ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56082	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Most Club, I'd like to refer to the newly adopted Regional Development and Parameters Act and the effects of that law by units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56083	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56084	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a ten-minute break to point out the problem that is happening in the city of Zagreb where the mayor unwarrantedly tolerates the debt of Konzum and Agrokor over 100 million kuna, and on the other hand in parts of the city where he could improve the infrastructure does nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56085	He's a third colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56086	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I want to talk about the final verdict against the Adicco Bank, which proves that the exit fees for the temporary payment of the loan are not legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56087	4. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56088	I'm looking for a break on the media blockade in the Croatian mainstream media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56089	5th fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56090	The implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56091	Thank you. She's a colleague of Juricev-Martinchev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56092	Thank you very much. Regarding the new indexation and the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56093	You got it. That's it, we have six requests for a break. We'll continue at 9.45 p.m. [[It's 9:00.33.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We continue our work, the first club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, last week we've been discussing one of the most important laws for regional development, so we've had changes and additions. The law when we discussed it, we didn't have any results, i.e. based on an index in which units of local self-government will belong, whether undeveloped and assisted or developed. And what we were saying during the debate that the amendment of the law was made cosmetically, purely populist to say here's something we did, that's what I said to the minister here, and that's why the MOST club didn't support this law, regardless of what we warned since 2014, I personally, in the area of Sinj, in the Cetina region, collected signatures because of an unfair amendment to the Regional Development Act that was adopted in 2014. The fact is that the day after the debate results were published on the Ministry's pages, so most of the Zadar hinterland, the Sibenik-Knin County, the Split-Dalmatia County, numerous cities of the local self-government of the Lika-Senj area, can be named for example. They've been declared developed. Zadvorje, Drniš, Škabrnja, Zemunik, Posedarje, Klis, Plitvice Lakes, Ogulin, Našice, Sinj. A particular problem with this new law, which is a cosmetic change, will be cities and municipalities from a mountainous and mountainous area that are not in the first 4 groups. The parameters are absolutely cosmetic, of six is just five years old, 1 is new. Why were no parameters of demographics, the value of land, the area of cities, and municipalities not introduced according to the number of inhabitants, the eviction of inhabitants? No, imagine Drnish has entered developed areas. An empty city. Burned earth. Lika-Senj County, Zadar hinterland, Sibenik-Kninska, Dalmatia Zagora by large. It's a shame to treat these areas where we send a message to young people, cities without infrastructure, without kindergartens, without the possibility of subsidising transportation to students and older people, without health services. Was this the message of this amendment to the law the tendency of survival, the tendency of demographic restoration? No, this was a message that in the next three years, even more young people will be emigrated, and the revision will show that there are no residents, and only then will we be developed, but then you put the last nail into the coffin of those parts. This is one measure that was adopted against demographics, demographic development, against messages sent by the President of the Republic and experts, from speakers that warn the predominantly ruling majority. You made this law worse than it was adopted in 2014 because it was only a day behind the discussion of the results of the groups in which they fell into undeveloped or developed at least embarrassing. So did one of us fellow MPs who supported this bill ask the minister what it was about? How do you explain to the Drnishans that they've been developed? How do you explain to the people of the Straight Wheels, the Zadar West, the Sibenik West, the likes of Slavonia that they've been developed? How do you explain to them, people in the 21st century don't have one major part or a water network with adopted settlements, let alone something else? I expect a new Regional Development Act to be adopted urgently, and I propose an initiative as soon as possible because this law is the last nail in a coffin for 2/3 of Croatia in areas of local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56096	We're going to the second club, the SDP and the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56097	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we called for this break to warn us that in Croatia or in the city of Zagreb, it still does not refer to public money or money that the city of Zagreb and Zagreb Holding should arrive properly and in a way that is transparently managed by the finances of the city of Zagreb. At this point I warned a little more than a month ago, the city of Zagreb is asking Agrokor, the entire holding company and Zagreb Holding is looking for 104 million kuna at this time. And almost nothing was done to charge that money, that the money that the city had fabricated or the Zagreb Holding had been made up to be used for what our citizens needed. Yesterday I was in Kozara Road, people in Kozara Road, settlements with over 10,000 inhabitants for Zagreb's Sands, no kindergartens or social homes or anything. With the 104 million Bandic tolerates Agrokor still, 10 kindergartens and several social homes could be built in Zagreb's neighbourhoods. And the question arises, why Milan Bandic does nothing to collect that money. Since April of this year, since the extraordinary administration was there, out of 120 million kuna, only 15 million kuna has been charged. Why does the City of Zagreb ignore the possibility of paying for this money? In other words, Konzum is a city gas station, 7.1 million in debt. And now the question arises, which is why when citizens of the city of Zagreb, when they owe for gas, their gas delivery is shut down, they start to do so. And why is Agrokor still being supplied with gas, even though it owes more than 7 million kuna for gas? Furthermore, it is also required to supply water and drain 2.8 million kuna, to the citizens of the city of Zagreb, when they do not pay the bill for water, the water is shut down, and the top is started. Agrokor still delivers water. So, on that side of town, there's every possible charge. No religious council of Ante Ramljak. Bandić, turn off the key, turn off the gas, turn off the water, so let's see if they will pay you the debts they had towards the City of Zagreb, i.e., Zagreb Holding or not. But, no, Mayor Bandic, that doesn't work with intent. He's not even trying to charge that money. In that regard, his efforts are evident from the fact that he was not charged for almost nothing. It's a very simple message. Bandic, stop funding Agrokor, if you've done it until April this year, you don't have to do it anymore. 'Cause you can tell you did it. And for this money Agrokor owes to the City of Zagreb, make kindergarten and social home in Kozara roads or there in those parts of the city where it is necessary. Don't make an idiot out of citizens. Do not deal with Hasanbegovic, where it will be and what it will be called this street or that street, because it does not interest the citizens, in this way it burdens you. They are interested, that Zagreb should be designated as an anti-fascist city, it is certain, but now they are most interested, how to age, kindergarten, school, social home for their needs. It is impossible that one Zagreb neighborhood, of the more than 10,000 inhabitants, Kozari put, has no kindergarten or school, and that Milan Bandic, on the other hand, is still financing Agrokor. And he has all the elements to make that money go away. Turn off their water and gas, and you'll see how fast that money pays. It is amazing that even Zagreb parking has a claim of over a million kuna. Citizens of the City of Zagreb, as soon as they don't pay the parking ticket, that moment, they get a ticket under their towel, i.e. a daily ticket, and it is obvious that Agrokor in Zagreb can park and do no invoices without paying them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56098	The third is next, the Living Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAG and respected counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56099	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have the latest ruling from Zadar, a verdict against Adico Bank, which has to pay the prosecutor 2504 euros, converted into kuna, plus a tight interest, because before the loan was paid, she charged the exit fee. So this is another confirmation that what I'm saying here is true and only true. I've said multiple times that the exit fees for the early payment of the loan were unlawfully agreed. And when we talked about the Housing Consumer Credit Act, I suggested that these exit fees be banned, not only for new loans, but for existing loans, in which these fees were agreed. There was no hearing from the owner to get rid of it, and here, the courts judge, that such, but agreed exit fees are illegal. Is it possible that only the judiciary in this country is doing its job properly? Interesting in this case is that the prosecutor, the criminal court in Zadar, the judge, Nižic Peroš. So Judge Nižic Peroš sued Adico Banka for returning the loan before the time, because the bank charged her with the exit fee that was agreed on. And I repeat, despite what's been agreed, it's illegal. And it's illegal because it's the Law on Mandatory Relations, Art. In 1024, the unequivocally prescribed return of only the remaining principal to early repayment of the loan. Any damage comes back. The damage, however, is something that is not allowed and cannot be negotiated in advance. Banks allow themselves, that something which is legally allowed to be charged only as damages, contracts in advance. And the CNB, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, say it is okay, banks have the right to do so. We are all here, and even we who are against it, because we are part of the Croatian Parliament, we allow banks to illegally drive Croatian citizens. Banks make billions of kunas on various fees. It's billions of kunas, which could end up in GDP, people would spend that money. But, no, we do stuff a fat goose in the form of foreign banks. And that fat geese, then that money is placed on its owners, located somewhere in Italy, Austria, France, Germany. So what kind of state are we? We're a modern country. We are not a servant state that opens the bank door wide, that takes money out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, to drive them illegally and nothing at all. So how long are we gonna work like that? How long? I'm asking you how far? I keep proving that what I'm saying is true, and that I prove it by means of judicial justice. The jurisprudences are on my side. We have a verdict in the collective court dispute that the banks have negotiated interest illegally and that they must no longer behave like that, not like that, not like that, not like that. However, the banks continued to act that way. No one ordered them to return illegally increased interest rates to the initial amounts. However, at the beginning of 2014, banks voluntarily, illegally and unnecessarily defined margins in over a hundred thousand loans. And the law I proposed, which received 78 signatures of support, did not go through, and that law would have stopped it once and for all. Are we the government? Are we the legislative authorities? What is a legislative authority if that legislative authority listens only to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia serves it. We're not the legislative authority, we're just voting machines. If that's what we're serving, then we don't need us at all, then it would be best if we were to sit at home and vote digitally and get some kind of diary for that vote. Because I really don't see the purpose of the existence of a legislative authority that doesn't have any authority in fact, the government of the Republic of Croatia has the Government, and the government of the Republic of Croatia has the Croatian National Bank, and over the Croatian National Bank, the government has banks that are illegally taking Croatian citizens. They took them on interest, took them on exit fees, and thanked the courts for doing their job well. The executive and legislative authorities are not doing their job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56100	We are going to the fourth club Independent for Croatia, respected colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56101	Dear colleagues, I would say that the truth about Croatia is becoming pure heresy. It doesn't just work these media blockades recently where websites, portals, etc. are blocked. And the only ones who have available Internet seem to be spreading their disinformation is this former privileged class, their heirs and those skilled liars. What's their tactics? Media, total media blockade. I'm not just talking about Internet wars. I speak in the meaning of the media. I've spoken here 50 times before that why don't we ask the right questions in this House? We're going around in circles, and it's all clear. Where's the pure analyst? 80% of their intelligence, global intelligence agencies are getting information from open sources. What would they get if they read the Croatian open source of information? Total disinformation, corruption, hiding the truth. If we don't wake up quickly, if we don't implement a quick reform of the judiciary, integrate the Croatian diaspora into economic social development, if we don't start quick, rapid reforms here, I don't like the word reform. It's from the former system. We know what happened to those five-year plans. Why do we have a dysfunctional state? We have other systems, look at other countries, and we're fighting here and we're talking about nebuloses. We're going round and round and round and repeat the same things about Agrokor, this, privatisation, etc. etc. Like this, what a stranger, here's the issue of the media blockade. Here recently was the collection of property in Croatia. That's the core of our problems is confiscation, nationalization. Here are hundreds of people from Split to Zagreb. On Istria media absolutely nothing. Here's what was read, if I had a history with a red book and my grandfather's apartment in Zagreb, I'd rather look into the future than the past. It's a catch 22 for the Croatian people, no analysis. What else do you have? Youth forum, Catholic University down. From the Baltic republics to Slovakia, to Croatia. Nothing in the media. Absolutely nothing. You have a press conference. Birth ideology as a secondary religion, the topic of debate has not come from any journalists. You have for the shame of our Croatia, you have also there I waved with this ponphlet here for the holodome, the greatest crime in Europe that has committed the great Stalji, and continued little Stalin here. No one's here. A pie for millions of Ukrainians killed by hunger. No one's here. There's no one here. Here's what's written about us outside. Here, here's to the Croatian public. The greatest battle of the Canadian army in history since the Korean War has been printed. What's the reaction? Total... diplomacy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's move on here with those tactics. Vesna Trcalic declared herself, presented herself as the Nobel Prize there in 2006. And she didn't mind taking money from a Dutch government criminal organization that's up to the age of 50, this isn't the past. They apologized to Indonesia in 2013 for hundreds of thousands killed in Indonesia, here. You have an article The Hague knew, Haag. What happened to Haag now? The Hague knew about these crimes. And they haven't paid off those people who killed in Indonesia down there yet, they haven't confessed, but they've waged a war down there. You have 261 items. A penal law in the Netherlands that prevents veterans from muddying, muddying their... An expedition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what do we have here? They condemn us there and tell us stories of international war law. Not to mention the English and the others. Here is for our representatives of the Serb minority, here is the seat today, and here are those who defend SFRY that criminal organization, has anyone from the Croatian public heard about the little nine-year-old girl Ivanka Milosevic. That doesn't interest Bauk, he reads there love messages, which was stabbed 64 times by an associate of UDBA's. He's in Belgrade now, Chicago in '77. He was killed by Dragiš Kashikovic in Chichag in the years of the anti-Communist's father. He was stabbed 64 times. And what about the Chevo family, etc.? Has anyone had the balls in Croatian media to go to Bjelovar and Mr. Maloch's path to what happened to these, our singer there, Andrija Conco. And ask these rescuers here who live here what happened to these people and who killed them? And finally, here's what the Croatian media is interested in? When an action was launched for Cetina in Ban Jelačić Square, this shirt was shared, the ecocid of the ecocid. And what were they interested in? If someone said we have to be home-ready, and now what? Ecocid And what about the ecocid of those in the coves down below, what SFRY has done, the most beautiful coves down, the gray economy, etc.? [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Glasnović.]] Nobody cares about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56102	Comrade Glasnović, thank you. We are going to the fifth debate of a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56103	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked for a break to mark today's constitutional law on the rights of national minorities that were passed exactly 15 years ago, so 13.12.2002. The Croatian Parliament voted that by a two-thirds majority, more precisely 115 votes, and here I have here and an extract of that vote. The vote was individual, there was no electronic vote at the time, and it was not the MPs who declared themselves from their seats but who came here for the pay phone and each of them pleaded whether he was for, abstention or against. The constitutional law was not the first constitutional law. The first constitutional law was passed also in December but in '91. and he was a constituent element of Croatian statehood, he was a condition for the recognition of the Republic of Croatia in the international community. The legal position of national minorities today is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees and protects minorities, guarantees them protection from discrimination and guarantees them national equality with all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the constitutional law which prescribes that minority rights are an indivisible part of the democratic order in the Republic of Croatia. When we look at national minorities, they have a large normative repertoire of rights, they have constitutional law and other rights, they have the right to political representation at all levels of government from national to local, they have the means of cultural autonomy provided, they have their institutions. But it's not enough to have laws, it's a very important political will, it's very important institutions that have to exist, act in the direction of implementing these laws, because I believe that the position of minorities should not be the least affected by the government's attitude towards minorities at both national and local level. The number of rights prescribed by the constitutional law have been difficult to apply for years in order to reach some level. At that time, there have been numerous resistances, mostly at local level, numerous violations of that right, and the constitutional law itself is far from perfect. It contains numerous institutes that are impractical, some institutes are even inconclusive, and all institutes that regulate minority rights contained in this law do not have coercion mechanisms, do not have sanctions in the event of their violation. If we take only the right to a proportionate representation in employment which is one of the worst problems when we look at the application of the constitutional law, then we see that these results are devastating. Last week I had a press conference in which I participated in the publication of research conducted by the National Minority Representatives Club, where, for example, Serbs in the state administration were represented with only 2.2%, so with about 50% of what they should do under the law. If we look at all national minorities in total, then that representation is below 50%, about 40%, which is even worse. When we joined the EU, we had a conditionality policy that produced positive effects until the moment of signing. When the ink on the accession treaty dried up at the top of public debates, messages of intolerance, hatred and even requests to limit the rights of national minorities surfaced. When we look at all that we have created through this conditionality policy and with regard to the regulation and exercise of the rights of national minorities, war crimes trials, refugee returns, reconciliations, the state of justice in all these areas, in fact, in recent years as a member of the EU, we have stopped and we have no longer shown any progress we have made in our accession. Finally, I would like to remind you that protection of minorities is guaranteed by the accession treaty, that the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to continue strengthening the protection of the rights of national minorities through effective implementation of the constitutional law. And I would say that as a representative of the national minorities, we want to live in an inclusive society where no citizen or citizen will feel excluded, marginalized and discriminated because it belongs to national minorities, and unfortunately it is still not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56104	Thank you. We are going to the last sixth debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56105	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. This morning, a pause was again requested to discuss a new indexation of local self-government units. Namely, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act that we adopted last week. This opportunity would once again underline these amendments and additions to the laws of as many as 51 units of local self-government will gain the status of an assisted area, which means it will be provided with assistance it has not had so far, which means that it corrects injustice against these cities and municipalities. It is true that 11 units of local self-government are falling out and that they will no longer have that status, but the Regional Development Act itself will not help us to have a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia and we cannot look at it alone. We must view it as a single set of laws such as the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, such as the Law on an assisted area, mountain-mounted areas and islands. We know that the Law on the financing of local self-government units has allowed as many as 1 billion and 400 million kunas to receive cities and municipalities that have not been acquired so far. We very much expect from the new Law on Supported Areas, which will certainly pay particular attention to these areas as well as the one on islands and the one on mountainous and mountainous areas. These 11 units of local self-government no longer have that status bar according to this regulation, which is also information that is still off the record since the indicators were their income, income per capita, unemployment and the like, above the average of the Republic of Croatia. On this occasion, I would congratulate these leaders, mayors, commissioners and their administrations for achieving such figures, however, for certain that those who are affected by the war deserve special attention and I am convinced that any regulation on assisted areas will give them the help they deserve from the Republic of Croatia. It should be said that this morning's law had no amendment, so I'm surprised that the opposition that was against that law did not try to correct that law with amendments and then be more quality and what they deserve. I am convinced of these laws that are yet to come into the parliamentary procedure to correct the injustices and that our Drnish will receive the merited assistance from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56111	He asked for the word Mr. Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56112	Thank you. If it means I'm talking about HRT, it means I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56113	Yeah. You've been looking for it before, and then you let it be replicas. Then I jumped you with my slip. So now if you want to speak right now, I'll give you the word even before the replica, but if you speak right now so we can continue with the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56114	You got it. I'll be right there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56115	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56116	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there are often issues in the media, or information that the Living Wall has no solutions or critics who say that – we have not heard of any solutions from the Living Wall. This false thesis is repeated from month to month, week to week, day to day. However, every few of us submit a new legislative proposal. Today we have handed over our 13th and amendments to the HRT Act that are being abolished by the RTV subscription. I must say once again, in this year's work in the Parliament, we have handed over over 60 amendments. This is our 13th legal proposal and our desire as a society is to accept what is good for all. So let's say there was a bill of law on the subject of RBA cooperatives, which let's say they're suspending the performance. We supported him. There was a proposal to cut taxes on used vehicles. We supported him. We don't mind. Any positive proposal for citizens we'll support. It will be soon, Silvano Hrelja of HSU suggested that the state compensate for lost funds to pensioners from the Royal pension insurance that has failed and we will support that. So the Living Wall is not sectarian-oriented left or right, but looks at good and bad suggestions from all sides. What's good is we'll always support it. Which we don't think is good for the citizens. Our Proposal for a Law on HRT abolishes the monthly fee and introduces the so-called some state grant for radio fusion services as already. The main thing is that the state is now directly financing HRTs with 0.7% of budget revenues, which will amount to 900 million kuna per year. So far, HRT has collected about a billion and 100 million kunas from that fee. Now the state benefits for this television will simply be paid in monthly points of that 900 million kuna per year. HRT funds are being negligiblely reduced. So they're shrinking by, say, 200 million kuna. We think there's room for those savings on HRT. The media often mentions suspicious contracts as millions. The fees that this HRT administration has are huge. The salaries paid by certain leaders such as Aleksandr Stankovic are also very high. And we believe that as a public service, rather than their private salaries should simply bring closer to the Croatian average because I say it is wrong to finance from the state without having enormous figures. It should also be noted that so far there have been as many as 100,000 executions per year, or on average he has sent 100,000 commissions annually to citizens. He sent TV incassors into surveillance and they're actually harassing people. This legislative proposal means that citizens are not only freed from HRT subscriptions, but also from these tasks. So this executive tsunami, the executive waterfall, 100,000 a year, stops, stops and saves people. When the campaign was pre-election, I remember at the time the representatives of Milan Bandic's party, or Milan Bandic himself, said they would advocate the cancellation of the TV subscription. I hope the representatives of his club support this proposal. And if they consider that HRT should be given more than 0.7% of budget revenues. So let's say 0.8 or 0.9 let's make an amendment. It is important that citizens be relieved of payment of HRT subscription. This proposal will show, in fact, how political parties breathe and whether or not they want to free the citizens from that obligation. What is quite certain is that, following this proposal, all the proposals that were and those that would come, no one can say that the Living Wall does not give concrete proposals and concrete changes to the law for the benefit of the citizens. It is our wish for the general public to understand it, which is our intention and why we are here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u56117	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64439	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate after the break and we move on to the agenda as I have already announced, the first point is: - The final draft law amending the Law on minimum wage, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 246 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. We would now like the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, respected Majda Buric. Here you go, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64440	Mr. President, I ask you to take note of our sharp protest that you did not include in the joint debate our proposal of the Minimum Payment Act, given that on the same day it was included in the procedure as the Government's proposal, that it would be the right place to discuss differences and, at the end of the debate, the majority to make a decision. That's why we're actually going to try to incorporate our proposals as amendments to this law. Thank you, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64441	Thank you, too. I've noticed. He would now ask State Secretary Majda Buric to address respected MPs and MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64442	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a law amending the Minimum Payment Act. The minimum wage law came into force on 30 March 2013 and was published in the National No. 39/13. The minimum wage law is subject to the regulation of the minimum wage system in the Republic of Croatia and in particular the way in which the minimum wage is determined, the deadlines of its establishment, as well as the exercise of supervision of the application of the provisions of the law. Minimum salary law defined as the minimum monthly gross amount of salary to be paid to the worker for full-time work. Since the law has been in force for more than 4 years and since it has been observed that there has been difficulties during this period in implementing a vague provision defining the minimum wage institute, these amendments suggest to remove the observed shortcomings of the law and have also requested common and all 4 union centres. The minimum wage Regulation for 2017 established the minimum wage amount was based on the minimum wage of 3 276 kuna. According to the general data for 2016, based on the JPY form, Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, the total number of workers who received minimum wage is 76 404 workers. In addition, according to the available data from the Labour Inspectorate for the period from 1 January to 1 September 2017, labour inspectors carried out a total of 11 567 inspection controls and against employers to competent law enforcement courts submitted 1,801 of the indictment. Most of the administrative measures adopted concerned employers’ orders to deliver the payment of the debt rather than salaries paid while the most frequently established infringements concerned the non-reporting of workers on compulsory pension and health insurance and the non-payment of the minimum wage prescribed to workers, namely the non-payment of the minimum wage prescribed by law in inspection controls found that employers had not paid a minimum wage for 3 977 workers and it was also found that the employers had not provided the bill of the due and not paid salaries, salaries or compensation for 3 315 workers within the prescribed period. With respect to the above information, it is concluded that an emergency measure should be taken to remove these negative indicators described. This law therefore proposes to amend Article 2 of the Law, which defines minimum wage in such a way as not to increase the amount of minimum wages for overtime, night work, work on Sundays, work on holidays or another day for which the law stipulates that it is not working. It is also more clearly defined that the minimum wage of workers working part-time is determined and paid in due time. Therefore, by supplementing this legislative provision, workers will exercise the right to increase, which guarantees them overtime, night work, work on holidays, etc. In addition, it should be pointed out that, in addition to the above, the amendments to the law will not affect the competitiveness of employers, i.e. it will not increase the risk of layoff of workers, for reasons, which are also proposed to reduce the base, for the calculation of contributions, based on 50%. The reduction does not apply to a worker, who is also a member of the company’s management, or an executive director of a company or a cooperative manager. In order to prevent possible abuses, the following is prescribed, the right to reduce the base of 1.1.2018 has all those workers, who for the month of December 2017 had a minimum wage contracted, which is as I said more 76404 workers. So, found workers, and at the moment of the contract, more pay than minimum. In addition, it is prescribed for workers who did not work in December or workers who had a contracted salary higher than minimum in 2017 and during 2018 is changed by a minimum wage contract that is minimum wage and lower, down by 50%. It will be possible to apply, but only after a 12 month period, from the date of the contract, the establishment or prescribing of a minimum wage. In fact, if a minimum wage contract is concluded with a worker, e.g. 15.1.2018, a reduction in the contribution of those 50% to that salary may begin only 15.1.2019. So, after the past, 12 months of time. Therefore, in order for the employer to exercise the right to a prescribed benefit, it is important that the worker was contracted, established or prescribed salary for a month’s work, up to the minimum wage or minimum wage amount, and then 12 months apart. With it not relevant, whether it is one or more employers. And such a right is exercised by the employer, to contract, to determine or prescribe wages, which is higher than minimum. The basic idea or purpose of the decommissioning measure is directed towards all employers who pay workers, minimum wages, regardless of the sector. In addition, it should be noted that by prescribing the increase, on salary, which does not come into the minimum wage, which is an increase for overtime, as I have already said, night work, work on Sundays, holidays or some other day which is prescribed not to work, for the first time, the derogation to this law, on minimum wage, is defined in a very clear way, that the minimum wage for 76404 workers does not only grow by the percentage, i.e., the amount established by the minimum wage Regulation, but also for the required increases, if the same workers are entitled. The fiscal effect, which has been implemented in the maximum amount, and in addition, in the end, I would like to point out that the Committee on Law, proposed one amendment, is a nom of technical nature, where, instead of applying the terms, i.e., the syntagma, apply, replace words, is realised, i.e. the worker and that is the amendment that the Government accepts. Here, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64443	I thank the secretary of state. We have eight replicas. First up, dear colleague Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64444	Dear President of the Parliament, Reverend Mrs. Buric. The absence of a minister in the Croatian Parliament today shows that he doesn't care about the poor woman, who receives 2700 kn, who can't buy her children a warm meal and often goes to bed hungry to feed her children. That's his relationship about not being here today. We must make it very clear, this law does not raise minimum wage, because it does not say anything in the law. It will continue to be a charity of the government's regulation. The second thing, by this law, you punish employers who paid higher wages. And you're rewarding the employers who paid and will continue to pay the minimum wage, that church girl. This law is another one in a series of government measures, which kidnaps, from the poor, to give to the rich, as well as the collection of electricity, which you announced would not be, so you spent it. This law also takes, from the health contribution of 250 million kuna and thus further endangers the health system, where the poor, waits several months for the review. This law further encourages eviction from Croatia, which last year left 50,000 people, including many doctors, doctors and many medical staff, who will also be left without it by applying this law and by taking from the health system. And the only way to really raise the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is to support our proposal, that the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is 60% of the average salary, the letter and the number written in the law, and not like you did, not to write it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64445	Thank you. Replication response, secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64446	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Bernardich, I hope you didn't say you were very sorry that I was here today. So it's that this is a very responsible government and we're thinking about everything, so we're very, very worried about minimum wage. I would just like to remind you that you have provided a lot of data, and I would like to remind a little of chronology that in the period from 2013 to 2106, the minimum wage total was raised by 135 kuna, while only in one year, so from December 2016 to the 17th, it increased by 319 kuna, which is more than 100% compared to all the years before. In addition, the minimum wage set by our Minister Pavic is aimed at reaching 50% of the average wage. In addition, what I would like to stress on this occasion is that this law reduces employers by 104 kunas to their contributions, while the labourer regulation will increase 163 kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64447	Second replica, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64448	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I have a question for you. In Chapter II of your proposal, point 1 of your proposal states: “The total number of workers who received a minimum wage or below was 76404 workers. This applies, of course, to this current minimum wage of 3276 in gross. According to your proposal, the increase in gross amounts is increasing by 163 kuna and 80 limes. Do you have any information on this, so within those 163 kuna and 80 limes, so between this old and the new number of people there are now going to be on the new minimum wage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64449	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64450	Dear Mr Sinčić, therefore data on 76404 workers who are currently receiving minimum wage is based on a JOPPD form and this is a form used by the Tax Administration, the Central Insurance Register so that the data are verified by the basis of the JOPPD form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64451	Let's go to the third line, dear fellow Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64452	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, or Secretary of State Buric, you mentioned some, a few things above all that should be apostrophe, of course, except for the increase in minimum wages where I think no one in this country is against and should not. Of course she's not nearly enough of what our people need to ensure for our people to live decently. Of course, the market is both labour and labour forces that must define both through purchasing power and through the very economy the height of pay. We have a situation today that regardless of this increase, especially what I would welcome and this part about overtime that does not enter and work, night work and holidays etc. We have a situation where from my neighborhood not only Osijek, but the entire county, Osijek-Baranja and Slavonia and Baranja people receive up to 40 to 50% net for the same job and even in the same company elsewhere in Croatia. In particular, a saleswoman in one chain of bakeries in Osijek receives 3,000 to 3 and a half thousand kunas, and the same saleswoman, say, in Pula, receives 5. Why? Because the price if we want to say one product is 7 kuna, and there's 10 or 11. Why? Because that's where people can afford 11 kunas. Same analogy happens to us why people go out. So this is absolutely something to say hello to. That's not enough, of course. People ask me the other day what are we going to do with all that money with 100 kuna? So you said go, I don't know about skiing, of course. I mean, it can't mean, it's not too much, but of course, every year, you can't suddenly make a jump just to protect our investors and those who have made certain investments, you've had their own plans about the price of the work. So we welcome this measure, but we certainly need to look at the overall picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64453	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64454	Dear colleague Mr. Curai, here it is, I would just like to comment that both trade unions and employers have agreed on the additions of this minimum wage law, that this is a step forward. I mentioned just before how the minimum wage grew from 2014 to 2014 and I will remind you once again that within one year from December 16th to December she grew by 319 kuna while in all previous periods she grew by 135 kuna. In addition, when it comes to workers who receive the lowest wage especially of workers who work in the leather, textile, wood industry, etc. I would just like to stress that since January 2018, a project will be launched that will address the promotion, i.e. the retention of workers in employment, in these industries which are particularly endangered, and where many women work. So that part will really be in our focus and still be. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64455	Let's move on with the replicas. Now it's my dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64456	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Buric, we don't really know what the effects of this law will be. I agree with my colleague Curaj that we can all agree on that to those who have the lowest incomes should raise their salary. However, when we talk about the amount of all those supplements that are paid on pay, there is one danger, for example, in the case of transport workers, where instead of increasing their wages, they are paid a field allowance, say when lines are more than 30km and of course that field supplement does not go to either contributions, for pension, or for health losses of the state, loses and workers at the end. Perhaps by increasing wages, this law too will cause such a practice to increase. And another thing I want to warn you about as a minister, there are such entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, I don't know if you know it, if they know the inspection services that pay the worker minimum wage, and then the worker returns some of the money to the employer. I don't know if you've heard of such things and how much the Labour Inspector is actually doing on that matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64457	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64458	Your Honor. Regarding the case of payment of other receipts which workers will now receive in terms of supplements on top of minimum wages because we have very clearly defined now what the minimum wage is and what is paid on top, so on holidays, we are talking about overtime, etc., in the case of payment of other receipts, employers will have to do special accounts and thus report to the Tax Administration, and in this way they will be able to know at any time the amount of the receipt at which the reduced basis for calculating the contribution is applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64459	The next replica, the esteemed Marco Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64460	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear Secretary of State. Well, here's what you said was that the Ministry's intrinsic goal is to reach a minimum wage ratio of 50% of the average salary. Now I really don't see how we're going that way with this measure. Because look, our minimum is left at the same amount as it was, so we're left with 42.9%, so we're just keeping the standard here, we're not even talking about any increase and reaching these goals. So we have the slowest minimum wage growth in the EU except for Greece, a standard of purchasing power that eliminates price differences between countries and equalises the cost of living is weaker today in Croatia than in Romania. So in Romania with their salary you can buy more goods, services or whatever you can do today in Croatia. So we know that in 2018, a minimum wage less than the Croatians will earn only about a dozen countries. But this is the key, how will the young people stay if they know that what they earn here can't pay even the most basic cost of life? And I'm going to finally look back at what you mentioned... that you're going to make some kind of selective approach to the textile industry, according to the leather industries, I can welcome it, even though it's not the subject of this debate right now, since I'm coming from Krapina-Zagorje County from a region that is highly dependent on these industries and unfortunately this measure is not going to help her at all. The textile industry needs one real aid from the state, and this is not such a measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64461	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64462	Your Honor, Mr. Veligaj. You mentioned and reiterated that the goal is for these governments to reach 50% of the minimum wage on average. I would just like to mention the chronology related to that share, it was 37% in 2013, and it was 37% in 2015 to 37% in the minimum wage share, so from 2013 to 2015. In 2016 it was 40% in 2017. 41.69% while in 2018 it grew to 42.9% and that indeed the target is 50% of the minimum salary compared to the average salary. And regarding purchasing power, I would also like to stress that it is very important to look at minimum wage through the standard of purchasing power. So the minimum wage in EU Member States with relatively lower prices becomes relatively higher when they show up in this particular purchasing power standard and vice versa, minimum wages in Member States with relatively higher prices become relatively lower when they set themselves into the purchasing power standard, so that the very differences between minimum wages are shown and watched through purchasing power become much, much different and much less. And you yourself know that in all Member States there is a minimum wage to move between 40 and 50% and that Croatia is somewhere in the middle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64463	We're going to the seventh line, dear colleague Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64464	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Buric. It should be reminded of what minimum wage is, 130 kuna on that amount that is none, small and cannot live on is really nothing. We wanted what Marco said we wanted stronger minimum wage growth dynamics, you didn't accept that you're only going with 130 kuna and that's not enough. That's the first thing. The second thing is, you're setting 130 kunas higher salary for workers who are minimally in this way, while giving entrepreneurs a discount of 260 kuna at the same time. You take 250 million kunas at an annual level from the health system, a system that is in a difficult crisis, which at the moment, everyone is talking about it 8.5 billion dubiosis, and there is no way to solve it, there is no reform, there are no steps at all that promise the future of the health system in Croatia, so completely illogical and unreal. And I'm not telling you that in just a year's time, Croatia will be burdened by these people who live on the minimal and all those who are close to the minimal will be burdened by the speculative behavior of entrepreneurs who will make use of this measure and where, in a year's time, this number of 76,000 will continue to grow, I'm telling you that if you insist on this measure because it is that. And in these 76 thousand people we need to know, there are those who objectively because of the industries that are simply leaning on those small salaries that normally work but there are also a large number, so those birds on the branch already know, where they speculatively behave entrepreneurs, give minimum wage, and then pay on black and on hand some small amounts more. And that's Croatia's problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64465	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64466	Thank you. Dear Mr. Greek MP, I will mention once again that both employers and trade unions have agreed that this minimum wage law is a step forward, so plus 163 kuna for a worker who receives minimum wage and minus 104 kuna in contributions to employers. In addition, I would also like to emphasise that our Minister Marko Pavić announced in early 2018 the establishment of a special working group that will gather representatives of all relevant resolutions, social partners, relevant stakeholders and experts who will now analyse the detailed minimum wage system in the Republic of Croatia for the task and propose new optimal solutions for future overall settlement of both minimum wage definitions and defining the way of dynamics of its work. And that would be that for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64467	Let's move on, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64468	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. We at HSS disagree with this bill, it's commendable and that when you talk to them they'll say that, I could use those 130, 140 kuna pay raises. However, the fact is that it cannot be lived with, such wages cannot be lived in Croatia. I asked you now, when you're making a state budget, could you live by 2,620 and 2,750, as much as you should be with these increases? And I argue this with data that can be found online that the union basket of living expenses, meaning those minimum in Croatia for the four-member family is 6 774 kuna. Minimum cost, living, no education, no other needs that people have. The increase in what you've now predicted by this law is too little at this point. We asked it to be at this point at least 50% of the average salary in Croatia. It's about 40% right now. While in Slovenia 55.2 is in Bulgaria 56%. In the last 10 years, the minimum wage in Croatia has increased 19% and in Slovenia 69%. So why don't we follow those infection trends? And then with previous tax changes, you took units of local self-government from income tax because you increased the non-taxable base, so you gave nothing but took units of local and regional self-government and now you take health care that has a lack of money anyway and will again reduce the availability of health care to those people who can't pay for their lives and let alone some extra health care. Please understand that I am saying this because of these people living on the edge of poverty and who can't live, which is why most of them are moving out of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64469	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64470	Dear Mr. Vlaovic, yes, I know a lot of colleagues and friends who live on 2,620 kunas and I know very well how difficult life and survival and great struggles are, I know them. In addition, you mentioned Slovenia as our neighbor where the minimum salary is 805 euros, but when we talk about it, I would really like to appeal that we are then looking at the standard of purchasing power. So, the overall situation in which we are located and then the overall situation is the following, let's say in Slovenia it's about 30 meters square, and the meter square apartment for purchase is about 2,200 euros, so I'd really like to talk about the standard of purchasing power that, in that sense, is an extremely important parameter. You also mentioned tax reform, I would just like to add that tax reform has brought good results, after a year we see that it has charged entrepreneurs, citizens of the Republic of Croatia with 2.5 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64471	We have another replica, we haven't seen it in the beginning, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64472	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, if I didn't say you were lying, I'd like you to show me a piece of paper saying the unions agreed to this law. Therefore, when you make statements, make the correct statements. As far as I know, the unions disagreed with this law, and they made it very clear to issue and to have a letter from Mr. Novosel from the largest centre in which he is very clearly protesting that the cost of minimum wages is transferred to the health system. On the other hand, you forgot to talk in your replica about what was between 2008 and 2013 with a minimum wage that was frozen? Yes, the government of Social Democratic raised the minimum wage as much as it could, and that's worth 200 percent compared to yours now because it was the time of the recession when the salaries fell. On the other hand, I'd like to answer a few questions. One thing you said now is that the leather and textile industries will have additional incentives, which means that they will have double benefits about minimum wage, so they will have fewer contributions and still have some additional incentives. And on the other hand, answer the question of what happens to a company that gets into trouble, which goes to the minimum, and they all agree to go to the minimum, but they won't be able to use a 50% smaller base, which would be extremely important to them to survive that year. Which with the new company starting, which would also be, well if it had 50% less contributions, they would have to pay full contributions. What about those companies that pay for 1 kuna more minimum wage, they'll have to pay full contributions? So this law has a lot of concerns and it will not raise the minimum wage, because the minimum wage raises the regulation, not the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64473	Thank you, thank you, buddy. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64474	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mrs., first of all, I would like to point out that both employers and trade unions have agreed, that is, one step forward, which they have spoken publicly, and I believe we have all heard that. In addition, after consultations, with the social partners, on minimum wage levels, for 2018. In November 2017, and given that the social partners did not reach a consensus on the level of minimum wage, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, while respecting the arguments of the social partners, it proposed that the minimum wage for 2018 be paid. amounting to €3439, which is a 5% increase compared to last year, i.e. €163, which means that the minimum wage will... The average salary this year is 42.9%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Besides, I'd like to mention this part, the insurance mechanism, so, 12 months, why 12 months? That's why, to prevent any abuse. So it is that the employer, who will be able to use 50% of the relief, must have a satisfactory prerequisite, that workers, 12 months consecutively, received minimum wage, whether the employer is the same or is changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64475	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the boards. I see colleague Gordan Maras, chairman of the Labour Committee, pension system and social partnership. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64476	Thank you very much, Mr. President, immediately at the start as chairman of the Labour Committee, pension system, I protest that there is no Minister of Labour Mr. Pavic here, who thus showed what he thinks of 76404 employees in Croatia who are on a minimum salary, he shook his hand on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64477	Comrade Maras, wait a minute, Comrade Maras. This is your position and position of your party. You here now speak on behalf of the board, therefore, in which all MPs sit, all MPs from all parties, and I ask you not to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64478	I'm sorry. I only, as board president, had to express my position to protest that Minister Pavic ignored 76,000 people. It's very important to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64479	Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64480	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament at the 25th session held on 12.12. discussed the proposal of the Law amending the Minimum Payment Act, with the final draft law, which was sent to the President of the Parliament by the Croatian Government, act of 7.12.2017. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article. 83. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as parent working body. The Committee held written remarks from an independent Croatian union on that act. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative, Mrs Guric, pointed out that the proposed law complements the provision, which defines the minimum wage, in a way that is also clearly prescribed, that the amount of minimum wages is not taken up for overtime. This is the regulation of the newspaper, so that there is no increase in the salary that belongs to the worker for night work, work on Sundays, holidays, or any other day for which the law requires that no work be done. In a clear way, workers' rights, which work in part-time, are also prescribed on a proportionate part of the minimum wage, in accordance with the agreed working time, in order to avoid misreading the law and its illegal application in practice. The minimum wage amount for the period from 1.1.-31.12.20118 would also be fixed at a gross amount of €3439 and 80 June respectively. In a comprehensive debate, the following comments, opinions and proposals, which I hope will help representatives in the Croatian Parliament, make their debates as high as possible. Therefore, all participants agreed that a higher minimum wage should be increased, however, the opposition causes a lack of clearly prescribed mechanism and transparency to increase the share of minimum wage than the average salary. That's clearly what the unions said. In the opinion of the union representative, there is a lack of definition of minimum wage, i.e. The proposed law lacks a goal. Furthermore, the proposed compensatory measures are more in favour of employers than in the contribution of workers. In their view, it is necessary to prescribe the harmonisation of minimum wages in relation to price increases, goods and services. Also, the opposition also causes a lack of clearly prescribed dynamics, which would provide 60% of the minimum wage share in the average salary, in a way that ensures a gradual increase over each calendar year. Despite the shortcomings, the participants agree in the debate that the passed law is a step forward in terms of a minimum wage increase. In the debate, representatives of the union said that when the law was drafted, there was no agreement between the social partners, and there was no full analysis by sectors. The opinion, under which compensatory measures were proposed for employers, was given a good and useful opinion. The debate has repeatedly highlighted that the large disproportionateness in the distribution of employers relative to the increase in the minimum wage for workers is around 130 kn net on the monthly level. A team more because continued economic growth is currently in part in the Republic of Croatia. There are also indications that there are minimum wage abuses in some activities, where high profits are generated year after year and minimum salaries are paid to workers. For example, in sectors that are as serviced as security guards and drivers. At the end of the debate, the proposing presidents presented a short chronology of minimum wage growth in 2013 to date, stressing that around 32000 employers paid minimum wage for 76404 workers. She further informed the board that the resolution ministry is looking for solutions to help the wood, leather and textile industries sector. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by a majority vote of 7 for, 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the Law amending the Minimum Payment Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64481	Let's go to the hearing now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64482	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. It's about serious law. The law is short and clear, on that side good. But the law said a lot, but he didn't say everything and that's the problem. My colleague Maras now on behalf of the board seems to have touched on me all the key problems of this law that the union representatives have actually said. However, if we go in any order, everyone will agree and I, of course, consider it so, and so do my colleagues at the club that any increase in wages, the lowest wages, so people who have an existential minimum to express myself on the basis of their work is welcome and there is no speech. Needs pay, minimum needs to be increased. Then what's the problem? In Parliament, we often complain to MPs, and even the prime minister here said that the debates are not at the level we should be at. And now we can sometimes also say that proposals or legal proposals that come from the government often also have such a level that is not actually worthy of the coming of the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64483	Just a little colleague Sagar. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, you are very noisy and colleague Sagar cannot speak and please that if you want to talk you do it outside the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64484	Thank you, Mr. President. So, what is missing from this legislative proposal, which would certainly be good, and that is an assessment of the effects of the regulations or of this law, of course, by respecting that the law goes according to an urgent procedure and that time does not have much. Why does it matter? We could imagine a meeting that probably or maybe really happened where the Prime Minister said the next let's raise the minimum wage, so it's convenient like this and it's politically convenient, it's wise. So how much for? Well, we can't go 4.99. Let's raise 5% of the gross salary. So the Minister of Labour, we ask the Minister of Labour how many of these people there are, what would that look like. Well, he said there's 76,000 and something, so when we figure it out, it would cost so much. Then, of course, the Minister of Economy Dalic said so, and what would the entrepreneurs say about it. Well, let's do it a little bit, so let's get them out of these taxes, actually contribute to health care, cut to half, contribute to employment, and then we'll sort of put it all together and then eventually Minister Maric doesn't know he's out of the meeting or not. But then he called the prime minister and said Zdravko give it to you now a little bit of that hole patch, 220 million kuna in the budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. And here it is already pointed out that we in the health system have big problems and a big hole to cover. Now I'm saying, we can imagine a date like that, maybe he did happen. But it's a story about this law. What are the things, before I move on to this particular data side of this exposure that things are, they get in the eyes? First of all, this law will not increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It's clear to everyone. We have a situation to increase the minimum wage, actually the basis for the calculation we help people in one part of their incomes. At the same time, however, we are putting them in danger of losing their jobs. Here's an example of what happened to Germany. The increase in minimum wage in Germany in 2015 cost Germany 60,000 jobs. After increased minimum wages, most companies hired fewer new workers, slowed down their growth. About a quarter of the companies have increased the price of their products. During each increase, caution should be exercised and the labour market should be taken into account. We, of course, can't compare with Germany by many indicators, but that doesn't mean that the effects can't happen with us. The minimum wage institute actually has a great impact and great sense in developed economies. In the less developed he doesn't have that much, he won't get that many results. So what was right and what should be in the bill of this law to see, in fact, what is the structure of the Croatian economy and what, to which workers, in which sectors of industry or entrepreneurship this law will act the most. If we see that, according to the data on small entrepreneurship, the highest profit is achieved according to the number of employees. In middle entrepreneurship, we even have losses. In large businesses we have profits, but of course you know why we have profits because there is a large amount, a large number of workers in large companies. So then she added the value to be multipled. But ultimately, we can conclude that in the Republic of Croatia we have a lot of companies and a lot of products that have little added value. And in this sense, laws or legislative proposals should be built to allow for the rise of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and it is certainly not the Ministry of Labour that goes with this law. First of all, there's the Ministry of Economy. But what's going on with this bill? The Ministry of Labour wants to encourage entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and this is how it separates itself from the health system. And there's the problem. That's where we see the problem. And then a provision shall be adopted according to which Article 1(5) shall be made. ‘The right referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall apply to a worker who, for a period of 12 months consecutively, had a contracted or prescribed minimum wage or to a minimum salary before the date of the reduction of the base.’ That means reducing these contributions by 50%, and that's where we see the problem. What about all the ones here is the textile industry, the woodworking industry, what about all those entrepreneurs who, under the conditions of low competitiveness, tried to increase their wages anyway? They will not be covered by this legislative proposal, in other words they will be punished if they have tried to keep their salary above minimum wage levels and that is certainly not a good solution. By the end of the debate, we will propose an amendment that we would like to include those entrepreneurs who kept their salary at a level less than or equal to the minimum wage proposed by this legislative proposal, to at least partially correct this injustice. What should also be pointed out is that the adoption of this law is on a two-week schedule after the adoption of the State budget for 2018. And now the question arises if the revenues of the state budget fall by 24 million kuna, although here and in the interpretation of the law it seeks to stress that it is a small drop, but watch out for 24 million kuna means 4 sports halls in Slavonia, and consolidated for an additional 220 million kuna, of course it means HZZO. What has actually happened these 13 days since the vote? Why wasn't it known before the budget was voted so that it could be installed? I don't know, in the end I can only conclude on behalf of the club, we don't understand the purpose of this law. it will certainly increase some of the minimum wage for workers, but we do not know what other effects will cause in entrepreneurship in that there is a danger that many or some workers will lose their jobs, which is, above all, a greater danger than the risk of getting lower wages. And just maybe in the end, let's give some more pictures of how it's defined in some countries. The Czech Republic has lower legal salary minimum salary than the Republic of Croatia, but has a higher average salary. Turkey has a higher legal minimum wage than the Republic of Croatia, and 200 euros lower average salary. Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Switzerland, Iceland interestingly Scandinavian and generally northern countries that often stand out as an example of the social economy do not at all have a legally defined minimum wage, and the average salary compared to the Republic of Croatia is without substance debate. Today, it somehow concluded that in the debate, we will also have amendments to the Law on Professional Education and if we observe and on that side, and I am sorry that the law does not say, which are workers who receive the most minimum wage. It's mostly workers with lower, NSS or without qualifications. As a rule, workers with VSS get higher salaries. Maybe, it's just my impression, maybe it would get a lot more if the government of the Republic of Croatia had since the next school year declared compulsory high school education, maybe it would have been more effective than this law. So this law mainly refers to lower salaries for workers with lower professional qualifications and can really happen that they lose their jobs. Because what is the employer's motive for acting on the market? The motive is his profit, so she earned a profit. If he assesses that a certain worker cannot make that profit, he will be fired. And in that sense, I think that this legislative proposal finally approached the government's position on a partial basis, but as far as the minimum wage increase itself is concerned, we can't, we don't have a choice but to support this law, by submitting the amendment, I say it refers to 12 months to all those employers who paid for it, but at the height of now proposed, not the salary that it was. I think that's reasonable, and I hope the Proposer accepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64485	I thank my colleague Sagar for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about a minimum wage now about the legal increase in minimum wage, unfortunately as far as employment is concerned, until we reach standards that have a much more underdeveloped state than we do, which we consider to be the minimum wage so many workers in the Republic of Croatia don't pay because all laws are essentially against workers and workers, and we know that pay is something sacred that a man has earned, so we have a number of companies and other laws that don't suit workers, they don't, but are against workers, as they are. The bankruptcy law where different creditors are charged, always short-sleeve workers. We can list numerous workers in Dalmatia wine, we can list the Designer, we can list Kamensko, Sinjska Dalmatinka, who is in bankruptcy and numerous other companies in essence while we reach the standards until we reach them will be our Croatian worker in Ireland, Germany and other countries. It was all done in a way to damage workers and workers, and the Croatian worker was recognised in the world, and the policies implemented led to the fact that we no longer have workers to go to other countries. And those who are at the Bureau also fear whether this is how the law against workers is continued, against areas that have not been developed, against economies that have no advantage in undeveloped areas, as has been adopted by the Regional Development Act. So you don't mean the worker, you don't mean the demographic picture, and you don't mean the rest of those people in Croatia. Everything here has been done against the workers, since the robbery in privatisation and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64487	Thank you, dear colleague Buljo, for the answer of my colleague, Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64488	Dear fellow Bull, when someone says he's rich in work, ask him whose. So it's not even working here that we apriori need to have a negative relationship with employers because the vast majority of them are trying to survive on this market and they're trying really to be fair and correct. But what you said is that we're being followed by a period of transition, a privatisation that was a robbery, all those entrepreneurs who are rubbing their hands today, and they're only successful because they exist with the state, they're hoarding profits and they're not paying off workers. This is the problem of the Croatian economy, but what the government needs to warn about is the level of competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Here we need to see how this can be improved so that eventually the wages of the workers will be higher. We have a situation, we can close our eyes now, 80 billion kuna is reported through a pre-war settlement, 80 billion kuna total claims by various companies. It's accepted 50 billion. We have 17 billion blocked business accounts, we have 40 billion blocked citizens, we have Agrokor. It is the structure of the Croatian economy. And that's why I say the government would be fairer if it all led to this work to see what the Croatian economy actually looks like and what it will be done with these workers who are in the companies that are in the pre-profit settlement, how it will be realised that they will get the salaries they have earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64489	I would like to thank my colleague, Žagar, the next replica of my colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please come in. I would ask my colleague Lovrinović not to interfere with my colleague Sincic because he can't hear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64490	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, my replica refers to the very amount of minimum wage. So we know we're reducing the base by this and what about those, in your opinion, who are now receiving kuna, 3, 4, 5 or 10 kunas more than minimum wage? Will their employer deliberately tear that salary down to a new minimum to save on the contribution?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64491	I would like to thank my colleague Sincic, my colleague Sagar's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64492	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Sincic, very briefly, there is, of course, a danger that this is exactly what is going to happen, we will propose that the amendment not take 12 months of this salary that has been minimal but newly proposed, precisely so that those who have worked so far and such employers who have tried to pay more than minimum wage, too, to get into these reliefs. And if someone is going to cut to minimum wage now just to get into this procedure to get a relief is a whole other question. He'll have to do it for 12 months then keep on that minimum wage but that danger exists. As the laws are generally played with us, I also warned the secretary of state, believe it or not, there are employers who pay minimum wage and that day the worker takes 500 kuna, raises from the account and carries back the employer. And in general, we have a problem with the gray economy, that's what the Croatian economy presents, and there the government needs to do a lot more and in the power of the inspector and not in the way that it is now done. I'm saying, she warned the President of the Republic not to punish what is 5 or 10 kuna more in the register, but to reveal the real malfeasance and everything that is not good, which leads ultimately to a setback, not to an attack on the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64493	I thank my colleague, Sagar. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64494	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar, you mentioned a few things in your presentation, first of all you compared something about Germany, of course no comparison can be directly withdrawn but that part of the intensity that you wanted to say that we should certainly rely on the labour market itself. Unfortunately, it will happen whether we want to or not. If someone tries to play this law, we can't go apriors that they're all criminals, that they'll all work against the law, out of some gain, pay off at the hands of workers, but we can't stay blind again that it's not possible, that it's not happening today. But in the labour market, it will happen to us that all those who can leave and because of such things will go away, those who cannot manage under new economic conditions and provide workers with a higher salary for them to stay, they will fail. And that's the part that we have to indirectly influence. Yeah, a minimum wage increase, absolutely, 76,000 people, that's about 10 million kuna a year, 2 million kunas of VAT. Yes, we also disburse the burden of the state budget of certain employers in the amount of about 100 kuna per worker, so now the one who has 100 workers can do it very well, it is 120,000 kuna per year more space to maybe just increase the salaries of these workers not to leave them because people are leaving us. I mentioned a situation like that in Slavonia, people leave for Zagreb first, for better... Croatia, and now they're going out of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is what we must certainly look at in one comprehensive measure. This is absolutely yes, this is a good intensity and of course it should be supported but it won't solve all our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64495	I thank my colleagues Curaju. Come in, Mr. Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64496	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Curaj, thank you for this replica because it is, in my opinion, crucial. The minimum wage institute itself will not solve any problem of the Croatian economy even the problem of workers. You see, in my county there were two companies dealing with the same area of action and today they're famous, of course this one is known for a negative context, and I'm going to mention it because the collapse of the Gai companies from Slatina from the wood processing industry has failed, the other one of the wood companies from Virovitica has survived. The manager or the man who was responsible, the director, exclusively based the company's survival on competition, based on a lower labour price, and therefore the company survived. We in Croatia must go through a variety of encouraging measures, through which the Ministry of Economy needs... to increase competitiveness to be as much added value as possible then we will have no problems with minimum wage. So with products that are low competitiveness, low added value we have these very problems and then we have to talk about minimum wage. And the other thing, we have to do everything completely we're saying we won't go back to the floscules of knowledge and everything, but our education system has to do everything to make it live. Yesterday, I also proposed to Minister Dalic, she said it would adopt the possibility of investing private money in education and science. When we allow private money to be invested in education and science, we will have great progress and you will see that this is the right way for the Croatian economy to recover and move towards a better one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64497	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64498	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have a minimum wage law in front of us, I'd say that's a step forward, but it's a step in relation to all the things that need to be fixed and done in this country and it's crumbs of crumbs. When I was thinking about this law the first question I asked myself is, how do we get a family to take a four-member who is a consumer basket that we know about how much it is, how can it survive with two minimum wages? The conclusion is very simple, it can't possibly. If we know and compare the numbers we have, if we compare 76,000 people who are now working for a minimumer, for the current minimumer, if we add about 10,000 more people who haven't received the salary at all, the Labour Inspectorate says here, so we have some 85 thousand workers, compare it to 330 thousand blocked. I wonder, how many of those workers are in those 330,000 blocked? Many. We have 200 thousand children below the poverty line, how many of these children are from those families whose parents either did not receive their wages or did not work or worked for a minimumer. Let's compare 200 grand to 86 grand. If we know that many of them are under the covers we have 40 billion total debt of the citizens of natural persons waiting for one day to be completed a lot of it will never be because there's just nowhere to charge from, if we know that many of our fellow citizens who work for minimum wage are struggling with the end of the day barely, to be pressed by the director, HRT, the plumbing, the gas that some have to save in the summer to be able to pay for the heat in winter, they're simply wizards of survival. And if in this context we raise about 130 nets and 160 kunas of gross wages, it is clear that they will not even feel it. Many will eat it before it comes to them at all. This is one context where the people of our citizens for whom we are passing this law, we do not bring it to ourselves and there is no one here on a minimum wage, we do not bring it to those who work for the average salary but rather bring it to citizens who work for the least that can be done in Croatia. And we know that if two people in the family work for a minimum wage that they can't live normally, they're just down. Where there are two, three thousand kunas per month to get to the level where the basket is and where some normal life is. Given this picture, we understand why citizens do not see the perspective in Croatia, why they are moving. Here are the questions again for my fellow government representatives Majdi Buric, so if we have an old minimum wage and now we're going to raise it to a new minimum wage level, how much longer will we pick up additional numbers within those two amounts, or how many more of our fellow citizens will enter that account so that when a new minimum wage is set up at minimum wage level? That's one question. And the second question, since we know that it's falling from gross 1 to gross 2 pay for those who pay a new minimum wage, the question is, what about workers who have just a little more pay than a new minimum wage, will their employer tear down their salary to a minimum? So it's not just about those who have a couple of kunas, but the whole belt is of several hundred kunas, where the employer now threatens to bring that salary down on minimum wage. Why? Just to save on contributions. It's one danger I don't see here that you've mentioned at all, that you've said one letter about it, how many people here if we know by inspections and statistics and JOPPD and HZMO and others, if we know exactly how much pay the registered worker is I don't see statistics here, and the law is relatively thin eight pages with all five, six heads, how many people are in that belt and how many people are threatened to get paid by this law, and not that they're going to increase. There is, of course, always the danger of being fired because the employer won't be able to pay this greater minimum wage, but of course what's the point here? The work of the Croatian Parliament is primarily to bring solutions at system level, and if I say that last year the profits of Croatian employers were €26 billion, it is clear that there is room to increase the minimum wage. In the pre-election campaign for this meeting of the Croatian Parliament we proposed an increase of 500 kuna per year. So there can be no sudden and major changes in salary increases, so no minimum wage and that's a huge cost to the employer. He just won't be able to pay for it. What's he gonna do? The key in the lock, fire the workers. So we have to go one way up and gradually increase that salary. We don't see any such analysis here, we don't see what happens next year, we don't see a quote on any strategy that we're going to do next year. This is quite flat, partial, non-systemically written without enough analysis and width. However, with all the dangers, the disadvantages are still a step forward but they are crumbs, crumbs compared to what should really be done in Croatia. I also ask how many people in Croatia in the state administration, in the public administration, work for minimum wage? Here's if you were looking at the budget item, the budget item relating to the General Affairs Office of the Parliament and the Government. It's the work of all these people, our colleagues, waiters, cooks, cleaners, cleaners, and others, so I don't forget someone. They did not have an increase in salary this year or in projections. But at the same time, the government's expenses increase twice in four years. How many other people in particular work at the state's minimum wage administration? Here's those numbers, it would be good if you listed some of those numbers, they're very important in the context of this law at all. As far as our citizens' lives are concerned, I will announce here that the Living Wall is working in cooperation with experts on the Minimum Pensions Act. Not only is it not possible to live on minimum wages, but pensions that are catastrophic can also not live on. The law will be presented within my belief for about a month. About that more later. So we have a whole series of labour market problems that this law doesn't solve whose problem we don't see being announced, that it solves, but we see so on some 130 kunas a one-time increase that I doubt, that there will ever be any major positive shifts. It's quite clear that if we were to give more money to people who are already barely making ends meet so they wouldn't take it to Austria, they wouldn't take it to the bank. They'd spend it right away in the first store. Therefore, it is direct money that goes to consumption. And while at the same time we see that there is no least interest by the ruling majority to put laws in small hours when a small number of MPs are here, to return the money robbed for overpaid interest. If we see that the IRS, the work we see has so many and so many solutions, I'd wonder how many of these solutions were in the Agrokora system. It's still the data for last year, and we know Agrokor was protected as a bear. So these are all anomalies that are neither here nor mentioned and that simply don't give a perspective, in a country that needs extensive changes and fast changes, because every day we lose people. Offering such crumbs is extremely unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64499	Thank you. Resumption of my colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64500	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the government going on with the mouse-step policy. Croatia needs strong reforms, Croatia needs strong measures because we are in a deep economic and social crisis, and here is what the government is offering. It offers us 131 kuna minimum wage increases that will now amount to about 2600 kuna. Let's say if this was a minimum pension, if it was a minimum pension, they'd say come on, it's still a little bit more. But this is about minimum wage. What kind of pension will there be today, tomorrow, a man who worked on a minimum wage? What kind of contributions does he pay? He'll have a pension of five hundred, one thousand six kuna. Poor guy while he's working a social case while he's retired. This salary doesn't essentially solve anything important. Who can live in Croatia with 2600 kuna? What can be afforded with that? What can a father with two or three children do if he has a salary of 2600 kuna? This is where you want to create an illusion that like taking care of workers, it takes care of those who are the most endangered, but basically when you look at these 130 kunas, nothing important changes in life, so those of whose work we all live at the end. So the government offers a partial approach, not a complete solution that is otherwise constant in its work. And if the government really wanted to make order on the labour market, it would have cut into the problem of the gray economy first. Of course, the representatives of the ministry are now talking as I speak, but the Croatian public listens well. So the problem is that some workers have to earn that minimumer twice, not once twice. They don't get paid overtime, they don't get paid for transportation, they don't get paid on Saturdays, weekends, and most importantly, their standards are set, so some workers have to meet the 10, 11-hour standard, and I'm actually saying do the minimumer almost twice as much as they should to earn it. Also in individual dams, for example in the building or in the store, a large part of the salary is paid by hand. Let me tell you what it looks like. So far, the employer has paid 2500 kuna minimum wage on account and 2000 kuna paid the worker by hand. Now, according to these changes, 2600 will pay him on account, and 1900 will give him his hands. How much raise did that worker get? What's that raise got? Nothing. It spills from hollow to empty. Here, Mr. Bacic, tell your Minister Maric, if he doesn't know how to solve the gray economy, that the representative of Bunjac will explain to him within 5 minutes. Well, only if he wanted to listen... As soon as the representative of the Bunjac heard, the darkness fell upon his eyes, where he would listen to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because he only listens to his superiors, and you, of course, not only are they not from the Living Wall, but they are not from Croatia at all. It's those bankers in... and what they have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Maldives, in the Virgin Islands, these are his... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, he would listen to me if he were paying him 2600 kn, then he'd be very interested in hearing how to solve the problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, as long as he's on one side, and most Croatian citizens on the other, he doesn't care what I say, what they say, what their real problems are. Look then what our minister says, he allows, the employers say, we can't pay the contributions, because otherwise we wouldn't have survived on the market. That's their main excuse. So now I'm asking you a personal question, are you fair or dishonest? If you're honest, then you'll do it by law. Everything else is, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You can't say that, but I'm cheating on the state, because the state is expensive. That's not how it works. You're either an honest man, or you're a dishonest man. Of course, the state should solve problems in the economy, so that it also cares about interested employers, but not by tolerance from the gray economy, that is not the solution. It can't be a solution. The solution should be tax discharge, the solution should be therefore, encouraging measures, not by saying, and well, paying the wages on your hands, so you survive somehow. I think that every employee in the Republic of Croatia, above all, deserves to be paid full payment and that all contributions are paid neatly for his safety as a worker and for his safety tomorrow as a pensioner. When this is achieved and when this problem is solved, and some analyses say that 10-30% of the budget is stolen in Croatia, i.e. tax evasion is lost. If this were resolved, and these are literally billions lying on the road, it would be at the same time, and the employers would be given incentive measures, while the minimum wage would be increased by at least 500 kn per year, as my colleague Sincic said. Because let's be realistic so long as the worker in Croatia won't work for 5000 kn, at least for 5000 kn, under these terms of our standards in Croatia, at these prices, he won't be able to survive the month easily. This salary cannot survive in Croatia. This salary can survive for 10 days, and after that people are forced to borrow, borrow, borrow, which consequently leads to executions, which eventually leads to blockades, which consequently leads to major psychological health problems, which many people make or leave Croatia or think about abandoning it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64501	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have one replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64502	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you've told this a really nice story. If he'd listened to you, he'd really believe it's true. Knowing you as a professor or doctor of history, you've been doing probably budget connections, and I'm an employer, some of which I'm paying, I'm going to look a little differently on this subject. Why? We're here to, we need to know, if it wasn't just employers who wouldn't want to raise their employee's salary to 3,000, 4000 and 6000. We're looking at the average salary in state administrations. The average salary is 5000 kn. An employer when he makes a contract with a worker, of £3,000 and tomorrow can't pay his salary, or he can't cut the contract at the same time and give it away. I agree 2600 kn is a very small salary. And I suggest that it be 2000, that it be 5,000 that it can be paid up to 5000 salaries, give to the state up to 1500, 600 kn, as it is given to 2600. So you give 5000, then you give the state 2,000 and something. Then the employer jumps on his back right away. We need to know that in this country we have an excessive amount of administration and expenses, which the employer must settle everything and must pay for everything. You know, for an employer, electricity is more expensive than for citizens. Instead of being the opposite, the employer pays cheaper electricity and gas, not from citizens, so that he can pay his worker the same. It is not true that employers would not give more workers, but it is a problem, and they can understand the state, the problem is our administration and the problem is that we all want to live happily and not work. And then there's the question of why people went to Germany, that's why. And the good masters we didn't respect, we didn't appreciate, we couldn't... And people are gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a question, except the government wouldn't give it, it's just impossible, aside from this kind of administration and this kind of cost that the state budget spends, and there's the problem and the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64503	Thank you, fellow Muscle. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64504	Thank you very much. Representative Misic, I think we can agree on this. There are definitely too many administrations in Croatia, Colloquially said, arrests, therefore, there should be some work to be done. Here, we're going to have a law on HRT tomorrow, so we could talk about, like, how many employees this company has, and how much productivity. You're right, so for employers, the burdens are very high. You have to pay out of salary, gross 27% of the state, and then you still have to pay, is that, 25% of VAT on all your activities, on all your transactions, so that's already 52% of the traffic taking the state. So there are your fees, and there are some benefits for you, so there are the receipts, and in the end, you are practically left with your profit of 20 or 30% of what you have earned. That's definitely too much. But, MP Misic, you have now moved to the ruling coalition, and now it is time to encourage them a little, that they listen to your advice. I'm sure they'll be very interested in supporting you and telling them, come on, let's get off the labour market. Here, they said in the "Reliable" programme that they would reduce VAT, so give more of that VAT, even it is said that now the budget will have some surpluses, so let's fill out your program. You let the Living Wall know what we're talking about, of course you think we're talking unseriously, and so here's the program "Reliable", so let's get this program "Reliable" and you who are in the real sector will have a better income, and ultimately, you'll pay your workers better. By the time the VAT crisis broke out, it was 22%, so let's at least go back to that 22%, if we could survive before, so we could probably do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64505	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64506	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I think it's important at first to say that this law does not raise the minimum wage but allows the government to impose discretion before every Christmas to grant the charity that this Christmas has granted 130 kuna. Do you think people in Croatia can live with 2,700 kuna? Do you think that with 2,700 kuna I can feed my family, pay the children for schooling? Do you think it's money to live with from the first to the last of the month? That's what we're talking about today. This is a step forward like you said, but we're on the verge of a break-in today. Step forward on the edge of the break-in, you know what that means. I'm sorry that he doesn't have a minister either, it just shows that he doesn't care about the poor, about 76,000 people who work for a church girl who can't feed their family and shows that he doesn't give a shit about the minimum wage issues at all because that he cares so surely with these measures, surely with the suggestions of a solution, they wouldn't wait a year and then bring anything. So with this proposal, you directly punish employers who paid higher wages and encourage those who paid minimum wage, so you make it easier for those who paid minimum wages, the church, and in a way that you subtract it from the health system. So you're subtracting from the health system where the pensioners are waiting for the sick, poor, with minimum pensions of 2 months for the review, you want to make that review even more inaccessible, that they have to wait even longer, to get medication slower, that they can barely come to the doctor. In this way you further push the health system into a problem because the waiting lists in Croatia have increased three times in recent years. The health debt has increased three times, now amounts to over 8 billion kuna, and you want to say with this law that everything is fine. 76,000 people are covered by measures i.e. Minimum pay. This measure, which stimulates those who pay minimum wage, will result in employers paying minimum wage next year, even more. It'll make this effect. So accept our proposal, accept that we increase the salary to 60% of the average salary but put it into the law, that it says, that it's clear. I'll remind you, of those 76,000 people who live and work for minimum wage and live from it, according to the information that is publicly available to you, see the data. 45% of these people went to bed hungry to feed their children. 65% of these households didn't pay for the directories in time. 62%, so again 2/3 has reduced the use of communals, people rule out heating, 25%, each 4th, such a family has disfellowshipped directors, my people. 35% of those people, so a third of the people who work for that church had to sell a piece of furniture to feed their family. 43% had nothing to sell. Look at that data. In Croatia, 70% of people work for a salary between 3 and 5,000 kuna. People go out, to Graz, to Stuttgart, to Dublin for 500 euros so they can pay the apartment and live with 500 euros from first to last in the month. We have to stop the eviction immediately. 50,000 people have left Croatia only for the last year, since this government started without any concrete measures to prevent emigration, and for that we must do 4 things urgently in Croatia. We need to raise the salary, first the minimum wage, there's our 60 percent proposal. We need to regulate that the contracts are permanent and not temporary, not that they are misused. We need to increase and give young people a chance to get their first job, not take advantage of them, and push them on the road, and it's crucial, we need to secure a bigger child's allowance. Over 200,000 children on the verge of poverty. And we sent that proposal to you in the process. So we sent everything to you in procedure. Don't just pass a law whose shape, the way you wrote it is actually a law that encourages emigration from Croatia. Put 60% of the average salary into the law as we suggested, solve these problems, increase the child's allowance, regulate contracts for permanent not temporary. And don't take those who are sick, poor and old wait two months in a row to exercise their right to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64507	I thank my colleague Bernardic for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64508	Thank you very much. Col. Bernardić, you have noticed that it is scandalous that it is not today that Minister Pavić who shook his hand and said he is not interested in 76404 our fellow citizens who receive minimum wage and did not come to the Croatian Parliament to share his genius idea here and thus to be interested in Croatian citizens and to receive support for what he is doing. It's easy to get the support of the ruling majority, because we've seen people in the ruling majority vote for everything they're proposed without critical detachment. The only thing that matters is to get the quorum together and answer. He was to come here and defend himself before the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public his proposal for 130 kuna to raise the minimum salary of the same minister who increased the pension of 500 to 600 kuna to government officials. Imagine that situation? 130 kunas to people with nothing, and to those with debt pensions of 10000 kuna and 1000 kuna monthly higher pensions, Minister Pavic suggested. Of course he dares not come here, that he dares not come before Croatian MPs to tell him what Croatian citizens think of his proposals. Those suggestions just don't make any sense. They motivate people to leave Croatia, they motivate employers to hire on minimum wage. It doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64509	I thank my colleague Maras. The answer of my colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64510	A respected colleague, so that it is good luck to discuss the poor, about 76,000 people working for minimum wage here should also be the president of the Croatian government who probably has more important things to do. As most important work has been done by the minister of labour and pension systems, they have more important things to do than take care of workers who work for minimum wage. And so I'm not surprised that they're trying to convince us that people who work for 2700 kuna are in position, that's the salary they can live with, while at the same time their Commissioner in Agrokor has a salary of 120,000 kuna per month. There are 141 advisors. They'll spend half a billion kuna. They named it themselves. 120,000 kunas a month, while people live for 2700 kunas, barely make ends meet. And what else is being stimulated by this bill? Very clear. It's being stimulated by this bill. Those who paid bigger beaches are punished, and those who paid the church, minimum wage, are rewarded. This government has once again collected electricity, as it has made tax reform take away from the poor to give to the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64511	I thank my colleague Bernardic for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bernardic, I have no doubt that you want workers in the Republic of Croatia to have as much pay as possible, and then as much minimum wage as possible. But in your presentation, you said something that wasn't true and your debate actually turned out to be quite somehow I would say incorrect because you didn't provide the correct information. You said you were proposing your law to raise the minimum wage to 60% which is not true. We're talking about 2018. Maybe you've forgotten what the law you've proposed says, but take a look at it. You increased the minimum wage by 4% from 2014 to 2016 by two years or three, and this government increased last year and this year by 5%. I'm not saying it's great, it should be more, everything according to the possibilities. But look at your law so you can see what a minimum wage increase you've proposed for 2018. So, 60% of you suggested only there in 2021. That's what you should have said in your presentation so the people would hear that you didn't propose 60% now. That's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64513	I thank my colleague Lukacic. The answer of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64514	Dear colleague Lukacic, whatever you suggest you won't accept anyway. You do not accept that we have proposed an increase in salary to 60% of the average salary, you do not want to accept that people who work on Sundays, who work on holidays, who work under difficult working conditions are paid extra for that job. You just close your eyes in front of that. You close your eyes before people who work for minimum wage and employers who paid minimum wage will be further stimulated by this proposal to pay off that church, that probably the number of people who work for minimum wage will grow. For on the other hand, only those who paid higher wages are punished. You don't see that, you don't see that 50,000 people have left the Republic of Croatia in the last year. You don't see that there are no reform measures of this government. You don't see that of those people who live with that church 45% went hungry to sleep so they can pay, so they can feed their children. You don't see it. You don't see that two-thirds of these people can't pay and are late in paying their directors, that a quarter of these citizens can't pay their directors, you don't see it, you don't care. If these people work for 2700 kunas, you don't see it, it doesn't matter to you. So, what are we talking about here? Open your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64515	I thank my colleague Bernardic. Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64516	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bernardich, just a few things. Of course, I don't think there's anyone here who would agree that the minimum wage is 60%, even if it was 2021, or in your proposal 45 versus 42.9. What's the difference every time some suggestions go, always opposition, but that's not what I'm saying now to you, that's what I'm saying to the current partners who were opposition while we were in power worry more than what the position suggests and it's such a political, simple game rules... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The minimum wage law in 2014 was signed to increase the minimum wage by the regulation, so they increased in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and now, so this is something that was before, we can introduce it by law, we can give up on that rule that has been 4.5 years and doesn't have to. As for the impact on health care, we, in the last term of the Joint Government, have reduced our contributions to 13% for healthcare and returned them to 15%, and we have tried to do everything that can be made easier for employers. And I agree and I've already said it 131 kuna no one's going skiing for it, but that means it shouldn't be? No, I don't. Does that mean all we have to do is stay on it? Absolutely not. We must continue to work on frameworks where the market will only throw out an increase in the average wage and that the minimum wage as such will become a relic of whether the labour market must configure it. People will leave us, people will leave and no one will work for a minimum wage that will happen to us. Of course, we need all the elements as government and as government to work in this direction so that people stay to work for as much money as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64517	I thank my colleagues Curaju. The answer of my colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64518	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, first of all, I'm a little surprised that you're in favour of minimum wage because it's clear and known that you've charged your transition to the ruling coalition well, much more than a minimum wage, so you have no right to speak of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64519	Thank you. My colleague Bernardić, I would only ask you not to go along with such statements as are just below the belt. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64520	Mr. Vice President, Article 238. My colleague's rules now don't know if he personally thought of me, didn't define when he told you if he thought of me personally, so there he hurt the Rules of Procedure himself by personally insulting me. So this transition absolutely gave me nothing more than what I had, by the way, less about some personal total income. So to insinuate such things are absolutely unclear. We know and see daily what happens and what we do at the level of what we promised and at the Ministry of Education and today is the new Proposal of the Law on Professional Education, almost a billion more invests in education, so what we say we do and we're not going to fire there. And surely that some early and election that might then be useful to you that... to your people in your ranks would benefit you, but the citizens certainly wouldn't, and that was one of the reasons that was... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64521	I thank my colleague Curai. Before your injury to the Rules of Procedure, I have already asked my colleague Bernardic, and I deeply believe that he will stay away from such insinuations in the future, although I don't think he meant anything wrong, it's a matter of political discourse. Thank you very much. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64522	Thank you, Vice President. As a young politician, you are successful and I appreciate you and I appreciate you as a man, but I would advise you as a young politician, do not spread populism. 60% of pay raises would be the destruction of at least 50% of craftsmen and entrepreneurs wouldn't stand it. But this government that she's done, I think it's with one precaution and she's done a very good job and she's doing a good job. So me as a man who came from the real sector, when you want to develop, you have to be careful in every investment and careful in every payday because in order to survive for many years you have to take care of everything. But politically speaking, everything can be solved very easily, it's not so easy, I know it's not easy. And I'd suggest you now here and from here I speak, every parliamentary representative gets... 25 thousand kuna, let's share it all for this Christmas with this poor Caritas so that all parties can transfer that money that our poor girl has, that we don't spend any lunches and any trips and I would suggest that it be reduced and that it eventually separates to the poor if we're going to be politicians honest and honest. And speaking to the populist is very easy and the people will understand it, but who was in the real sector, although you know that there are about 250 to 400 parafiscal duties of the economy, and I know it very well, my whole life I've been doing it, I understand you somewhat but let's be careful. I think this government has done a good job and I'd like you to try to talk about good, not everything bad in the country, and I think you'd better go as a politician more appreciated. The populist talk in Parliament is very nice but it's not true. That's what I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64523	I want to thank my colleague Misic. The answer of my colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64524	Dear fellow Misic, so I was talking about real life problems for people who really can't pay their children for education, who really want them to be sick of lying hungry, who really can't pay for their directing, and that's what's true, that 76,000 people work for that church girl you can't survive. And you know that very well as an entrepreneur who paid your wages, that no one allowed you to be, for example. Commissioner in Agrokor and to work for 120 thousand kuna, to have 141 advisers, to spend half a billion kuna that will eventually have to pay Croatian citizens, that no one has allowed you to spend what you do not have, that no one has allowed you to sell out Croatian property, that no one has given you money from Croatia, that you simply did not give people but you have to earn it yourself. And that's something that we're proposing to our bill, the gradual adjustment, but also the awareness that we need to start solving this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64525	I thank my colleague Bernardic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected cradle Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the beginning, I will immediately say that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft law amending the Minimum Payment Act. When I speak on behalf of the club about minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, then I want first of all to talk about minimum wage by taking care of employers and employees or workers in those employers who work in those low-profit industries in Croatia who, due to their low profitability and competition on the market where they place their products, are not able to pay more wages like other highly profitable sectors in Croatia. So here I don't think of those employers he has in the Republic of Croatia, who, by the Law on Minimum Payment and Minimum Salary, use to sort of deal in black as popularly said in Croatia because I hold that this law or any other law does not apply to them and they should be subject to the interests of other laws and other state bodies in the Republic of Croatia. So here I'm primarily talking about those employers and employees in these employers who receive or pay minimum wage or something greater because their activity is therefore wood, textile, leather in the first place, and also construction activity, very often, not always, makes it impossible for them to pay higher wages due to the prices of their products that they can achieve on the market. The minimum wage under the Minimum Payment Act is the minimum monthly gross salary belonging to a full-time worker. So it's very important for the prominent. Why? Because this law now provides for this definition of minimum wage to be further elaborated in a way that clearly knows what has not been the case so far, that the minimum wage must not be added to overtime, to work on Sundays and to work on holidays. Therefore, it is very important to note immediately that this law prevents employers from paying and overtime fees through minimum wage but to clearly separate themselves, when the worker receives the salary. The main measure proposed by the ministry or by the government relates to the increase in gross wages by around 5% compared to the salary established at the same time last year for 2017 when the minimum wage was defined. Also when I talk about it, I want to say that then a year ago, and only three months after the government of Andreja Plenkovic took responsibility for running the state, the immediately increased salary by 5%, so we can say in gross terms that in the past 14 months, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, the minimum wage has increased by 320 kuna or something more, almost 11%. 10.66% seems to me that the rate of increase in gross wages over the past 14 months. I would also like to mention that when I hear comments from our colleagues from the SDP, it gives for the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, which is in the range of those 3 years, since 2013 when the law was passed in March 2013 until 2016. The government raised only 130 kuna in gross amounts of around 4.4% of gross wages by 3 years. So when we talk about how much pay could be, then we need to keep an eye on what the SDP colleagues have done in that time, accepting sometimes the argument that it was a time of crisis but the government took responsibility and the former government to get Croatia out of the crisis, and thus and then it could be talked about a bigger increase rather than a 4.4. Another important thing that I want to say here is that when I increase gross wages, the employer is also taken care of in a way that I am speaking to employers, and yet I am talking to those employers who are not working on black but whose salaries are conditioned by their low-profit activity, they are determined by compensatory measures in a way that reduces 50% of their salary contributions and that they will thus have a lower wage cost of 104 kuna. In this way, this difference takes over the state budget of 24 million kuna and 221 million kuna takes over the HZZO. There were questions here whether those employers who are somewhere near that belt would be minimum wages of 5, 10, 100 or 200 kuna above minimum wage, who pay their employees such salaries that are slightly above minimum wages now enter this system, there is a clear instrument here that prevents such an opportunity for these workers to be reduced in order for their employers to enter this system and then they would have less expenditure on the basis of a reduced rate of contribution and that instrument takes 12 months for the worker to receive such a salary so that he could then, after the adoption of this law, enter into that system. Therefore, this instrument of protection has made it impossible for such an employer to abuse such a proposal to amend the law in favour of employees to increase their minimum wage. I must say that, at the same time as the adoption of this law or by proposing legislation in the Government, the government has taken other measures that allow for improving the labour market in Croatia. So we know that on that very day, the government gave 29 000 work permits to foreigners who would come to Croatia. Therefore, and the fact that 29 000 new jobs will be allowed for workers who will pay their commitments and contributions will not be reduced by the income of the HZZO on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have witnessed this when we adopted the HZZO budget that there was no reduction in the amount of income in the HZZI contribution position in that budget. What I must also say, which is why these compensatory measures have been carefully taken. Namely, a large number of employers in Croatia pay other employees, not only those in the minimum wage system but also other employees based on minimum wage. So that a number of employees, either based on a collective contract or on the basis of a contract of work that they have with all employees, or the basis of a pay-out regulation in their company, will be forced to make such a decision unless they have to amend those basic acts in the company, raise salaries and other employees who are not in the minimum wage system. Therefore, the costs of the employer, which we provide by this law, will be reduced at the expense of the reduction in contributions to health insurance and other contributions by 50%, at the same time to those same employers who have other employees and have them, will be increased by the cost of salaries, as they will be increased by the basis on which these other employees are being paid. Therefore, we need to be very careful here, at this point in time, I do not have those accounts but I will try very hard to determine and find out how much of these basics will increase the costs from employers who pay not only minimum wages but also pay other salaries that are significantly above minimum wages, based on the increase in minimum wages. So as much about how this law is and how it contributes to certain employers, most of all to those employers who are in this activity very lowly profitable, such as the wood industry. So we should take care of that too. I see here from the debates we heard during the morning and the public that there are two fundamental approaches to this Law on Minimum Salaries and this is the first approach whether 164 kuna is enough to raise minimum wages and on the other hand whether the compensation measure is fair to those employers who try to get out with all employees from the minimum wage system. When we talk about 5% increase, I also agree that this increase might be better if 15%, if it were 12%, that we get to 60% as soon as possible. The SDP did not say that in its bill of law, I also read their bill that this year, 2018, they will go to 60%, but that they will... gradually rises with salaries to reach 60% of the average gross paid in the Republic of Croatia in 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I argue that all of us here who are independent of our party preferences, we believe that the minimum wage should come to over 50% of the average salary in Croatia, over 50%. In this way we would be at the top of all EU Member States, and this is not how we end up, and this is how we feel about the 9th or 10th of those lowest average salaries in Croatia, which is what EUROSTAT data is for. However, this procedure should be taken into account on the one hand in order to allow a minimum wage increase and, on the other hand, to make sure that employers who pay these salaries do not, by increasing their wages by jumping from 15 to 20%, compromise their underlying business, in general, question paying salaries in that employer or forcing him to go bankrupt. Therefore, the increase in minimum wages will be one of the top priorities of this government, it is in the government's programme and clearly said, the government will continue, we will be sure and next year at this time testify to a new salary increase but this salary increase must be systematic, take care of the employer as you also take care of the worker in that employer. And secondly, I said that the compensation measure is good because it helps the team, primarily those employers, that they can continue to pay their salaries, but I'm talking about making sure that the employers besides that they will have savings because they reduce their contributions to employees who receive minimum wage, have increased pay costs, for those employees who are paid to the employer are based on the minimum wage. This morning, it was said by counterpart Bernardic that the increase in electricity prices is a major blow to this category of Croatian citizens who pay minimum wages and who have low incomes. So that's not true, not to say it's a lie. In fact, last year's tax reform reduced Croatian citizens' electricity prices in such a way that the base or VAT rate was reduced from 25% to 13% and then by the increase that we inherited from the former government where the compensation for renewable energy sources was to be increased, the fee was increased by 3.5 June to 10.5 June, which in the average household annually still, when compared to the VAT rate reduction and the increase of renewable energy charges, is still at an annual level that has an average consumption of around 60 kuna, which still needs to be allocated to the payment of electricity. So it's not true either, and that's what I'm gonna end up with right now. So, we at the HDU Club will support this bill, we think it is good that the government is constantly increasing the salary and I also have to look back, my colleague Bernardic said that this is not an increase in salary but rather a law and that the Government will, by its regulation, give this gift to the Christmas citizens and employees to whom this law applies, that the Government will generously do so with its regulation, I would just remind that such a decision is made by the Croatian Parliament and the Government prescribes a minimum wage, precisely on the basis of the law that was passed in 2013... This law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this is what is inherited and what is simply confirmed in this law. Therefore, here I will end up on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club and we will support this proposal of the Minimum Payment Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64527	I would like to thank my colleague Bacic for this debate. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Goran Mars. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64528	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. With infidelity, I have now heard a gift to the Croatian citizens. As if Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ had given something to those people, who worked for 2800 nets for a month. And that's what you call a gift. This, in my opinion, is one of the most recent statements I have heard so far in the Croatian Parliament, since the draft Croatian Parliament, since the 1990s, Mr. Kolega Bačić has called it a gift from Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ, and that is how he explains it. Look at this, do you know what this is? It's a five-dollar coin. That's how much you've been raising people's wages on the minimum wage. Here, that's it. A kilo of bread, less than a kilo of bread, a liter of milk, half a chocolate, and you boast about it. So what are my people? Well, is there even a little bit of will, to help people, or is this the way they say it's a gift? That God gave you something like that. For 5 kn a day and to work a month for what people do for 2700, 2800 kn. So that 130 kn, when you go travel expenses to Karlovac is fried. It's 30 kilometers, sorry, 60 kilometers, that's it. When you pass Carlovec here's 130 kn when you go home. Try to understand how people live, and do not act that way and characterize something that simply does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64529	Thank you, colleague Maras. Dear colleague Bacic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, while your president of the SDP on behalf of the SDP Club exhibited here, you obviously fell asleep a little while, drowsy here in the Parliament, so you didn't listen to what he was saying. Therefore, you should have heard what your president said, he says, this law does not increase the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia and will already donate it to the Prime Minister when the government adopts the regulation and determines the increase in that salary. So I quoted your president, so you should have sent this replica to him, not to me. And as for the £5 and the coin you showed me, you say we did it, £5 for this year. And you've been in power for four years, and you haven't done that five kn, but you've done that double less than two kn a month to those same employees. So, I'm not saying that if it was 5 kn a lot, 5 kn is small, still that minimum wage is small, but in your opinion it wouldn't be that way. And I said that, by the work of this government, we will certainly get to one amount, the percentage of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia by the end of the term of office of this government, which will, in any case, contribute to, that Croatian citizens, in the first place, have a decent life with their minimum salary. Not the kind you left me when you were in government and you were part of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64531	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply to the replica. The next replica, a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64532	Thank you very much, Reverend Bačić, and you haven't prepared the discussion very well. Well, first of all, the minimum wage is not directed towards the sector, which is wood processing, but is directed towards everyone, everyone has a right. On the other hand, the minimum wage is not aimed at employers in difficulty but at all. So, there... from the wrong premises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, do not protect employers from themselves, because the mechanism of contracting wages in a company where the minimum salary base, for increasing other salaries, is the risk of an employer who has negotiated with workers and trade unions such a way of calculating wages. Therefore, do not defend them from themselves. So they can and know and what and how to do. On the other hand, it is very clear that transferring the cost of minimum wages from employers to the state is a gift from the state to employers. And this is not a minimum wage for workers, it's a minimum wage for employers. Because even at the time of the crisis, when we raised the minimum wage as much as we could, there was also talk of firing 50,000 jobs, that this industry couldn't handle it, so it turned out, that it could still maintain a minimum wage without compensation mechanisms. What you should have done is offer a transition period, instead of transferring the cost to the state, to a poor health system, which you'll take another 250 million. You should have made it possible for the employer to pay the minimum wage with his workers, trade unions or working councils last year. And that's how you made it possible for the employer to get used to a new minimum wage. And you went completely the other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64533	I thank my colleague Mrssic. Answer, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrsic, I especially appreciate the representatives who have... Smart. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's as broad-minded as you weren't now years ago, when you were a minister and ran this resort. Why didn't you find methods then, ways, how are you going to raise the minimum wage? You are the author of a law that has not been prescribed, how and how the minimum wage will be increased. I was just getting ready for this point. This isn't mine I would say part of the profession when I speak, but I've just prepared myself for this point and I've seen that you haven't left behind, and that law you've written, and now you're transferring this government methodology to and in what way to monitor the increase in minimum wages relative to growth average. You didn't do it. Here, in the light of the law, three basic elements are now taken to speak of the increase in minimum wage. I'm not satisfied with the 5% increase. I wish there was a 20% increase, but I cited those employers in the wood and textile industry because with them, it is precisely those employers that the share of minimum wages is the highest. So they're the ones most out for minimum wages because they're low-income and that's why I've singled them out. Not because I didn't know what relations are like in other activities where the range between minimum salaries is 29% to 62% and three percent in certain other employers. So I mentioned employers in those industries, which I know, because that's what they say and the indicators that the minimum beaches are paid the most, and that's what I am, which is why I specifically singled them out. And I think that it must be prescribed how and how to monitor the growth of minimum wages in Croatia compared to the growth of average wages in Croatia, and that in a certain way it is related to each other in order to achieve this acceptable level of average wages in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64535	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. The next replica, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I must say some things at the beginning of my replica because you are prone to spinning, not to say to alternative facts how some members of your party express themselves, and when we talk about pay increases. So you can't compare the situation in which the government of Zoran Milanovic was and is now yours, because you're riding on a wave of economic growth that the government has provided because in 2016 it didn't provide anything. In my opinion, this isn't an increase in the pay of ladies and gentlemen, this is actually an adjustment to inflation. Because an increase of 164 kunas is the only way I can interpret it. Of course, it is more than welcome to our fellow citizens who earn minimum wage. But I ask you fellow Bačić or anyone in this assembly survive you with 3,000 kuna, especially if it's the only income in the household. Only heating will pay at least 1500 to 1800 kuna in these winter months because such prices are gas. Even if you're warming up very, very thrifty. In my opinion, my colleague Bačić said that we really wanted to help employers at the time, we should have charged, or cheaped, the work. Because you, as an employer, would give one decent salary that is tolerable for the costs our fellow citizens face, which is, say, 5600 kuna, you in the brut have to allocate more than 8,000 kuna. So, as an employer, I've been demoted to give good pay to my employees because it costs me a lot. I almost have to pay that much in gross one more time to give my employee a good salary. This reminds me a little of your tax reform from the beginning of the term of office which was Superhik tax reform – we give the rich a lot and the poor nothing. This is also, we stimulate small wages and stimulate employers to pay the minimum wage which is absolutely not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64537	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is an honor to welcome me to the Croatian Parliament Gallery Delegation of the Hungarian-Croatian parliamentary group of friendships, the National Assembly of Hungary, led by the group leader Mr. Matija Firtl. I welcome you to feel comfortable in the Croatian Parliament and to have a pleasant and nice stay in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Replication response, dear colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Hajdukovic, I think we will agree that the only correct approach and possibility of amending the law, adopting all possible legal, sublegal acts to increase the minimum wage is to assume that and the growth of gross domestic products. It's a question of all the questions. I can understand that at a time when GDP fell during your governments that you couldn't particularly increase the minimum wage, but you also don't have the right if you take the excuse that you didn't, but only 4.5% increase the minimum wage in three, four years, and you say that because the state was in crisis you can't right now as soon as GDP growth starts to demand that now, or the minimum wage is increased by 20 or 30% because then you're not credible when you justify yourself for... and then ask for a large growth of minimum wage at the time of growth of GDP in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as tax reform is concerned, I think that tax reform has certainly contributed to GDP growth in Croatia, and that's exactly what we said when we adopted in the Council tax reform, and we argued that it would contribute to GDP growth about 0.5%. So if those 0.5% contributed to GDP growth last year, which was about 2.9%, that's also in this year which will be about 3.2%, then the best way to grow GDP is to allow for a minimum wage increase. So it's like a system of connected vessels. As the standard grows in Croatia, that is how GDP will grow in Croatia, so will the standard of Croatian citizens and then those who are on minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64539	I would like to thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64540	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. Your debate on this subject might come to that folk tale full of hungry people don't believe it. That he does not believe that he is hungry because 76,000 workers in Croatia who work for a minimumer in Croatia cannot feed their family and pay for that basket that costs more than 6,7,000 and 700 kuna. And especially when you see the differences within Croatia, that income is the average income per capita in Lenjska Varoša, it is there with Đakova 11697 kn per year, in Gunja is 12733, Babina Greda 12950, and in St. Sunday 43934 or in Rijeka 38187 kn per capita. Huge differences, 76,000 workers working for a minimum wager. And if we add about 4,000 workers to that, about 900 employers who don't pay their wages, if I have good information, then we see what situation Croatia is in. And in real terms, individual consumption of citizens is a 58% average of the EU population's purchasing power. Romania has reached us, and the worst three are Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia. The minimum wage needs to be increased, but this is insufficient to reduce the risk of poverty, and the greatest risk of poverty is precisely in those underdeveloped regions where the wood and textile industries, Slavonia, Baranja and some other undeveloped regions are. And when you see in the polls, 80% of the population who moved out of Croatia said it was because of low wages. How do employers reach an agreement to raise their wages? The only increase in the minimum wage is one of the roads. But for these sensitive sectors, it also needs to find some measures, reforms, reduce administrative pressure on them. Here also yesterday the president said that the tax pressure, precisely on those small craftsmen and entrepreneurs, was too high, and some of the great types of Agrokor, didn't come. You have to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64541	I would like to thank my colleague Vlaović, a colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vlaović, when you're in such a populist way, you're transferring me, so that my debate can be reduced to... I can tell you what you've done to then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did your client do to make these people full? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You ran Croatian agriculture as a party for years, in 3.4 terms, so what did you do? Which isn't exactly why you took responsibility back then, for the activities in which it's most pronounced, and you just said that yourself. In Slavonia the most expressed is this minimum wage, where the most users and minimum wages in Croatia, what have you done? I don't want to talk to you like that. I said the only way to raise the minimum wage, so it reaches 50, 55%, 60% of what the minimum wage can be, is GDP growth. But I also want to say that in 14 months of this government and the previous government, therefore, since 2016. increased salary by 320 kn. That's not much, it would be better if it were 650 kn, or 1000 kn, but growth, annual gross salary growth is 5%, will lead to what is the goal of the government's work programme by the end of the term. Therefore, all other measures are not only this measure, heading towards the most vulnerable Croatian citizens, there are a number of other measures being taken in other ministries to facilitate the life of our citizens who are indeed receiving salaries that are at the edge of existential minimums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64543	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64544	Dear colleague Bačić, I believe, that you, me, and everyone else here in this assembly, would prefer to talk today about amounts of 5000, and even slightly more kuna, which would be, in reality, some sort of minimum survival in today's conditions. What's good, and in this law and also in the reflection of this government, is that over 3 shorter periods we've reached the amount of 3120 kn, 3276 now at 3435 and that this amount is constantly increasing. But also the fact that 76404 of our citizens are forced to survive with such amounts must move us to think of something else. So, at this point, which should certainly welcome this approach, but also express concern, that something would happen that none of us would want, and this shows what the secretary of state read about inspection findings and observed irregularities, or illegalities in a huge number of cases, where these were black payments. Where there was a reduction for health, etc. I think that segment should be stepped up. But it's a good thing you brought it up in your debate, and it should be pointed out all the time. The economy is also closely linked to wages, employees and the increase in GDP growth. The fact is that in Croatia, businessmen, entrepreneurs pay more expensive water. The fact is, they pay for more expensive electricity. And the fact is, they have to fight on the market. And that's one wide package of measures, which will have to be aligned with each other. Because it's all one blood stream that one without another can't, and every one that's been paid to our citizens through an increase, minimum personal income, will get right through consumption, and that VAT goes back to the state budget. And I think this kind of thinking is the only real thinking. And that reaching percentage of 50% of the average personal income in the Republic of Croatia, that's one goal I think can be achieved in a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64545	Thank you, colleague Klaric. I'd just be begging you and all your colleagues and colleagues to respect your time, not to interrupt. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klaric, in the introduction, said that as I speak on behalf of the club in this law, I do not think at that time about employers, who abuse the law, whose minimum salary is only to calculate contributions, and then to black pay their employees. And it's unacceptable. However, they are not the problem of this law, they are, in my opinion, the problem and other laws and other bodies of the Republic of Croatia, which must stop this black economy in Croatia. But I must also say that we cannot ask the employer to pay more than what we have prescribed or to keep increasing wages in Croatia if we do not go to employers. Therefore, only a successful employer can raise wages to his workers above minimum, that is, the salary worth living in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when we talk about minimum wage, we must take care of employees, therefore, but we must also take care of employers. And there will not be an increase in wages in Croatia unless there is an increased opportunity for employers to generate incomes that will eventually allow for an increase in wages. But also when we talk about salaries in Croatia, then it's not just a problem with the Minimum Payment Act, we have to say that by tax reform we increased salaries, that we increased personal deductions, that we reduced income tax rates etc., etc. that is why this year there was a salary over the average salary in Croatia almost 6%, which then allowed retail trade to grow, etc., etc. So it is a complex of measures that we must go towards both employers and employees to raise the standard of Croatian citizens in Croatia, which is generally reflected through the amounts of average and minimum salaries in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64547	I would like to thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64548	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bacic. I'll just agree in this first part that you highlighted in the replicas, we've seen that tax reform especially in terms of discharge or reduction in income tax rates has resulted in the fact that the tax collected is higher. One of the prime ministers' campaign promises was to lower the VAT rate by one percentage point, perhaps the measure would have caused better effects of reducing the VAT rate by one percentage point, perhaps because the poorest ones are not saving, they spend the most, so the most tax relatively relative to their salaries. But let's let it go. What I resent for this legislative proposal is, in fact, a whole story about minimum wage, it will not solve the essence of the problem because we need to observe to see why this is happening in the Republic of Croatia. Here are just some examples, with small entrepreneurs we have 422.238 people employed in mid-145,000, large entrepreneurs 262, and now in medium-sized enterprises despite almost a third less employed than small entrepreneurs, total revenues are only half less. But then what happens? It's won again by a third smaller than it is with small entrepreneurs. And let's take now big, almost half-employ less people than small entrepreneurs, but their incomes are far higher and their profits are roughly at the level of small entrepreneurs. And then if we see the net when we take their loss, then we see that the worst are medium-sized entrepreneurs. There's something about small business positives, the biggest positive is with big entrepreneurs. And now the question is, are we going to make these minimum wage provisions that we're going to hit most of these entrepreneurs, that's what's missing from the bill, such a single review.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64549	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Žagar, I agree with you in the part where we say that minimum wage or minimum wage law does not solve the systemic problem of low income in Croatia, it is only a consequence. This law is a social protective instrument to help those who have low incomes, minimum wages and who, I say, barely make ends meet. I agree with you that it is necessary to establish, enable employers of active economic policy measures to raise their business in such a way that they can, without this law, increase their salaries to their employees. I don't believe I'm talking again... real employers who care about their employees, and yet such is the largest number that they would raise their wages if they were given the circumstances in which they operate. So that's where I agree with you. But when we talk about the tax reform that you mentioned, and you're also right about the fact that tax reform has significantly helped small entrepreneurs if it has reduced their profit tax rate from 20% to 12%, so when you see the revenues of the state budget in the profit tax section that it is growing, because on the one hand the base is reduced, but then it includes a larger base of taxpayers who pay the income tax. I can, therefore, agree with you in part that there is still a need to make an additional step towards the medium-sized entrepreneurs you mentioned earlier that should achieve this level because there is still the most of such entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64551	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64552	Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic would agree with you in the part where you say that entrepreneurs are the drivers of development. You'd agree with that. However, the fact is that all legislative proposals, both as drivers of development and who depend on the salaries of their workers and who are fighting for that salary, are the fact that we, both now and regional development several days ago, are essentially against these entrepreneurs, and in particular in areas that are underdeveloped. Instead of giving measures to underdeveloped areas through regional development, through this Law on minimum wages to keep people working in these areas to reduce the cost of workers and travel hundreds of miles and going to other countries, you say by law a few days ago about regional development that Drniš was developed. And now that they're competitions for entrepreneurs, that's why they're going to have fewer points, you know that. It is absolutely against measures against workers, workers, the people of that region and against demographic policies that should be essentially the same as you and the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister when he comes here, should be that the talent increases, not that we have old villages, empty villages, empty cities. Sinj, Drniš, Škabrnja, Gora Kotar, Zadar hinterland, Straight wheels you declared developed. And here we are talking about minimum wage. So who's going to work? There are no workers. If you continue like this in a few years if better laws are not passed, you can make a free 100,000 kuna minimum wage, but there will be no one to work except for something in Zagreb and developed regions. Were those policies social Democrats who also passed such laws by democratics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64553	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj for the replica. And my colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you are happy to observe the legislative regulation partially segmented as would be appropriate for you to replicate. But we should observe these days and other laws in the Croatian Parliament that go to those same areas with laws that will help develop these areas. For example, the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government of your Sinj which I am very pleased with and the region of Sinj,... I'll tell you now. [[I don't understand.]] It will provide 30 million kunas to colleagues in Metkovic and 25 million kuna when we speak further about this southern Croatia, will fill the budget from the income tax base in a way that they will then be able to adopt measures that will help entrepreneurs, which will allow them to be freed from any granting of communals prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government, will allow them to free the payments of those who start with their crafts or their businesses for a few years. He can also subsidize employees' salaries. Therefore, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government will enable a number of units of local self-government and Drniš, which you have mentioned, that he can now open up to his employers, or companies, companies operating in their territory, and especially those currently under the Strategic Investment Projects Act there, that they are also going with certain measures, subsidies and incentives to open jobs there. So when we look at some laws segmented, you might be right. But when you look at all the width of the measures prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then you can see that especially in these areas are significant measures that go towards improvement and the environment of employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64555	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64556	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bačić, you were actually speaking in your presentation about why this law is being passed, because the law that proposed then to the Kukurik coalition in 2013 did not actually meet the set goals and that is why this law is being passed. When it comes to minimum wage, it's also good to note. One part is related to the collective contract of those 10 years and the way in which the pay was then linked to the basis, that the basis was related to the calculation of the mandatory contribution and then the scale was created... What you also said, and yet to be pointed out, so during the Kukuriku coalition there was no social dialogue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we all forget, and that's what unions tell you the most in those four years. Even today, they probably do not remember the time when they speak and care for the rights of workers. And we actually cultivate this social dialogue, we conduct with respect and respect for talks with both partners and employers and trade unions. And it should not be disturbed with the mind and the fact that after the increase of salaries to state and public officials in September, a new cycle of collective bargain negotiations began. It is good to point out that this regulation is at a minimum wage level, that, in fact, in that part, those supplements are also exempt for difficult working conditions, which is night work, Sundays, working on a holiday or some other day that the law stipulates is not working, and that should actually be highlighted. They say this law pleases employers in part. What is harmful to the benefit of employers? It should be convenient in this situation and employers, as well as workers. I don't think that's bad for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64557	I thank my colleague Babic. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babic, thank you for reminding me, I forgot to say it. That's what I missed saying when I was speaking for the club. Here you are the first representative to remind me of that. The way this government cultivates a tripartite relationship, i.e. social dialogue between all social partners and between trade unions and employers. This should have been pointed out, because this law is partly the result of this particular government social dialogue with its social partners. This is good, and on this point, I would point out here that this relationship should continue to be nurtured, improved so that the laws that come here in the Croatian Parliament are in line with both social partners. That's one thing. And the other thing you've rightly noticed is that here this setting of minimum wages aside has been removed and those receipts that haven't been made for full-time, which is therefore overtime. It is work on Sundays, working on holidays, which will now also allow, in addition to the 5% salary increase, employers often do not put into minimum wage exactly those amounts that the worker made, but will be clearly separated from the minimum wage and that is a great achievement of this law. And when you mentioned this social dialogue, I also failed to say in a series of replicas to my colleagues on the left that it was precisely unworthy of their government, this lack of social dialogue with both employers and trade unions that we witnessed at the time of their government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64559	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representative club, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What's good is to discuss people's wages. Our club will, of course, support this law. I don't think it'd be anyone who wouldn't support it, no matter what the increase, it's always better to support the increase than the reduction. But, of course, I can't say at all that we're happy with this increase. No one's happy. Probably not the ones who made it, who suggested it, therefore, the Resolute Ministry, or the Government, and I believe that neither we all together. I believe that there is not a single man who would not want that minimum wage to increase significantly more. We've recently asked one question, one small analysis, counting on how long it would take if the family could survive at all. Some sort of group of estimates, that's below £4,000, that shouldn't be. So we asked the question, how do we get to that amount of £4,000? Today, we have indicators, which are positive. And when the work of the Government and those who manage the Croatian state is criticised, it is often neglected, that these trends that are now being shown, that they are positive and cannot accept the views, that all others are responsible for it, that there is absolutely no merit for the government and for those who manage the Republic of Croatia. If we analyzed, there would be very specific data, about the effects, about certain laws, that have been passed over these years and that have had positive effects. And that's just how you put it on the table. We keep talking critically. They say, some colleagues, to suggest something, all is well, while it is proposed very concretely, while it is proposed rationally and proposed reasonably. But, proposals, to propose, for some small political points, they don't do anyone any good and I don't think there's any more in the Republic of man who can actually buy something like that and take it seriously. 5% increase, excellent percentage, but the start is low. We've got a problem with the start. We started from a very low start, and that percentage of 5% basically carries very little nominally. I am convinced that the government will continue to work in this direction and will make every effort in the coming period, to increase significantly and pay at least in the Republic of Croatia. But I'm also asking myself, is the concept of minimum wage something that's good? Only a few EU countries have minimum wage. And when I think about it more deeply, I'm not even sure if it's a good idea to have a minimum wage. On the one hand, they want to protect workers who work, to get at least the minimum wage. On the other hand, we've actually underestimated and demoted those people who work for that kind of pay. Perhaps we should think more and more about whether today, when we are really looking at the problem and with the workforce in certain professions, we need a minimum wage in general, or whether we really need to leave the labour market to find a co-existence of employers and employees. On the other hand, we need to seriously think about, is today, is it time to seriously evaluate and see the possibility of paying gross wages to people? So that people make that pay for themselves. I know that's where all the systems in the Republic of Croatia are being violated. But this is a challenge that needs to be tackled and seriously thought about. Because this way, that we year by year, because we think we need some systems, which are unsustainable, we're practically going lower and lower. We're sinking deeper and deeper. They're radical things, but sometimes without radical moves, it's not gonna be anything. Some experiences say, here in the bill of amending the law, it led, of course, to worry about the dispensation of employers and often, employers, say that they cannot pay higher wages because they have too much burden. And the fact is, when we look at gross wages and net wages, that definitely the employer pays a lot, the worker gets a little bit. Is the state willing to give up one part of that income? And later get them increased by spending? And that's the question to think about. We have employers, who definitely used and used that minimum wage term, good fat use. Had it, to burden and damage to workers and to the burden of the state. We have those employers who are engaged in some kind of activity, which is really hard to sustain, and they're basically overstretched and I can't go forward. I can't pay anymore. They probably need to be provided easier business, given certain benefits, in order to get as much of that money directed towards the man as possible, towards the employee. There were also speeches here earlier in the discussions and replicas of colleagues from Bačić and other replicas about local self-government. Yes, an excellent effect of amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which has now allowed local self-government since 1.1.2018 that it can really go into certain discharges of business entities operating in their territory, absolutely that because it is not normal for legal persons, companies, craftsmen, to pay for larger communal duties than it is for citizens. There are cities that settled it. Unfortunately, they are rare in Croatia. But here's the chance. Let's get them out of here. Maybe it's the same thing that needs to be regulated by laws and made it impossible for someone to pay 40 or 50% more of the price of water than any man pays, and the same water, same tap. Why? Why would people pay a higher price? Or gas. Or something else. Let's see here a little bit, maybe in the amendments to the law, we can just deal with it by law, even these things. And there will already be some discharges. About 330 thousand people in Croatia, according to REGOS, receive a salary of less than 4 thousand or up to 4 thousand kuna. Let's compare the number of blocked citizens and compare this data, it's very easy to calculate what's going on. And it's real and normal that people with that salary simply can't meet their basic needs of life. Not only these 76s and some thousands that are covered by these amendments to the law but also those of 230 thousand that are up to 4 thousand kuna. They can't and that's why they go into dubious, so they go into loans, unfavourable loans, so they don't pay their overhead and everything else, and that's why they're partially blocked. Is there really no way to get tighter, deeper, go into this problem and really come up with this minimum standard that should enable every employee of the Republic of Croatia, every man who wants to work, who wants to get a job so that he can live out of how normal he is, that he can satisfy his minimum needs? Now I could say a sentence that would look and sound demagogue but really we in these 20 and 5, 6, 7 years have been very much turned towards building infrastructure. In that time, we forgot about the man. And it's a fact and it's not a demagogy. We've overprotected the man in the work and we've burdened him too little. Now, after a year of government work, this government, I believe that we are aware of it, and that, in that next period, it will really move towards citizens, towards people, because all of this is happening, especially in that part of the demographic problem, in a good way, about this. People don't have security, people don't have income, they're just looking elsewhere. And everything goes lower and lower, and then it's about leaving the area, dying of some parts of the Republic of Croatia, probably something similar would happen because people are usually moving to cities today, whether in Croatia, given outside Croatia, because it's much easier for them to meet their life needs, take care of children, raise children, educate them, it's easier for them. And that's one process that's going to happen. But resolving the issue of the minimum standard of citizens is something that is definitely the hardest job and the greatest task of every government. And I'll finish the team. Let's let go of the demagogue stories, let go of the criticism criticism, let's let go of the small political points, let's take on very concrete things, let's analyze these things, let the government give better suggestions, let's offer better solutions, let's make it but not just in the way of absolute saliva and self-critics and criticisms and all the next thing, there when something is done good, then let's say it's good and that it can always be better, that's for sure. Here we expect in our club that next year there will be new amendments to the law, that the problem of resolving wages in Croatia will continue to be resolved, that stronger, better and more acceptable solutions will be offered for citizens, of which we will ultimately benefit all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64561	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Hrga for this debate. We have two replicas, a respected colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64562	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, you asked one question in your debate, and I think that's one of the things that should be thought about in the future and that question of whether or not we should define minimum wage. So, this debate and everything together I think we should go in that direction, so we have what we have, this is what I'm experiencing as one measure, it's like burning fire and then you have one cup of water and with that cup of water you're putting out a fire. However, the key question is whether minimum wage should be defined at all, the key question of what is minimum wage and the key question is what will develop behind all of this because on the one hand you see the number of unemployed, and on the other hand we have unemployable people. Recently it appeared we have a chance to see where one ministry is calling people for requalification because therefore the problem of the workforce and the problem at all why people go away and the problem of a number of things has arisen. So the key question and I'd like to once again maybe take a few words on that subject, otherwise I don't think we should define minimum wage. I think we need to cheapen the work, I think the market defines certain conditions because that minimum wage is always a problem and is always a problem for the employer on the one hand, but on the other hand for people. And let's be honest and say that indeed from the minimum wage that is in Croatia today is difficult for anyone to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64563	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Yes, that's exactly what needs to be stressed, and that's exactly why I was saying this way to take advantage of this debate by opening up other possibilities, by putting these problems on the table, to see how some have solved it. Today's hit is Ireland in Croatia talking about it many times. They have a gross salary, every man pays his own. I know that this is difficult to achieve in Croatia because we are taught in a different way to function, but new generations are coming, young people are coming that are easier to adapt. And it is definitely necessary to put all of this on the table and analyse everything and see how the best way to finally get to the best solution for citizens to be more satisfied, to be safer, to form their families with greater certainty, to get married, to have children, to solve their housing issues. A whole series of measures can be taken starting with people living easier and better and beginning to think more positively in Croatia. I'm saying, all these days when we talk often it looks so pathetic, just to be told, but it's not like that. This is a tiny little measure like I said, it's a percentage ok, starting position small, miserable and simply has no nominal effect, but in any case it's some step forward. And this debate today and all that is happening will probably give some way to the ministry some new ideas, thinking about starting both in class and in some other models that should improve Croatia's social map.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64564	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64565	Thank you, Vice President. He's a colleague of the House. Your exposure was quite correct, in fact, I fully support you and that's how it is. When it comes to employers, they're usually thought to be all proud employers, all rich, all like this, all of them. Yeah, we've seen and monitored our employers for 25 years what's been happening to them, but nothing at all, nothing. They could drive Mercedes, BMWs, yachts, islands, anything, anything and no one controlled them. Then you have 420 thousand small employers who work 24 hours free to say, so I wrote myself something like this, a monumental rent of 100 squares costs you 2,700 kunas small... only 100 squares, then you have heating, water, electricity, advertising, draining and all the other things that the small employer let's say let's take one small shop, coffee shop or which is a mass of people and another plus rent that costs him about 20 thousand kuna a month. And now imagine one employer who enters in the morning at seven o'clock comes out at eight o'clock, thinks if someone came to him, the purchasing power we know the citizens is bad, but this employer has to pay off everything we're saying and one 20 thousand kuna to be minimum salary of 5 thousand kuna gross, 2 workers that's 10 grand, rent 4 grand and all this giving is over 20 thousand kuna, and often 20 thousand is small people. I'm asking you how can an employer give that salary and all the good? But I fully agree that this government is going cautiously, doing its job well in my view, not throwing away and giving a little more attention, and also those inspectors who go around right now are working on those little ones and they're being punished, not these. who spent and who threw... [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Misic.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64566	Thank you. Mr. Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64567	Yes, thank you very much, fellow Music. You of course as an employer immediately and put some concrete things on the table and that's what I said that mentioning the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government a good part of what you were talking about can be easily solved, really can. But I'm afraid it won't be possible to do that if, in some things, we don't solve it in various communal givings and services, a certain law... law, simply by law order me to say there can't be more expensive water for the legal person 40, 50% than normal water that is... I don't see any reason. Or, say, a connection or some of those taxes aren't there, but some of the fees that are paid. Why? So you get the more you spend, the more you get. So we have a whole range of various relief options, and I am convinced that today at a time when labour shortages are lacking, when there is practically a problem that a large part of employers especially smaller employers are pulling their hair off to find ways and opportunities to pay their worker's salary and give it if it takes a trip to send it somewhere, a daily how to simply get something. So let's law-demand that they don't have to pull their hair. Let's freeze some givings at some level and make people pay more in that section. And those who ride in Mercedes and some a little stronger cars that are full of honey mouths when they run down, and the workers have minimum wages. Well, they need to be dealt with a little harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64568	Thank you very much. Continuing the club debate. Mr. Stjepan Curaj, the club of representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64569	I thank the Vice President, the esteemed assistant, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will certainly support this bill. Of course, as has already been said many times, this proposal actually defines a minimum wage and prescribes a clear amount. And what is extremely important is what needs to be noted and I think it is crucial for all of our workers except for the net increase of around 130 kuna or gross 163 is that the employer's obligation in the area of minimum wage accounting, that is, equality in the management of the employer in the accounting of wages will be balanced by applying the right to a more favourable salary in the case of overtime, night work, work on Sundays, holidays or some other day. So there's absolutely one of these new laws that goes in favor of our own workers. Of course, today we have had the opportunity to hear different attitudes and so far it has been a practice in this House whenever you go with this measure something that should be improved there are always those who say you need more. Of course no one says they don't agree with this, but they need more. And I also agree that it is impossible to live for those proposed now who will be 2751 kuna that it is really at the border more or less what people do and who survive with it at the border of wonders. And of course only this increase won't dramatically change that. But even as colleagues from the SDP had their own proposal, that we can't do what they stated in their explanation for the whole climate and business and for investors, we can't make some big changes overnight. Because surely we shouldn't pass any law that will result in people losing their jobs. As long as people work for minimum wage, there's obviously a labour market that needs to be corrected absolutely. So there we need to make certain measures and the system to make that only the labour market dictates that less and less people are actually receiving minimum wage and that competition is such that people have to pay higher wages, that people's purchasing power is increasing and that the whole economic situation in the country is so much that the minimum wages are actually very low and that the labour-intensive industries that pay them are over, they have bigger salaries, but actually to reverse the little economic situation. I'll just remind you that in 2002, the minimum wage was 1800 kuna. In 2007, it's almost 2300, so to get there sometime in 2012 to 17, it means 2300, 400, and now here's 600 and finally 2750. The average salary in Croatia has been parallel since 2002. 3551 and 2007 4652, 2012. 5478, now 2017 for the first six months had 5900. So it is obvious that what was five or ten years ago only if because of nothing else because of inflation itself is no longer enough to talk about amounts and of course the labour market recognizes and pays themselves grow that it is no longer enough for some normal life. Of course, we're talking about that indexation compared to that average salary. And here, as I mentioned by my colleagues in the SDP, they predicted 45%, now it's going to be 42.9 something lower. But of course it must be that the intensity is increasing more and more that share in the average salary. Because we're really going to have a special thing going on down here in Slavonia, that we're going to run out of these labor forces, that some companies are simply not going to have an account anymore. Because the same employer is worth paying his salary in Croatia in the same country, let's say somewhere in Istria 5,000 kuna for a saleswoman, and in Osijek there's 3. Because there the price of his product is 50% higher, from 30 to 50%. In particular, I'm... which is based in Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're not employers who always go, they don't take advantage of workers. So they have to have their own bill. These measures here, let's say in this law, the biggest disputed is that relief which meant those who pay minimum wage. Of course he's got to get under his feet somewhere, so not everyone can get a break. It said that the state budget was being damaged by 250 million kuna. Yeah, it'll have less, but it goes in favor of employers. So it's a kind of incentive, which releases certain examples. So someone who only has a hundred employees on a minimum salary will have 124,000 according to kuna estimates more per year for their business, for investment in business, for an increase in end-line wages or something else to survive on the market. So we have to think about it. In fact, the people themselves, meaning 76404 of those who are currently receiving minimum wage, are likely to increase the number now and increase the rate of the class. Because there are also those we really need to think about, who now have a hundred kunas maybe above the minimum or 150, 200 gross. Most people will enter that minimum wage now. Those who have it go by law enforcement, and some will simply fall under it. But it's only for these minimals now, it's somewhere around 10 million kunas more annual spending in the Republic of Croatia. Be sure whoever's on the minimal I don't know the drop down if that one manages to save anything. Of course it's not really realistic and we really can't expect it. So all that amount will go into consumption. In that, of course, is VAT, so we already have a return here and some other economic effects that are going. To go back to the very meaning of the law. Of course we'll support any increase, but what I said isn't in itself, it won't mean anything revolutionary. Our lives and standards aren't going to change that much because someone's going to get 130 kuna more. But that direction we're going, we have to keep it. It has to be one rule that all investors, employers, will know that this will continue, that it will indeed come within three to four years to that 50 percent share in the average salary which is still slightly higher here than the minimum wage itself. But we don't want to be a society where most of our employees or one large number of our workers will actually work for that minimum wage. Only the market will determine that. What's gonna happen? Well, people will go on working. We've got car carriers who can't find a single man now, all go to work for a bigger amount of money. Well, no one is, so they're not just going unemployed. Those who can get more money for their work will go. And that's where the prices have to be adjusted, that market just has to make that correction that even what counterpart Mrak-Taritash said was that these minimum wages are at all one legal minimum that very little or no one even looks back on it. That's the goal. This is one of the steps towards that goal and those objectives to be supported. In fact, what we had still here mentioned, that these measures, the reliefs that amount to 104 kunas less for each employer, so now we can count on how they're going to be. Of course, it may lead to a weaker position for those who paid more. Yeah, someone who's paid 300, 400 kuna more than minimum wage has no use for this. But we're doing this to raise our salary, we're thinking about not destroying the system that's the most critical, and I know which branches pay minimum wages. First of all, in those working-intense branches. If there isn't one specific thing on the basis of 200 employees of a company that can deal with cleaning, it doesn't have to be just textiles or that industry. It would simply mean almost half a million kunas more cost per year. And a man might decide that he really doesn't have a receipt anymore, because he's got that half a million kuna maybe double the profits he gets a year. Either he's totally turning to the gray economy or he's shutting down and that 200 people are out of a job. That's one of the reasons, I believe why you get in those reliefs. But of course we can't limit ourselves to minimum wages and it won't bring us growth and nothing like the country will make us better. I made an example, and it really is. I don't just count at Croatia level that for the same job at the same firm at two different geographical sites someone has up to 40, 50% higher salary than a colleague who works in another town. But that's because you can sell a certain product there for 10, 11, 12 kuna and here and for 7 you can barely sell it. And here we have to think about the same and even development and ways of making it easier, and we have also said this in the new Income Tax Act how to make this even development, to create if we have to and certain tax havens in which places in Croatia will be more favourable and there will be more money for their work in order to stop emigration first in the country, and then, of course, what is a great danger for the whole country and outside the country. Because not only do people who don't have a job go to those who can get more money for their work. And when you pay your rent both when and when they're left with something that they can finally save and leave to their children and grandchildren and come back as they plan for 15, 20 years as it used to be in the '70s, it's just a matter of how many people we're left with and how many people are going to substitute them. If we do not have an economy that will support it and only the labour market regulates it, now all employers who can see that they have to pay more, and only when we look at the comparison between Osijek and Zagreb. In Osijek for the same work, for the same material, are we talking about furniture, carpentry, anything up to 50% lower price. In the building 50% lower prices than in Zagreb, for example. So here in Zagreb where raw materials and repromaterials are certainly more favourable to obtain or produce is 50% higher price than in Osijek. And the people of Osijek don't buy it, they even go across the border, where it's cheaper there again. And that's what this unbalanced development I'm talking about. And that's where we have to draw the line. Of course, then people can pay for this worker, the installer in Zagreb and 50, 60, 70% more than it is here. Of course, here are the higher cost of living, and that's the purchasing power that we need to balance and we need to achieve that momentum. Of course, the state here gives up 250 million kuna in favour of employers directly. They have fewer costs and that's what needs to be said. Of course, I wish it were for more and for those who gave more. But somewhere, there's got to be a line. So once again we support, any increase is a good increase. But only what in itself won't bring us anything new, nothing will change us much if we don't do the conditions and the markets that provide it in themselves. And that's actually the direction we have to go with a series of laws. One of those laws is I believe the one we had recently on income tax. Both in strategic investment and so on. etc. All of this must be one group measure that will allow us to earn decent wages and live normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64570	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica of Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64571	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Curaj, you spoke in your debate about the situation in Croatia. You were talking about how this is one of the measures that might, in some ways, help, maybe resuscitate the situation. And I have to admit, I'm kind of experiencing this measure as an answer to a series of questions that have been raised. But I'm interested in something else. You as a new coalition partner in the government, as someone who advocates liberal values and, in general, in this regard and in the development of the economy, I am interested in the contribution in which you intend to make as a coalition partner. Because what's certainly a fact, we can talk from this pay phone about a difficult situation. In Croatia we can talk about facts that are, we can look at Denmark that has a very strong tax policy but from these taxes a series of things is paid. We can look at Ireland and what a step it is to take in Croatia because we are all aware that such measures can improve the situation in the moment. It's like at sea to just get a little seasick. However, a really strong step must be shown, a strong story in order to make work cheaper, so that the full price of work is higher, for people to have something called safety. You know, at some other time, and under some other conditions, people had job security, they had pay security, they had pay-related security. And what we must offer young people leaving Croatia is security. One of the security is except for work, and other than working conditions, we must offer some kind of pay-related security, that they actually know what and how they are going to be in the future. Since the debate was not said until the end, you may say in these two minutes, what is the step you will offer as a coalition partner of liberal values in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64572	Okay. Replication response, Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64573	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague, Mr. Tarritash, I think we've mentioned it several times, and in fact, there's never been much in politics to mention more than once, because there's always someone listening for the first time. As for the particular role of the CNS in this government, you know, we have two ministries in the vault. One is your ex, the other is the Ministry of Education, where we put our priorities and that we are certainly trying to be a corrective factor in all others let's say the proposals of new laws and what comes from other ministries. Of course, we cannot affect everything according to our and proportional representation in the majority. What matters to us first and foremost, when we talk about both minimum wage and the position of workers, and then we need to talk about something that will come today, and that is the new draft law on vocational education. Something was waiting, but I don't know how many years, four years, and the funding of a billion kuna stands and no one means it's not going that way. It's something we've taken over and it's something we've decided. So, a billion kuna. Also 400 million kunas of European funds, it stood for the pricers of excellence and also, no one has cared about it for 4 years. We were in the coalition for four years, but you know how it worked. If we couldn't do much, like now, that you can't have much influence on other resors, but you choose what's most important to you, and you see that people and everyone else can recognize you. That's what we did in that government. Of course, we weren't happy with everything that went away. Maybe they weren't too happy with us either, but we did a lot of good things and that's the goal we want to do. That through certain measures in education, especially now the professional that will come, we produce people on the labour market both in high and high school education, that we certainly have no reason to talk at all about minimum wage, because everything that will result then will certainly be far, far paid and found places on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64574	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64575	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with most of what you've been saying. I agree with you that this minimum wage is as it is and as it will be, it still isn't enough. However, since we have a tendency to even need minimum wage, as long as we have employers who pay and workers who work for it, that category is actually necessary. Because without that category, there would be a possibility that some workers have an even lower salary than exactly this minimum one that's been given. On the other hand, you were also talking about the average salary, how it's changed over the years, and we see that the average salary has been growing significantly lately. On the one hand, it grows because total salaries in the Republic of Croatia are growing, and on the other hand, because there are fewer and fewer workers working for minimum wages. Especially in certain branches. Like construction, where more in some environments, you can't find workers at all, who will work for a much higher salary than average, not to work for a minimum. While, a few years ago, 3 or 4 were working on a minimum wage in that branch. So in a way, that correction of the market that exists that one good part works. And it's going in that direction to increase the wages in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64576	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64577	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Totgergeli, as far as minimum wage is concerned, I would be most fortunate if instead of 76,000 we had 7,000. Then we could talk if we need that law at all or not, even less. But today he had one picture, that we're very hard to find today for people who will work for minimum wage, simply because people aren't stupid. Who's going to work for 2600, 700 kuna? Here I am talking to a man the other day, he opened a craftsman, a builder, he goes, he makes a profit, he says in one, two percent, he earns that part. That's the point. And that's what I was saying about the labour market. Or God forbid what unfortunately happens when people do something on black, so they earn 2000 kn, they get certain social benefits, too, they don't want to work for minimum wage. It happens. You can't find a worker. And employers can't afford to pay them even more. And that is now what must follow that labour market, first of all the economy itself, that we can and must have adequately paid people for that job. And especially that disproportionate is important, which within this small country, which is, we have huge differences. But we're just across the street from Germany. My colleague, Sagar, mentioned something about Germany, so we're not laughing yet, we can't dare compare anything. As long as we have within the very land a great, huge difference between our Adriatic, our continental, our Slavonia, so absolutely like the sky and the earth. Like we're not in the same place. When I come from Osijek here to Zagreb, it's like I didn't come to the same country. Unfortunately. And that's what we should be working on. And we all, especially those who are there, don't whine, and tell us, give us, give us. It's sitting down and working, active, proactive. And it's precisely these minimum wage issues that become immaterial when they come down to the most possible minimum number of people who use it, because that's certainly what's going to happen to us. And the increase of these, of course, is what needs to be welcomed, as long as there is such a large number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64578	Thank you very much. We continue with the clubs and finally we will have Mr. Silvano Hrelja in front of the GLAS representative, especially HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64579	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Thanks for the nice announcement. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Minimum Payment Act. I will say something based on my long-standing experience in salary complaints, and I would like to resort to two sayings that were given, one few days before today, one today, so colleagues Lovrinović and colleagues Klaric who today have found that for the situation in Croatia, the minimum salary of five thousand kunas would be optimal, is something that would be worth fighting for because of these five thousand kunas gross, always talking about gross, when you take mandatory contributions for pension insurance paid out of a salary rate of 15 and a half thousand kuna, and if a single person is going to be in 200 kuna, because his 3800 kuna is an untaxable basis. So that would be acceptable for the moment. And I don't think it's that far and so hard, but we need to clear something up in our society. We need to clarify how much profits we have on unpaid work because I can't understand that some people deal in trade and pay their workers on a minimum salary, and we have one DM that announces the payment of 13 salaries, 13 salaries with all contributions, taxes and everything. That's allowed. I don't understand, does someone do bad work or does someone chew up profits? Secondly, I think in these 27 years, the Croatian state has all failed the exam because we did not look up to Western democracy and define what a minimum wage is. The minimum wage has very modest effects if we have defined it as the minimum amount that can be paid to a full-time worker, i.e. the proportion of that amount spent on work. I don't think that's any civilization reach, but in order for civilization's reach to be if social partners, therefore employers, representatives of workers or trade unions and states in social dialogue would say what the minimum wage is for, for which the four-member family needs it is sufficient and how much it should be. You know before, long before we colleagues from Italy, and their system I particularly dissipated had an addition to the expensive, or so on. The scalpels. This was the basis which the salary had to contain, only after which paid classes were upgraded. So the first thing we have to say is, that pay serves something, that minimum wage, and it can't be in collective agreements, we're making the lowest pay, so we're setting the lowest base, and then in the collective contract, we're negotiating a coefficient that's below the lowest base, which is 0.7, 0.8. People, if you contract in a collective contract, the lowest salary, doesn't go below that. If a minimum wage is paid here in social dialogue, then there is no below. I can be given to encourage employability, to preserve employment can be given incentives, it's not our invention. And counterpart Miranda released in his term the employers of payment of contributions, health contributions on salary, and all five years if they hired a worker indefinitely. So no new unknown, privileges can be given. Minister Maroni is to maintain the employability of older people freed people five years before retirement from paying 50% of the employer's contributions as well. So it's nothing new and it's possible, but we need to know what the goal is, what we want to achieve by doing, whether we want to have minimum wage and most of the employees in a minimum wage company, and the employer will accumulate at the end of the year and divide the profits into tens of millions of kuna. And we need to make that fact that in Croatia there is a lot of profits on unpaid work, on unpaid hours, on unpaid allowances and specifically on total unpaid work. That I don't share all my experience in wage bargaining when I think it's worth negotiating about 10 lipes when you're negotiating wages because what you're negotiating this year doesn't require next year. That's why this increase has its value, because next year it's not going to go from a lower point, it's going to go from this one that's going to go from that one that's going to be defined here, that I'm not sharing it, I would now look back a little bit on a concrete bill. Since I'm a little familiar with the arrangements between employers, trade unions and government representatives, I know that it's all been done in a hurry somehow, and I'd almost say in the timeline, and I know that no one here on all three sides is too pleased. Perhaps a more satisfactory employer is 7.5% of the benefits of this increase are acceptable to them, but let's just say that no one is overjoyed with these solutions. Given the circumstances in which this whole story took place over the amendments and the addition of the Minimum Payment Act, we will, on behalf of our club GLAS and HSU, give you one conclusion, that the argumentable social dialogue in this sense which I was talking about continues immediately and in terms of the development of a new minimum wage law in which there will be no only form, and the content will be in the regulation but will be both in the new law and that this business will certainly end by 15 November, before the adoption of the 2018 budget, therefore certainly before the adoption of the budget for 2019, because then it would be one logical sequence of things. We will also have some amendments, of course, where these supplements should include conditions or additions to difficult working conditions. I know it's not generally the same thing. That's what some employers have. But if that's paid, then I'm sure those extras shouldn't be in that minimum wage. And I would please, I have been begging you all the time since I've been here in the Croatian Parliament to advocate a simple but precise dictionary. So here we have in Article 1(4), or sentence 4 or I start reading it from half a sentence – a monthly basis for calculating contributions based on pay. I am very, very interested in that constitutional provision that Croatia was created on the basis of ZAVNOH opposite to NDH. I mean, people, so let's call it right... these are pay contributions. There are pay contributions and pay contributions. Let's call it a real name. So also in this context, simplifying precision, we're going to give the amendment to make it clear to everyone that these are pay contributions, not pay-based. I mean, who uses that language? Lawyers of use. Well, lawyers aren't the most sacred part of our society. This should be done by normal, normal people who need to know something about their salary and all citizens should understand what it says here. Here we are in the spirit of the composition of our club. I don't have any problem voting for this law since the unions said they had a lot of objections, but that this is a quality little step. Of course, I would like to see this conclusion as a contribution to the quality of social dialogue in Croatia and some of these amendments accepted. But I don't have a problem, but that's why the rest of the club will vote on their conscience. Therefore, as they believe they should decide on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64580	And now we continue with the replicas, speech to Mr. Hrelj's presentation, Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64581	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja in your debate, you have said one misunderstanding, which is that you are personally for this law, and that the other members of the club will vote on their conscience. That means you're the only one for, and the rest will be against it or how? Try to explain a little bit, to be perfectly surgically clear in front of the Croatian public. And another thing that I agree with you is that the law should introduce the height, not that people are terrified, they are waiting, they are watching what the government's proposal will be like before every Christmas, but that it's simple to know what it is, when it's going to be brought into line with what values it's going to be, and so that people are fully aware of how much next year and that year behind it will be the minimum wage, which is inadmissiblely low in the Republic. And nothing can cover it, not a single proposal, not a single explanation, not a single retrospective, which has been over the years. The fact that our people deserve, as well as anywhere, I would say in the EU. And there's one incorrect piece of information, which Bacic, from HDZ, said we were in the middle. We're not in the middle, not even close, 8, 10 says counterpart Bacic. We're at the bottom. We and Bulgaria are at the bottom, at the level of minimum wages in the EU and Croatia and its citizens simply don't deserve it. And 60% was some appropriate amount of average salary, which Croatian citizens should have guaranteed, guaranteed as minimum wage. Which is at some level 3500, 400, 500 kuna, which is 400, 500 kuna more than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64582	Mr. Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64583	Dear colleague Maras, I am pleased to agree on what you have pointed out and to estimate that the minimum wage in Croatia is low. I would point out that this should also be the lowest agreed basis in collective agreements, to which they are upgraded, and then, certain levels, related to the increase in salaries based on professional training, i.e. job requirements, and not to have a high-level employee working on minimum wage. So it really doesn't make sense and it's a nakarad system, that is, a system that simply exploits work and workers for personal profit. As for the functioning of our club, the operation is very liberal, but you know that before, before, at all, you called the board at 8:30 that I couldn't consult anyone that day and that I voted independently for this law. But I don't want to impose on anyone else that someone else at the club should vote for this law. But I also don't want to wake anyone up at 7:30 how to act on the Labour Committee. But I am sure that the decision of my colleagues will be crucial, that the Government will be directed towards our amendments, that is, the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64584	Thank you, too. Second replica, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64585	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Hrelja, listening to you and a gross salary of 5000 kn, a pure mistake. Very badly done. Why? When you have 5,000, and somewhere the salary should be 3,000, I would agree to be 5,000, but that from 1500 if we give the state, you could pay 3,000 to the workers. Then up to 5,000 to be able to pay off, but to give the state up to 1,500 no more. And in this case, it would be a lot more. The other thing, the tall cook's not at the minimal, you must know that. The minima of high gear is 4000 and about 200 kuna. So it's not right either. You're comparing DM to our companies. That when, I'd say, this is how you compare Mercedes if it goes 200 and Fitz is 100. DM came with 100 million kunas of our market, and our man... Ten thousand kunas and he's trying to resist these rich companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second thing, you've got our textiles, our hairdressers, our little craftsmen. So you know what it means for them, to give 5000 kunas pay with donations? Very much so. Imagine that, and there are six hundred and twenty thousand small craftsmen at most. So I think I still think that what is now being done in the Croatian state and that now this government has brought a gradual increase that and a reduction in state giving is this good thing that has been done. Although entrepreneurs asked me, so it's not good why it got up, they don't know that 150 kunas will be taken away. Of course it's small, of course it's small, but we must gradually develop if we haven't boasted these 25 years we would have had a much better standard today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64586	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Hrelja's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64587	Dear fellow Misic, I did not say that if you noticed and were careful that this was something very bad, but it is not good enough, and in the end I said that I would support it and that I supported it on the board because it is a method of small steps, but it is not something that would satisfy Croatian society and some vision of the development of Croatian society. And in the vision of the development of Croatian society, there must be pay policy. I'm just telling you something that's eternal truth, it's invaluable to fight for the low goals, so it's up to us to strive that one day we'll all drive in Mercedes, make progress, compete with those who are better than us, learn from the experience of others because I think it's a real fortune if we have the ability to learn from experiences or from the experience of others. So I think this can't happen overnight, but look, we've already set up a system that would match this number we've told. We set up a system of non-taxable salaries of 3800 kuna and boasted that people would get more. What of the 3800 kunas of the untaxable receive the users of minimum wages? Nothing. You could've put an untaxable amount on them at 10 grand, they don't get anything out of it, they don't pay taxes anyway because they're below 3800 kuna, out of 3100 subtract 650 kuna contributions and that's what they get at hand and they have to live with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64588	Thank you, too. Mrs. Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64589	On another aspect, absolutely as someone who knows how difficult it is and how hard it is to live many of our citizens and how much this minimum amount will mean to their standard, I must warn of a problem that we are not talking about today, which is from 250 million kunas that will be less paid to HZZO and that is just the beginning. So the minister in charge announced that the minimum wage from the current 43% will rise to 50% of the average salary. Yes, but it is not known how many people, over 76,000 covered by this measure, will be covered by this measure when going to 50% and what it will cost the health system. We know that we are 8.2 billion kunas in minus, I don't see at all a proposal for any measure to solve it, it's a big problem, a problem that obviously has to be solved through several governments where there has to be a consensus of all. We have not received a start within the year from the minister, nor any indication of how it will deal with it, obviously partly perhaps Minister Maric. But with this 250 million rebalancing, you gave a billion to cover the cost of the drugs 250 million will be a major blow to the health system in Croatia. Was that the way it was supposed to be? No, I don't. for your example, it's more than enough money to pay for your children's medicine to resist spinal muscle atrophy, so that all children get spirnasis, and we know that one part of them won't meet the criteria. So we're easy to play with a system that's very tight in debt, and that's why fellow Hrelja support is raising minimum wages, but how do you comment as someone who knows how hard it is for our pensioners to live on how hard health care is sometimes available to them, think of both the solution and this way by taking from the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64590	Thank you. Mr. Wanker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64591	Dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić I share your concern about the functioning of the health system because however some measure is designed, and this is not only a feature of this government but also of the previous Government, I remind you that I have been here for almost 15 years, has always been a health contribution on the salary, and this contribution on the salary is a health contribution, are these others for employment, etc. which are also some vital functions and I really share your concerns. It turns out that additional healthcare is paid only by those pensioners "rich" who have over 5108 kunas who double pay their liabilities. They made 30,000 salaries of 75 million kuna annually of an additional health contribution of 3%. So they're the only ones in Croatia who pay twice and then when they have solid salaries, pay high contributions, pay taxes, pay additional health insurance and still pay 3% of the health contribution. So I used this replica to point to another illogicality, but I really do have an understanding of your replica, and I understand that I don't need to switch everything to be able to come up with other help and at the heart of the contribution unless it's considered forbidden subsidies, and that's what we have to take care of. But I agree that everything doesn't have to definitely go to a health care system that itself is in big trouble, you know it best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64592	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, you've said one thing that is very important to me here throughout this whole story and we've been trying to make it clear all morning. So the question is, do minimals pay off those entrepreneurs who, on the other hand, make very serious profits? If that's the case, then who is the arbiter, who is this institution, does there even exist in a modern society, a modern society who would analyze this situation? And are there control mechanisms that would expose it? There's a problem. And the additional problem with this law is next. So it's not a self-incentive problem. The problem is that this incentive opens up space by speculation of entrepreneurs. Some entrepreneurs who will be wicked will try to take advantage of it. So, those who don't pay minimum wages now will come into a situation that next year calculate that maybe wages that are close or somewhere around a minimum reduction to a minimum and then use this 50% non-payment incentive for a year after that. Who's the victim? Again, workers, not these 76 thousand who are already a victim in themselves, but some new people in some of the companies where they are now receiving higher wages, something greater than the minimum wage. There's a key problem with this law. Laws that leave holes, laws that leave space for speculation are not good laws. It's a key message.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64594	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64595	Dear fellow Greeks, you know well, since you are as former minister and vice president well aware of the state's functioning mechanisms. You know well that there are services, there are institutions that are in charge of this. The Minister always has the right to write regulations governing certain areas, and services and labour inspections, tax services should do so. Instead of looking at which inn is the size and traffic, I think we should pay much more attention to whether someone on the one hand accumulates profits and on the other hand keeps workers on the minimum. That's twice as important. It is also morally important that people who seek holes in the system do not use and do not create additional profits, because then it is not only a question of how punishable it is if it is by law, is deeply immoral, deeply unfair and deeply corrupting the setting of any fair relations in society that should be the social justice society or social state. So I think we have all the institutes that we can carry out this control, it's just a matter of how many states they want to activate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64596	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the clubs. The last club is the HSS Club, Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64597	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with the co-worker. The Croatian Peasant Party Club has already spoken several times from this speaker about the problem of small wages in the Republic of Croatia, about the need to raise minimum wages in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the adoption of the state budget, and today through replicas. And to warn of a difficult situation, I used the folk proverb “Sit of the hungry does not believe. ” I didn't want to hurt anyone, but I wanted to wake us all up and remind myself of the difficult situation of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, the difficult situation of workers in the Republic of Croatia, and that we all asked ourselves whether we had done enough to change such a situation. This law and this increase of 131 kuna minimum wage is a small step, but too small and so I say enough hungry doesn't believe it. That'll tell you those people who'll get that raise minimum salary of 76,000. They're of course gonna accept those 130 because I need every kuna. But it's not enough for them to live. You know what they say? I'm looking for a solution for a new job, and if unfortunately it's not in the Republic of Croatia, I'm going out as my neighbor, my friend, my best man. That is why the Croatian Peasant Party is asking us to take this problem more seriously so that the minimum wage must be higher. We have proposed in previous discussions that this must be at least 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia at this time. We see the unions are looking for 60, 65%. Other parties are also seeking an increase. And the key question is why does 76,000 workers in the Republic of Croatia receive minimum wage? Did we ask ourselves that question? What kind of companies are these? What sectors pay such minimum wage? Is it so necessary that they pay minimum wage due to the environment, because of the situation in the sector? Or are there companies who are in a position to pay higher wages and not pay because they speculate? Surely there are because that's what union representatives agree on, and some employers wrote to the government that not all employers who pay minimals in the same situation and that some deliberately pay minimum wages, and then hide that income through other ways, and don't pay even the profit tax. Therefore, we ask that this minimum wage must go to 50% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia at this time because if the share of minimum salaries could grow and be 55.2% in Slovenia, 56 in Portugal, 56% in Bulgaria, then the Republic of Croatia and we all need to find ways to make minimum wages grow in Croatia. It grew from 2007 to 2017 only 19%, while in the Czech Republic it grew 46% in Slovenia 69%. And yes, we cannot compare ourselves in everything with European countries, but it is strange that we are eight per share of workers who receive minimum wage compared to the total number of employees. The fact that we are also ahead in the part when it comes to the actual individual consumption of citizens, our real purchasing power, that we fell to 58% of the average purchasing power in the EU, that even Romania has reached us, and that together with Bulgaria and Romania, we are making that three at the bottom of the real consumption of citizens in relation to purchasing power. If we add that there are similar percentages in the former Yugoslavia, the average wage in Serbia is 45% of the EU average, Montenegro 52%. Why isn't he in Croatia? And when I repeat those data that I said, to the differences within Croatia, that the average income per capita in Gunja is 2,700 kuna, and in St. Sunday 43900 kuna. Why have we allowed such differences within Croatia? Yes, counterpart Bacic is guilty of both HSS and HDZ and SDP and all parties, but citizens expect this government, which for a year has led the Republic to more concrete and serious steps to reduce the risk of poverty in the Republic of Croatia, and it is very high, and the biggest 80% is the risk of poverty in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and it is not a much better situation in Podravina and Lica that I do not go any further. And that's what HSS requires, yes, by increasing workers from 131 kuna and employers 295 kuna and again on the burden of health care, the Health Fund and the question of how the health system will function with reduced income, and through this we have reduced 20 million kuna to the Employment Fund, and we want to employ people in the Republic of Croatia. These models are not good and it really is a question of when there will really be more serious salaries in the Republic of Croatia, because I will remind you that 250 thousand workers receive a salary of around 3.5 thousand kuna in Croatia, and we said 76 minimum. The government boasts of GDP growth, but workers expect to feel it on their incomes, on their continent, on their own account when it will happen. You know what employers say? Why don't you raise your salary and why don't you dare raise your salary? First, because not everyone is equal in front of the law in Croatia. Here I am not just going beyond the example of Agrokor, while on the one hand we have a terrible tax and administrative pressure on small craftsmen and entrepreneurs, every day there comes some sort of inspection or control and they get it because they don't have a big P, but a little p on the bills they pay high fines, with other big ones who have models that don't get around the law or they don't come in, or the reports are cut or their sentences are forgiven, or they go into obsolescence, which is the most common case of staying somewhere in the drawer. For this reason, concrete measures are being asked of us by the government to help, including those resolutions that we have all discussed today, wood, construction, trade, textile concrete measures for these sectors to improve the situation and how to enable wage growth, how to increase personal consumption and the standard of living of citizens. The proposal is for the HSS to disburse the salaries of the largest number of workers in Croatia receive a salary somewhere between 5 and 7 thousand kuna, so let's disburse those salaries. You and the last tax reform relieve the citizens in that segment in that range of salaries of 150 to 200 kuna, and those who have paid 20 thousand kuna they have received a disbursement of 5 thousand kuna. E for that model HSS isn't. Let us dispel these salaries up to 7 thousand kuna and then employers and hire and raise salaries and we will raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and Croatian workers. We are in a situation that because of such low wages we have a somewhat competitive economy as financial experts say. But we did lead to a model that the boss taught the horse that with a little food or no food working, so he died, we got into a situation where we don't have a worker, that we have to bring in 29 thousand workers. And where do we get them from? Will they come work for the minimumer? So if there are foreign workers and good wages for foreign workers then let us pay the Croatian man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64598	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, the first Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am very glad that your party HSS also advocates a more significant increase in the minimum wage, and especially that you said that you are favouring a 50% increase, which is about to come up with that proposal that the party Change Croatia has made from 4 thousand kunas net, so that's the real proposal. But I want to ask you that really a worker lives more dignity and that let's say one new optimism, but that other things adapt to it. Say the subject, you've voiced criticism about this increase that looks like crumbs from the desk to the workers, which, in your opinion, is why? Do you think this government doesn't know how to increase to 4000 nets or 5 grand gross, or can't? And if I can't, do you think someone is defending them or someone else's interests are protecting them? Here I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64600	Thank you very much. Here's the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64601	Well, colleague Lovrinović, I said no one can live and settle their expenses with such a minimum wage in Croatia. Neither the secretary of state, nor I, nor the minister, nor any of us, nor that worker who receives minimum wage. And I said that the union basket currently costs about 6,700, 6 thousand 700 kuna in Croatia, if we add the costs of education, travel or don't give God culture and sports, it's certainly much more and with such a minimum salary he can't live because, and 80% of the people in the survey said that because of the small salaries and small minimum wages he leaves the Republic of Croatia and that we need one more serious approach in terms of raising minimum wages. That it takes a more concrete and quality analysis of why some pay minimum wage, that's what the trade unions and some employers say, that they're not all in the same position. And we're accused of buying cheap political points from the HSS. I think exactly the opposite is that this increase before Christmas, 131 kuna is exactly a populist way of accessing the government to this problem and that it should be much more serious to approach the problem, to talk to both trade unions and employers but also to those workers, because they would certainly learn much more and have better quality solutions for all sectors and for wood, and textile and construction, and... Thank you. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64602	Thank you, too. The second replica, Mr. Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64603	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is my colleague Vlaovic, I definitely agree with you, that this step is taken here according to the economic growth that we have in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, and the response to colleagues from HDZ who presented this as a big step. It is not the same situation today when we are on the threshold of 2018 and the situation that was in 2012, 2013. It's to anyone who has the basic knowledge of the macro-economy, the economy, if you will, quite clearly. So, the moment is actually bad, we're sending a bad message to people, unfortunately 131 kunas no one will refuse it, that's what you said. Unfortunately, however, it will not help anyone, nor much, we could have some minimum that we should have had is 50% of the average salary to come really to the middle of the European Union, which, unfortunately, we are not, but what you said in your own debate, our society is now Bulgaria and Romania. That Romania is even stronger by the parity of purchasing power. And then it's hard to expect even this import of labour force and these permits that are approved, I don't know who will come from the European Union to work in Croatia how much longer will they actually earn here than they can earn in their own country? So, they'd rather stay in their country, work, create, because there with that income they'd be able to buy more realistically than they can in Croatia, but about that. You also mentioned these tax reforms. I certainly agree with you from these benefits there are only 3% of the population, unfortunately these are the richest layers, they have no benefits for the unemployed, neither do those who receive minimum wage. The minimum benefit comes from what you yourself mentioned in that income class, which is the most numerous in Croatia between 5 and 7 thousand kuna. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64604	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64605	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague, that GDP is growing in Croatia, and that should be recognised. It even grows on pillars bigger than the rulers expected. They also said that it is based on a good two seasons of tourism, that it is a growth in demand and our exports and that it is a personal consumption. Well, that is why I have also discussed that these sectors, and one of the great exporters is the woodworking sector, deserve more attention from this government and that there must be ways to help these exporters, to save this woodworking industry in Croatia somewhere around 40,000 workers work within it. And we often hear their criticisms that the policy of placement of the raw materials of the hulls did not adequately protect domestic production and that here is the largest part or a good part of the goods ended up in exports to Italy or other European countries without real control. And that processors or as they like to say, finalists don't get enough raw materials. It is now just one of the segments that can help these branches where the lowest wage in the Republic of Croatia is and surely they have to raise salaries in the Republic of Croatia and you hear it when you talk to both workers and trade unions. If the gross social product is growing, the state's income is then it's up to the workers to remember it. But not just the workers, but the pensioners on their terms and accounts. And of course, even in future tax reforms, they must take care of it and help us to have as few workers in Croatia as possible with a minimum wage and make it as close and appropriate to the cost of living in the Republic of Croatia as possible. And we see that we're behind. We lost about two percentage points in that personal consumption, that's what the Economic Institute found and they say they need to start the alarm, just by ruling it out is good. I don't think it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64606	Thank you very much. The last replica of Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64607	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. So when it comes to one measure related to the increase of minimum wages, of course, to open a series of things. I'd like to mention a few things. The first thing is the growing population that absolutely lives in Croatia and this is one measure of pulsism ahead of Christmas and New Year's Eve. We have one measure that will look good, it will help some, but we have seen a series of measures where actually the poor only become poorer, and the rich become just richer. And in this regard, we introduced something new into our dictionary, which is that instead of the poor, we speak the most needed because it seems good to us. But it should be made clear that we are actually talking about a purely populist measure that will echo well. But it's like that, it won't help you much, but it won't help you much. But we have a problem, a real problem, how to restore security to our citizens. The real problem is that as few young people move out as possible because we can increase the workers' quota and eventually come, it will come once and for all. But the question is, what can we offer? Because if we can't offer our people and our people are going out, what can Croatia offer in that sense? I heard this spring here from a young family who had OPGs who offered a daily 350 kuna to cut their haystacks and there was no one there. And what did they decide? They decided to buy a machine that would do it alone. So we have a basic problem. On the one hand, keep the people of our citizens here, but if we do know that we need the workforce we're going to import, then we need to be the country for this workforce they're going to come to. And in this way, we are not going to become such a country with this series of populist measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64608	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64609	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues that it is not good and we are sad and sad that young people are leaving the Republic of Croatia and I will repeat, most of them said that they are leaving Croatia not even because there are no jobs, but because there are small salaries in the Republic of Croatia and they do not see that security and the future for themselves and their children. And what's even sadder, is that they don't leave the family's owners anymore than the whole family leave. And the largest part today in Slavonia and Baranja, but you also have in other parts that you have half-empty villages and that you have reportedly sold on houses. And it's not just a family house, it's an entire estate. How do you change that? There are models, there are other practices in the environment that we need to apply to us and adapt to our system. The question is, do we have the strength and will to do it? I think we must find strength and will to do so, because these 29 thousand workers will find it hard to find work markets, because I will not say to come to work in Croatia for such minimum wage and for the average salary that is in Croatia, but will primarily look for jobs in Germany, Austria, Slovenia, which is leaving our environment. And on the other hand, we won't be able to charge either this or the health fund or the pension fund because there are no workers. Already the ratio of one employee, one retired. What awaits us in 10 years is around here, but in 10 years as our demographers announce our demographics will be even more empty and therefore this is the final moment to take more seriously into the wage policy and to increase the minimum wage more seriously and to disburse the economy so that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia can grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64610	Thank you very much. We're done with clubs. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretary, here we have seen another populist act of government that is nice to hear and nice to hear that the minimum wage increases. In recent days, however, we have passed laws all against encouraging entrepreneurs, mainly in underdeveloped areas, to maintain and invest in these areas, and to invest in these areas, and this is what the witness here this morning I was speaking at the station of the Regional Development Act that was changed where even during that law when the debate was here we didn't even have a table that local units in this law had developed, which were undeveloped. In order for entrepreneurship to develop in these areas, we must first of all have incentive measures, and from this law, there are encouraging measures where people entrepreneurs want to invest in these areas to make people earn, to survive and work. However, you have declared Drnish, for example, that law. developed. Why did you declare him Gospić, Plitvice Lakes, the entire hinterland of Zadar? So you've declared developed areas where no one's around, and there you can raise your salary as much as you want. You can have 100,000 kunas, but no one will come from the entrepreneurs. No one because whoever is running for projects primarily doesn't have enough points, will not pass the project and will not be co-financed for these parts that have been declared undeveloped. One pamphlet politically brought here, which is the continuation of what the Greek minister put in 2014, you continued and killed 2/3 of Croatia. You stick nail into workers, in these areas, in the development of infrastructure in these areas. And by these means that we're now talking about raising wages, that's nice to hear. It's nice to hear about such a small amount. But I'm telling you one more time. Both the President of the Republic and the experts, and the prime minister, and the ministries are all calling for a demographic picture, for the eviction of Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Ravni Kotar. However, Drnish has been declared a developed end, Drnish. So was any of you in Drnish except for the days of the ham when the desks were simply swept away by officials as a broom? Have you been to Drnish? It's burnt ground. In Lika, Gospić, Plitvice Lakes burned ground. You have no one to raise your salary for, no workers. I would really ask that these laws that you have passed in this pre-Christmas time that it is nice to hear that we have, the Minister came here recently as a Grill last week with an incomplete law where only the next day is published a list of those who are in support, and those who are not helped are they undeveloped and developed to get under emergency if you don't, we will propose it. It's an injustice. It's a cry. There are no workers down there. That's one thing. On the other hand, we look at these workers in Croatia who have worked and earned their salary, so we have this bankruptcy law. So I'm going to name some companies, for example. The designer of people worked, earned their salaries, Dalmatia wine, Kamensko, numerous Slavonian companies and that worker will not get his salary earned, it is a cry to heaven. We're talking about a hundred kunas here, and the workers who didn't earn, who earned their salary, will go to the believers in bankruptcy, the different believers. And these people are on their way now I don't know where and their kids. Therefore, this law is one pamphlet as well as all the directives we apply here but in those directives you never wrote that we have the same salary as the minimum in Germany, at least medium, but we are at the level of Romania and Bulgaria. Oh, my Lords, my dear! Here we look at the companies that we brought here after the privatisation, let's say T-com or HT. And that worker that was firing her was, and their biggest profit is here. There's no workers, very few jobs, there used to be 20 workers in the field, and now we have one. And of course the winnings are coming out. Also, a number of billions come through banks, through banks, so four billion kunas each year draw us out of fee and commission banks. Four billion kunas are invested in countries where these banks are from and of course they invest in their own countries and that our people are going to work there with our money. I'd still say that in this law 250 million kunas torn from health care, I don't really know if these lights were too radiant? So do you know what kind of health care is in the areas, here's a worricorn end, for example. Do you know what home of health is like? And those decentralised funds you're sending, you're decentralisation into the county there's a diagnostic device in a second world war lab. We don't have specialist doctors. We don't have diagnostic devices in Dalmatin Zagora. It's the same thing in Lika. And now we're taking that part away from health care. The fact is, we're talking about an increase in salary here, every increase is good. However, in other laws, at least adjust them according to some demographic standards. Well, at least those areas, that entrepreneur who comes to Drnis has some kind of benefits, and not Drnis, declares Drnis more developed than London. Hey, you called Drnish "developed"?- I'm sorry. Well, you've declared the ivy of cliss undeveloped. Have either of you been to Blissljanov? So do you know that you have declared the end a developed one? Some few children left, more old people dying, schools empty. I've said an example now. Well, you've declared Skabrnja a developed place. The missus even the sixth group, the sixth Gospić. You've put the missus on the level of London. So you simply made it impossible by law for the entrepreneur to invest and that the worker would receive his salary in that area which would reduce the costs of both the entrepreneur and the worker but the worker where he lives would, where he lives where he has his hearth would stay there and he would work there. So there's too much populism from this government. The same has been done by social democracy as now the democracies, therefore, stop the population that is ruling in the Republic of Croatia because 2/3 of Croatia have moved out and certainly will not be able to handle the Republic of Croatia. For what? I'll repeat again in a few years, and that and less time, you can freely pass the minimum wage law of 100 thousand kuna, in 2/3 of Croatia there will be no one to work. And you have O.P.G.s, at least if you encouraged the O.P.G.s, you'd have that workforce. You're Agrokorov's sister companies, i.e. Todoric doesn't mean who they encourage. And so now you've passed the law that in 2020 must become their wish, the ownership of foreigners. You made everything so the people could move out. Do not stick the last nail in the box 2/3 of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64612	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. First Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64613	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Bull, I can't say that you're wrong about many of the things you've said. You spoke of both burned countries and the departure of young people and the collapse of workers, entrepreneurs and others. I'll tell you a story from the elementary school, which I taught there, and it was about a food chain that went from one hawk to that last worm in that triangle down there. At the top of the food chain was the minister in our case or the minister. So, the minister is upstairs, the floods have happened, the country has not been burned, and it is necessary to join the restoration of Gunja and its surroundings. So who's gonna do it? Well, of course, it'll be the first to come to a party friend and one who's like that. So he comes and takes over the rebuilding of the house from the foundation to the roof. Since he's not smart enough but he's been taken, to bring an end to that story he takes himself small entrepreneurs, craftsmen who will be his roofers, founders, facades, this, this, and he sells them a job. They continue to perform in such a way as to make the smallest offer to get a job. The smallest offer is what it is, the one they will hardly respect and charge. Who's getting hurt here? That little unpunished, worm than in our case a worker who's going to get 3,000 kuna on paper, 2,000 kuna will get under his hand. As long as someone gets a job there's got to be other obligations, that's where the flats need to be restored, then the poor one can't be charged by the one who gave him the job as in the conflict of interest poor. And that forgets 100, 500 thousand kuna what it is for the poor. Now, that's why our workers would work for 5,000 kuna, 3 on paper, 2 on black when 300, 400 km away is allowed to work for 2,000 euros and then he sits in Slavonia on a bus and goes to Germany and works for 2,000 euros and he's calm.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64614	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. Culey, time's up. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64615	Comrade Culey, here I am going back to my end. You have an example of the constructor of a number of companies that could build highways, didn't build highways, and the paints were afraid of highway tunnels at a great price. At a high price, so Croatian Željezara, so Željezara Split in Kašteli had nowhere to go with her iron. At the same time, a gram of iron is not placed in Croatian highways from Croatia. So it's so many companies of ours that have been because of lobbys that have favored from tunnel paint to I don't know what they've favored and destroyed by Croatian workers. Foreign investors were being introduced. I don't have anything against anyone, but the fact is that the constructor was a company that was renowned and such countless companies. There were foreign introductions, foreign materials being invested, even pipes being placed on this pipeline mafia was imported, although our producers had much more quality pipes. That's why they've been ten times as expensive highways per mile as they're supposed to be. And where's the money? So the money was robbed that was supposed to be the Croatian worker in his pocket. It's a fact and we all know it. And now, after all, instead of working there, having paid, building his house, building his life, he basically just moved out. Now more can he raise the table, we can raise a hundred thousand kuna pay when it's declared... The developed, multivo or I don't know the backdrop of the Zadar-developed landscape is not going to come because there's no advantage. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they're developed places. Sad, true, 2/3 of Croatians are extinct because of so far's robberies and forgotten workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64616	We were skating a little bit over time. Thank you. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64617	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, when you mention it, it means workers who will be from this new contingent of these 29 thousand people who are coming. How long has he been coming to see you in Sinj? How much do your companies need to hire new people? How many of you don't have people at the Employment Service, so you need to make up for them? How many major economic operators are crying out there for labour? Do you all have big wages there, and then people will respond, come live in Sinj? What are these measures being taken? Or is it actually all this together that I asked, is that those 130 kunas? Is that the measure that you really need there and that will trigger both the economy and everything that I've actually mentioned? But I'm looking at the execution of the budget now half-yearly which was also income from non-performing labour tax, I believe in fact that there are wages so small that there's actually no change. Unfortunately, it did not happen that Sinj City had lost significant resources. It didn't happen that people got richer, that new activities started, but we're discussing 130 kunas for those who were 12 months on the minimal. How many more people have the patience to spend 12 months on a minimal to welcome 130 kunas more? So the rule is, after that, it's better to keep someone at minimum for 12 months to get something after that. Can't we just give them something and more right now so we don't have to argue at all like this? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64618	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64619	Thank you very much. Yes, we have an economic zone in Sinj. But it's empty. Why? Because there's a highway that's very important for the development of Dalmatia, but there's no connection to the zone. To Sinja's compound on the highway and of course she's not desirable. And they're still declaring us a developed neighborhood, and we've got 100 million kuna in the zone, into a infrastructure that can actually be used. We're giving the amendment here and coming neatly to the ministers, the government, prime minister on the alk all neat. We're friendly. But just like you in Slavonia that you have unprocessed fields not by blaming the peasants, but by favoring the OPGs that were owned by Todorovic or someone else irrelevant... Because if it were to be invested in your peasants then it would certainly have been processed by their fields, their land, and surely you would have full of your villages, schools, infrastructure, it would have been a child's cry in birthplaces that we hear less and less as well as in my cetinal end unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I expect at least minimum courtesy not to be this government so populist that it admits its mistakes. Declare Drniš by developed end or Sinj, or I don't know which area or Plitvice Lake, or Gospić even more developed in the 6th group, so it's embarrassing, embarrassing. So they announced a year of regional development indexation, eventually stuck the last nail in the coffin. So once again, I ask publicly, here you have set up a replica for me to urgently initiate a procedure to amend the new Regional Development Act. Worse than the worst given by Minister Greekic in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64620	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64621	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj supports you in the fight against populism because it is evident that you are persistent and that you do not allow the population to wave in the Republic of Croatia and so should continue. But what I wanted to say and what I think is more important, to point out and give your opinion about these 130 kunas. It's even more embarrassing than what you said earlier, and you said that Drnish was put at the London level in law, that he was developed as London. So this is a more embarrassing fact, and please support the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, which will require that the minimum wage be at the level of 60% of the average salary, which will amount to about 3500 kuna net, which will certainly help people much more than this church and the small amount intended for them by HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic, supported by all those who support that policy of the ruling coalition. And as for the fight against populism, keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64622	Answer, here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64623	Comrade Maras, we can put a minimum wage on Drnis, there's no one to work. There are no workers. A great contribution of course to this is the Regional Development Act because entrepreneurs do not, you know it, so in the competition they have no benefits or points, and even more resources return to percentages than when they are underdeveloped. Of course, entrepreneurship should be encouraged in this area through benefits to entrepreneurs. And at that point, jobs are opening up. However, I would like to be honest, when you were a minister, although I consider you one of the most successful ministers in the 1990s, that at that time you were the one who insisted with the Greek minister that entrepreneurship be promoted in undeveloped areas. I know, I've seen you, then I was a citizen of Sinya, coming to the prosciutto fair in Sinj. I don't know if you've been to Drnis? You were neat. But there's no movement, we can, I'll give the amendment 20 thousand kuna minimum wage. I know you've been coming to Alka, it's nice to see you when the ministers and you and the rest of the others come to the alka, we've been very kind. I trust you have that feeling left in Sinj hospitality? But you gave us back enough of the Dalmatian Zagora, the Faces, all the squads, all the squads! From you Social Democrats to Democrats, you gave us back, not anything, if you'd given back the same. It's the disaster you've brought back, the burned earth. Please visit those areas that you have declared to be developed. Here, for example. Mr. Maras, Brsthanov, I don't know if you've heard of him. Or Velvo, go and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64624	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens who follow us. Rarely that the topic gathers so much interest of citizens as it is the subject of pay. In particular, if you claim that the minimum wage in the net may be paid in the amount of 4,000 kuna, i.e. gross amount of 5,000 kuna. Of course, now it seems like a nice story to some, but I'll try to make it an argument, and I'll show with numbers that it's possible. The government has proposed a minimum wage increase of as much as 131 kuna and wants to present this as an important move. On the other hand, we heard here during the debate that there are both representatives and their parties who consider what the state is going to be involved in the pay problem at all, let it determine the market. This is represented by all those parties who, in their name, have the word "liberal". These are therefore, it is a liberal, or neoliberal approach that the market needs to regulate all relations and thus pay, the lowest, the most, as agreed. An increase of 131 kuna is a sign that the bathing policy is carried out. Which means the workers should be satisfied with the crumbs falling off the table. It is essentially this neoliberal model that is not only carried out unfortunately by the parties they have in their name liberally. And this model has created policies for saving, tightening belts and other sintagms of sacrifice to be submitted by workers for the prosperity of the economy and society. However, practice has shown that such policies in all countries have failed, have failed. Social inequalities continue to increase and the relationship between labour representatives and capital deteriorates and modern man is no longer ready to accept crumbs. In the relatively near future, it will not be possible to achieve full employment in the economy at all because of the strong development of the digital economy and robotics that suppress living work and workers from the production process. It was precisely because of such technological progress that issues and dilemmas that economic science and other sciences had not yet known. This is why the concept was created, one alternative concept of this minimum wage, which is the concept of basic income which is still, let alone earlier for many Utopian projects in which every working citizen can or does not have to work at all and would receive basic income. The basic income is experimentally introduced in some cities of the European Union. It also corresponds to capital owners because basic income stimulates consumption and demand for their products because contemporary capitalism suffers from hyperproduction of all goods and services. But back to the government's move to increase the minimumer by even 131 kuna to keep me focused on the topic. The current minimum wage of 2,620 kuna net is more like social assistance than the income from which workers should have for at least a dignified and extremely modest life. The increase decided by the Government of 131 kuna is truly humiliating, and this is a blow to the intelligence and dignity of the poorest workers who make this money with severe torment. I must point out that the share of minimum wages in the average gross salary paid in Croatia remains modest 43%. And when we know that the average wage is one enough for a decent life, it shows that workers with minimum wage live on the poverty line and even some are starving. In Slovenia, at the same time, the minimum wage is almost 60% of the average gross salary. The government's proposal to increase the minimum wage by 131 kuna is really insignificant, and on the other hand it stimulates you to see employers at its retention at that level, even if it is paid by those who could pay a significantly higher amount. Why is that? According to their proposal, the new minimumer would be 2751.84 June, and the gross amount would be 3439.80 June, from which all contributions that are cumulatively 17.2% would be singled out. According to this proposal, the allocation for contributions would be 591.65 lira of gross amount, and the relief for employers would be 50%, and therefore the employer should not allocate 591.65 lipa but half less than 295 kuna. Now, here's the question. So the employer on the contributions to this government action saves 295 kuna, and the worker grows a net minimumer of only 131 kuna. So we see that here on some almost double the stimulated employer, rather than the worker. And not just that. Employers like this are encouraged to pay others a minimum wage. Therefore, Croatia needs an urgent and complete turn in wage policy, especially minimum wage. He's also needed when it comes to minimum pensions, but I'll talk about it another time. In addition, it is necessary to increase at the same time and so-called personal deduction from 3 thousand 800 to 4 thousand kuna in order to make a minimumer increase make sense because the cost of life has increased. I therefore offer a model that is fairer, which will restore dignity to workers and enable them to live as normal as possible, and that, through internal savings and redistributions, this does not affect either the budget or the public debt. So for the current minimum wage of 2 thousand 620 kuna gross salary to repeat is 3 thousand 276 kuna. He thus paid the worker contributions for health care and retirement. Then how do you realize the idea that minimum wage is 4000 kuna net? An increase with a significant thousand and 380 kunas that will ensure a decent life for both those with lowest incomes, and a more just value of work? Here's how. If the employer can pay these additional 3,000 kunas from 2620 to 4 000 workers, then no contributions to health, pension insurance and other charges would be charged to that amount at all. As much as the employer singles out for workers cumulatively over the year in his firm in this way, his profit tax base would be reduced for that amount. In this way, the practice of paying part of the salary to black workers would cease as is said in cash on hand. So employers would be stimulated by reducing the income tax, reducing or abolishing a number of parafiscal burdens and increasing the non-taxable part of the salary. On the other hand, any abuse of this model would be sanctioned by law. There's also a shortage of this model. You see, I'm talking about both advantages and disadvantages. The lack of this model is that by raising the minimumer to 4000 kuna, all those who already have that salary are also expected to have their salaries increased by employers. However, such an increase, or harmonisation of wages upwards, is possible in a way that finally frees employers of the largest part of the parafiscal burdens. The government announced that last year more than 200 different parafiscal charges were collected by about 9 billion kuna, of which employers had to pay you 5 and a half billion, and citizens about 3 and a half billion kuna. This segment of burden must be dealt with urgently and it is constantly sought by employers so that they do not choke without suffocation or by citizens. This is what the party We change Croatia all the time, and this is a new economic policy of strong positive changes, or solutions, rather than patching and collecting crumbs. With the introduction of bank assets tax and the refinancing of expensive loans and government bonds, the largest part of such State revenues collected on the basis of parafiscal inducements could therefore be compensated in this way. What are the macroeconomic effects of this increase in the minimum wage from 2620 to 4000? Between one and two billion because they don't all receive 2620 so they'd come to the workers. They'd spend that money because a man with a small salary spends every raise. Thus, the state would collect between 200, 300 and even more than millions of kunas for such consumption, thus compensating those tax reliefs it gave the employer for failing to receive the expected tax. And let me get this straight. To stop the collapse of the pillars of society, poverty, to restore dignity to the worker and in every way possible... The economy has also increased demand these are the necessary measures to be taken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, not the minimumer, not the crumbs, but the strong positive changes, and I've shown the arguments that it's possible. And I'm calling on the government to make this happen together because it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64626	Thank you. You have three replicas. First Mr. Stephen Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64627	Thank you, Vice President. In your opening explanation, you mentioned something about liberal policy, something that I also referred to as a liberal economy if you didn't have 76,000 people who are now receiving a minimum. That's what I mentioned, if we had a few thousand then we could take over or leave all the markets because I believe it will happen, that the labour market will already in itself crystallise that more people with minimum wages will not be the ones who want to do it. It's absolutely what's going to happen to us very simply. As for the jump itself, studying the last five years means looking at the 13th for 2 grand 984 gross, then 14. Three thousand, 17 and 15. Three thousand 29, 16. 3 and 120, 17. 3 and 276 and now at the end of 3 thousand 439, for 2018 we see that it always grows so linearly for several hundred kunas, sometimes a little bit more, sometimes a little less. Of course there is and that tax reform has made a great contribution, how many people are really left, sometimes the minimum salaries paid taxes now it's a relief all actually avoided, so only the contributions remain. Your proposal, however, and there is no one happier here that is the smallest salary in Croatia 4,000 kuna, and that is an average of 7, only a one-sided regulation we would unfortunately know directly because I used to work in this sector useful in which if we talk about some... maintenance management, about cleaning up facilities where thousands of people work in Croatia, it would practically be halved by contracts that have been signed and by all things, the margins there are very small which differ from minimum wages, and something more, so 5% etc. So there would be the dismissal of thousands and thousands of workers as long as unfortunately we have people who are willing to work for the minimumer, and they're getting smaller and that's the danger that's coming to us, we'll have to be careful that it goes linearly and slowly. So, I wish we could have such wages but unfortunately that's not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64628	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64629	Here's colleague Curai, I'm sorry you didn't look back on any arguments, so the number I cited. You've stayed to claim that this is nice to hear as one request but unfortunately it's impossible. Well, you see, we have been assured for years in this beautiful Croatia, but poor, that some things are impossible. But we see from another part of society that anything is possible. It's possible they never get a negative verdict in court, it's possible they're never punished, it's possible they're doing whatever they want, it's possible they're not paying taxes and making as much money as they want. But on the other hand, when it comes to vulnerable groups of workers and pensioners, you see it, then you say it would be good, but you know, because of the economic conditions in the situation we are in, it's not possible. I explained that it was possible. However, it shows that this government is not ready for major changes. I always asked, if she doesn't know, then I understand she doesn't know. But if she says she can't, then this government has to tell her why she can't, who's bothering her or who's defending her. Therefore, it is clear that it does not protect the interests of workers, pensioners, or those of the most vulnerable groups. But it certainly does not protect the interests of employers, the employers were the other day I was at a meeting of the Croatian Employers' Association at the end of the year, they constantly raise the question of parafiscal burdens that there are over 200 in Croatia. Radically, I said that this is to be cut down as a saber, that it is necessary to relieve these employers so that they can pay bigger minimums to workers and I explained the closed concept that at a macroeconomic level it is possible. But apparently these big changes require a new government, new people, who not only have knowledge, but also have courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64630	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64631	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I am one of those who believe it is possible what you say. I can also back it up with facts, but it has to be desired, if it's wanted, then there's got to be something that can be done. And yet I say, blessed are all those who have the opportunity to learn from the experiences of other positive experiences. So let me tell you something, the two strongest regions in the textile industry were the Venetto regions and Flemish Belgium. Venetto region in Italy. Venetto region no longer has a textile industry, the textile industry is all in Romania. Now you're probably wondering what they do? They hired people in the bakery industry and today we eat pannetons, mottos, these all live for Easter and Christmas in all Croatia. Those people who worked in the textile industry are doing it. So you need company activity, you need to know where we're going and what we're going to do to get to a certain goal. So they're a low-accumulated industry, working intensively, they see that they can't compete anymore because of high prices and they've changed the whole system. They've changed their overall activity. I think we're also going to have to say about some activities to where, whether we're going to keep a minimum wage on those activities that are going to disappear sooner or later. I mean, we really care about the textile industry, but how much do we have in Croatia compared to the last 10 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64632	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64633	Dear colleague Hrelja, I have already said before that I am glad that you support this idea and that you also think that it is possible for your party to achieve a gross minimum of 5,000 or a net minimumer of 4,000. And I'm glad you supported these arguments from northern Italy. So it's possible these numbers that I've taken out are clearly showing it. However, I am also pleased that you have introduced a new dimension in the debate, and this is the necessity of restructuring those activities and parts of the industries that, let's say, have no good perspective. Well, that should be an integral part of every government's macroeconomic policy, including our government. Therefore, with the minimum wage policy, the requalification policy and the promotion of industries that will bring and produce products with a higher value added. Because let's not fool ourselves, real contributions and real wages in a country will only bring strong growth of gross domestic product and industry that have and products with higher value added value. The healthier the growth. But until we come to this situation that a part of the workers is requalified for these more advanced and expensive industries, we have to run this policy, let's say state policy when it comes to minimum wages because we inherit that social component unlike the countries of rigid capitalism where everything is left where it is. So that's why I say, and even these liberals here who mention it, let's disburse the employers, because when we're suffocating them with parafiscal inducements, then of course the companies themselves fail and that they can't pay the greater minimums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64634	Thank you, too. Mr. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, I listened carefully to you and especially when you said that if those with minimum wage come to 4 thousand kunas, so those who came to 4 thousand kunas that they should certainly be further paid and then it linked me to a recent statement by the governor of the CNB who said that if there was an increase in such wages then there would be an increase in inflation and then there would be an increase in interest rates. Now, I have to admit that this really surprised me by the governor in such a way, it means the fear of the citizens that if you get 130 kunas less pay, a slightly higher salary, if someone even increases 100, 200, 300 kuna, that will ultimately affect the increase in interest rates. We know very well when they were saying, when there was a conversion in the Swiss franc, they signed it, if you make a conversion to the Swiss franc what will happen, they were putting pressure on the citizens, says all those who have loans in euro will increase interest rates in the euro and you will ultimately pay that price and then there was pressure, very strong that you do not actually carry out that form of conversion. And in the end, what happened? We see that in the last few years just the drop, the strong drop in interest rates, that even positively worked, the conversion of the Swiss franc has also been a positive effect on income, on income, so there is a greater available income that did not go, just went to financial transfer, closing certain loans, but also in context and for certain increased consumption. So I have to admit that a little bit surprised me here means an increase in wages, and even in this part of a certain 130 kuna, it will ultimately pay citizens with higher interest rates. I'd like you to come along, since you've been... to explain to people a little bit the impact of interest rates, we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We understand each other well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, whether or not someone is constantly feeling this little increase right now, a friend tells me, they're always scaring me with something, so now here's the pay raise that there's going to be an increase in interest rates. I'd like your opinion on that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64636	Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64637	Dear fellow Lalovac, thank you for this question that is really very interesting. So I'm going to try to be very short and core. So we see that over the past years, not 2, 3 but 20 years, that politics, monetary and credit policy of the CNB has always been such that it has been more on hand, in fact exclusively on hand and in favour of financial institutions and those most vulnerable, it has been punishing. But let's stay on the particular example when you were the finance minister and the Frank case was solved. After citizens, damaged citizens could have had a higher amount, so they didn't have to pay higher anuities, it certainly worked on increased consumption and a certain growth in GDP, and no one can normally deny it. But now that the leadership or governor of the CNB argues that even for this church of 131 kuna, it could increase through the consumption of inflation, so that, they've been doing it for years, they've been scaring us with inflation like inflation lurking around every corner in this city, in every street. It's the concept of their remainder, so on... However, no one is asking questions, so on the one hand, the CNB gives each piece of advice to the government, but it has not been doing itself for many years what needs to be done and its harmful monetary credit policy is destructively destabilizing to the extreme extent of the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm only sorry that this structure, or its head man, is simply, well, I'm sorry that he got your support when you were in power. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64638	Thank you very much. We're going on with the speakers. Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before we talk about minimum wage then we should make it very clear that the minimum wage is not only the minimum labour price in Croatia but it is also the protection mechanism that simply prevents workers from falling below the poverty line because it has been proven that any pay allows people to live as decently as they do, I am not talking about whether it is enough to live, but in any case it is what will prevent you from falling below the poverty line. On the other hand, it is a mechanism that prevents you from leaving and from social renting. Because if the minimum wage is too low then clearly if you have on the other side of the social benefit that allows you to earn, in quotes "more" than minimum wage, then clearly you will go towards the social system without looking for a job and therefore want to work for minimum wage. Therefore, the minimum wage is an extremely important mechanism and should not be seen just as we look at it today in most discussions, whether it is 130 kuna more or less, it is a protective mechanism that simply protects our labour price. And on the other hand, when workers from other EU countries come to us, they will watch what the labour price is and what the price is in other countries. Unfortunately, the government has gone completely wrong. And to be very clear, this law does not raise minimum wage. So the minimum wage is raised by a regulation and it has already been raised. Therefore, the government does not offer anything with this law to workers in Croatia, however, it offers employers. Because this law is only because of the last transitional provision where we say we will take it, that the government will take the health system 220 million kuna and that these funds will be transferred to employers so that employers can handle this minimum wage increase of 131 kuna. It's something that looking at justice and logic doesn't hold water unless you want employers to make even more money than they've earned before. And it's absolutely a lie that the unions agreed to that solution. Clearly, unions that protect workers' rights want to be a minimum wage higher, but not in this way that compensates for what's in this bill. And what is certain will happen, as everyone assumes, and so did the trade unions, the president of the largest labour union Mr. Novosel warned the government in an open letter about the problem, which is that we will reward employers for giving people minimum wage. And not only that, but if the employer is willing to raise his salary because he's doing well, why would he have a benefit here and pay 50% less than he should pay? Well, it's not in his interest to raise it by one kuna behind a minimum wage, because then they'll pay full contributions. It is therefore very clear that this path is being taken by government workers in Croatia will not benefit, but it will certainly benefit employers themselves. It is interesting that this law comes after the vote of the 2018 Parliament budget, as well as the vote of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. As far as I know, there is no such thing in these papers, so the Croatian Health Insurance Office will receive 220 million kuna less. And on the other hand, I'm warning again that this is the first time and precedent that we're doing these things on a burden of contribution, not a general tax. And so these are the contributions that we all said went into the health system, to make the health system be financed from it. The government, by some miracle, I don't know what the reason is because it's absolutely certain that this increase in minimum wage won't lead to mass layoff of workers, certainly won't lead to a threat to the position of wood, textile and leather industries. This law was supposed to do something else. In addition to this part at the beginning that says that minimum wage should not be included in it all the things that employers have so far been counting. But that's where you got the mistake of missing the hard working conditions. So I hope that you will adopt an amendment to the SDP club that goes after the fact that those things that are not included in the minimum wage are also difficult working conditions. On the other hand, you've forgotten extended collective agreements. So in Croatia, we have two extended collective agreements for tourism and for construction, so these additions agreed by these collective agreements should not be included in the minimum wage. What I would point out is that this bill is not what we expected and that this is probably just one concession for employers, because the one regarding minimum wage is unnecessary. The minimum wage has increased by a regulation and this law itself will not change anything for 2018, but will give employers the opportunity to pay less contributions than they would pay so far. And what you need to know is that out of these 75,000 employers, there's a good number that's basically holding the workers on the minimal, and the rest is paying off on their hands. With this you will simply direct even more employers to this work, in this way of functioning, and with this the government promotes de facto work on black and it should not be a modern European government doing so. The law is unacceptable, he does not solve the problem of minimum wage. However, it further deepens it because it will lead to more and more workers in Croatia getting minimum wage, and employers will have more funds because they will not pay contributions as much as they should pay. The government has become involved here in the relationship between employers and workers, in the relationship between labour and capital. And here it is quite safe and visible and clear that the government has sided with employers, i.e. on the side of capital. But this should include another scandalous decision, which is the government's decision on quotas for labour imports. We once again tell our citizens that they have nothing to look for in Croatia and that they can leave Croatia. We will introduce 29,000 workers outside Croatia. And the government boasted of one measure that they would forgive employers, so the cost of housing taxes, seasonal nutrition. But gentlemen, that is what the EU directive is that you must implement. Therefore, the government has not forgiven anything, so it has neither improved workers, seasonal workers, but it is the government's duty in view of the EU directive that went towards the same level of working conditions in Croatia, and also in all EU countries. So much for the government's gifts that have been full of mouth lately. The minimum wage law in this form in which it is now presented to the public, presented here in the Assembly will not solve the problem of minimum wage, will not solve the problem of the citizens, will not solve the problem of workers, and will not go without the cost of workers because the clear message of employers put the workers on the minimum wage, and the state will therefore reward you with a 50% lower base on which you will pay contributions to the health system that is already in the minus, and with this will be even more in the minus. On the other hand, none of what the Government has now predicted is in the budget, nor in the state budget, nor in the budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So much for the government's relationship to the fundamental documents of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64640	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. First Silvano, Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64641	Dear fellow Mršić, I agree with you in a good way. However, something that burned my ear is your experience of minimum wage as a protection category, and I don't see any protection category of minimum wage especially at this level. If it were somewhere at the level that I was talking about both my colleague Lovrinović and I, at 5000 kuna and two gross, so two such salaries can satisfy some minimum needs of a four-member family, then I would say that it is already some protective function of minimum wage. This is really what the law says, and this is the lowest monthly amount of money that can be paid to a full - time worker, so within a month or relatively reduced during work hours and nothing more. For the minimum wage protection category, social partners should be able to sit and think about what it is to connect, what activities they can objectively fulfil and which they cannot and should not replace and go with activities in another direction, which are long-term processes, these are not short-term moves and that is something that will come sooner or later. Because what other countries have gone through to define pay policy, from minimum pay to strategies and collective bargaining systems, we will have to go through that, too. We were on a good trip, then everyone on all sides and politics and unions and employers all disbanded, we were much more serious there than '98. By 2002 than we are today. Everyone's working on someone else's account today, and everyone's trying to access the deal with a fig in their pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64642	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64643	Dear colleagues, don't put words in my mouth I didn't say. So about the minimum wage when I was talking about minimum wage, I was talking about the minimum wage instrument. I wasn't talking about what the minimum wage was. In any case, the minimum wage is the protection instrument of workers who protects them from poverty as an institute and not, therefore, the height of minimum wage. Because if that weren't the case, then even European countries wouldn't have a minimum wage system. The 22 countries have solved it in a way that is determined at the state level, and in 6 countries, by co-operation between trade unions and employers through collective agreements of a branch. Therefore, the protection mechanism is, on the other hand, an instrument that encourages a worker to seek employment, not to go into social care, and then to get funds for his life. Not that he's working on black, so if he's working on black, he's not going to make any contributions, he's not going to have a decent pension in the end. Therefore, minimum wage is a safeguard mechanism. We can talk as much as she needs to be, that's another thing. But I'm sure it's an instrument that protects workers from poverty. And it is, this amount of minimum wage is low, it would have to be higher. I note again that by 2008, from 2008 to 2013, he had been frozen with that nascaradic Minimum Salary Act, that in 2013, we had defrosted him and we had raised him as much as we could. But the government now has a much better economic situation and I don't see why it's afraid to raise a minimum wage higher than it has now raised, because that wouldn't lead to job losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64644	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrssic, I'd like to say two things and rely on your exposure. The first to refer to a fact that is correct, which is that the government will make a decision on the height of the salary. And I know well that you have not forgotten that you are in fact such a solution by law in 2013 when you have proposed this law and determined that the Government will by regulation prescribe a minimum wage. If you wanted the Parliament to discuss it then you would probably have written it, and then the government would have adopted it, and then we would have talked about not only those changes proposed by the Government today, but we would probably be discussing the height of the salary. And the other thing I wanted to tell you is that I would not agree with you that this law only speaks of compensatory measures that go towards the employer. He also speaks of the fact that minimum wages do not charge overtime, holidays, etc. etc., work on Sundays. On the other hand, to measure these measures, compensation measures can only be made for a worker who has received minimum wage for 12 months. So, no one can remember now and say I'm going to cut the salary, and then as an employer, I'm going to have that 50% reduction in contributions. Thus, in one part, this law determines what the minimum wage will be and allows the government to then bring a minimum wage at the level of a five-percent increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64646	Thank you, too. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64647	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bacic of the 28 EU Member States 22 has a minimum salary regulated by law as we do. Therefore, we are no different than other EU countries. The rest of the state has been arranged by collective agreements, which I've already said. It is therefore that our solution is the solution that most EU countries have. If we could do it differently, it's a matter of agreement, but I think it's something the whole of Europe does. On the other hand, when we talk about compensation mechanisms, you could have introduced a very simple mechanism. Instead of giving employers 260 kunas in your pocket, you could agree on a different compensation mechanism, which is that if the employer has a problem that he will not, therefore, be unable to pay the minimum wage prescribed by the Government in agreement with the trade unions, the Workers' Council or the Workers' Assembly or the workers themselves can, therefore, sign an agreement to pay the salaries of the previous year. So, let's keep it the same. And it's this transition period that would very elegantly allow employers to get through that year if they had problems, and it wouldn't lead to these dubiosiss. Because what if it happens to you now that the company is getting into difficulties and that it has to, therefore, go down to the minimum, and it hasn't paid the minimumer in the past year, they won't be able to use that call benefit. So watch what it looks like? Therefore, it is obvious that everything that the mechanism has proposed is not sufficiently well looked at. And on the other hand, I'd understand that you're fighting for workers if, say, this law didn't suddenly come into emergency procedures to get to only 1.1 so that employers could use these benefits, that you gave this up in January. Nothing would happen because it pays off in the first month. So, obviously, it's only because of employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64648	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64649	Thank you very much. Dear Mrsic, please also comment as a doctor on this situation that has now occurred, i.e. further deepening of the health deficits of 250 million kuna. This is obviously about the ad hoc measure. So it wasn't anyone's overthinking it, it was 50% of the smaller contributions for certain groups of workers who were on the minimal for a year. But the fact is that 250 million kunas will be less in the health system and that citizens are likely to be able to distribute more through medicines next year. Because as our Minister of Health has said, no country by its definition is rich enough to treat all its citizens. So that's our health minister's statement he gave, and we now see that according to this proposal, his system is losing another 250 million kuna. And it is interesting that he continues to vote on the proposal at the government of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand he tells people that there is no money for their treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64650	Answer Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64651	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, that 250 million kuna in the health system is as big as a house just to present to you in a vivid way how it looks. That's a quarter of our biggest hospital's budget, Rebro. That means that Rebro shouldn't work at all for three months, you shouldn't treat people, people shouldn't get paid. Therefore, the 250 million kuna is not small, and yet let's add that it's not 250 million, that it's another 20 million kuna for employment, that it's another 7 million kuna for protection at work. We therefore take all this from the budget, or from the contribution, and the citizens will have to make up for it from the tax. So that part will have to be compensated from the tax and de facto citizens are resuscitating the thing the state has started, and it doesn't need to be done. Here I want to take advantage of the opportunity to say to the position that what you're doing right now is going to come around everyone's head because it's only a question of when someone else will come up with the idea of saying goodbye to them so they can patch up some hole that the government itself created. And that's not a good principle. And on the other hand, I use the opportunity of the secretary of state, there is an analysis of the wage policy in Croatia, and that is the basis for changing the system. I see Minister Pavic wants to start some kind of commission, so we'll think about it again. You have an analysis completed with the proposals and here I publicly tell you take it no matter what it was done during the time of the SDP government, but it was done correctly. The experts worked, and this is a good basis for changing the wage policy, so that we can also bring the minimum wage policy into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64652	The last replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64653	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, you have rightly warned of one thing that is being pointed out here incessantly. Although it is a law on the increase in minimum wage, this is nevertheless a law giving subsidies in the economy. Perhaps now is not a bad time to ask what the European Commission will say about it, perhaps it should be thought about it. However, it is 245 million kunas heading towards the economy as support. The second thing may not be negligible to mention that even though they will receive subsidies from them, accounting and accounting problems will also arise. This may seem to be a banal thing, however, requires certain costs, double returns must be conducted in contributions. And the third thing I might want is your comment, and it's about professional training without a working relationship. It is obvious that from 1.1 and based on the increase in the minimum wage will also increase the amount paid to users and support, means professional training. At this point, I am not quite sure whether the Republic of Croatia has taken advantage of all the opportunities to withdraw funds from EU funds or whether it will continue to go on the burden of the budget as was the case with transport, when it was not allowed to use transport costs other than public transport when the EU banned it. So, you rightly say the law is passed after the budget has been adopted and whether all these costs are taken into account, here and in particular in the case of vocational training especially due to the announcement that Minister Pavić should welcome that he will expand the circle of users after 30 years and those who are self-employed to be able to use for 3 persons. If you can comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64654	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mrsic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64655	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sagar, it is right here from the speed the government wanted to go out with this law first that no assessment of the effects of the regulations was made so that we do not have, so we do not have an estimate of what will happen when this law is implemented. On the other hand, it was obviously not the European Commission, or the EU, whether this is about support or not, this is certainly about one form of support. We can say that this is covered support because we give a certain portion of employers and others do not become more competitive in some way than others. So let's say that if the company pays the minimum wage of 12 months and that's why they're going to get 50%, they're going to pay less, they're going to have more money, and the company that pays 1 kuna more or 10 kuna more than the minimum, and it's doing the same thing as this company in the same brand, so it's going to be in a more unfavourable position. So I am not sure that this law will withstand a test whether it is support or not, the Government has shown us nothing or we have information that there was something here or that we have a general opinion of the European Commission. I think it's covered support and there's going to be a lot of trouble. And on the other hand, as regards professional training of wishes, it was obvious that Minister Pavić could otherwise be done because what I now see is that all the measures that were now being implemented and the only difference is that he spends an enormous amount of advertising money on the media, on the news, on television, which I think could have been used in a much better way and that means for those who are unemployed to hire them. Obviously, he wants to make a PR for himself and the government, I mean Minister Pavic and Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64656	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Gordan Maras is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64657	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. All day long here we have been discussing the Law on Minimum Payment, it started at 10 a.m. and I must once again point out my dissatisfaction with the failure of Minister Pavić to come here to the Croatian Parliament on one of the most important laws proposed by his ministry this year, where he is not worthy of the law here and to elaborate him in front of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public what is more important for people to see and to hear in fact what the Minister with this proposal and the Government wants. Instead he chooses not to come here and man would think it was some very important, unscheduled commitment. But then when he looks at what was happening today and where the minister was present he sees that it is a conference in the morning at 10 a.m. of a week which took place in front of a hundred people in Westin, in a hotel in the city center of Zagreb. And then you see basically what are the priorities, what are Minister Pavic's priorities and what is more important to him. So the debate in the Croatian Parliament on minimum wage involving 76,000 404 of our fellow citizens, workers working for minimum wage or discussion at a conference of hundreds of people in the Westin Hotel who probably included a suitable homecoming after that. So very simple choice, workers pay, the law what is important or on the other hand a small debate chit chat with a hundred people in Westin and give a speech there and send messages of type go outside Croatia but come back when you learn something outside your country. And that is why we must immediately say that this is the approach we see in the Croatian government from the very beginning. Well, this law has been proposed in, in a quick, inadequately prepared and clumsy way. The trade unions themselves said that probably Prime Minister Plenkovic remembered overnight, the deficit had fallen, let's see if we can increase something, under public pressure, the opposition that proposed the minimum wage bill six months ago and announced its proposal that is now in the parliamentary procedure and then the meeting, as they say in the trade unions, was organised today at 10 in the morning and was left for one day to comment and submit their proposal to the proposed law. And then you can't have anything better than what's been suggested here and it's not good at more stuff. First 130 kunas, I said once again to Mr. Bačić, how much he will provide people with a daily salary increase and these 5 kunas I will personally hand him over after my debate to get him five kunas more today as this bill should give him a minimum wage employee, 5 kunas every day, and this is what HDZ has provided people with minimum wage. They're 76,000 404. So what's going on here now? It is done that those who have been and have been free of a certain contribution for the past 12 months can be made by employers who have had registered workers for the past 12 months. What kind of message is being sent to your colleagues? Messages are being sent to people on a minimum salary for the next 12 months, and maybe the government will also apply the same model next year. Who will be responsible to counterpart Bačić and colleagues from HDZ when next year at this time, we will have no more 76,000 people on minimum wage, but perhaps a hundred thousand. Who's gonna be responsible for that? Is this HDZ policy, the party of the PRO to pay more, to allow better conditions, not to force people with poor working conditions from the Republic of Croatia. Is this a policy that Minister Pavić and Andrej Plenkovic are considering, and that offers us here in the Croatian Parliament, to make sure that next year we do not have 76, but a hundred thousand people who will work on minimum wage. And how did the discharge be deployed in the HDZ Government and in the cabinet of Andrej Plenkovic? Two hundred 50 million kunas are freed from the contributions of 32000 employers. Employees, those who will receive 130 kuna, i.e. 5 kuna a day, Mr. Bačić, will receive 1560 kuna a year. When you multiply 76404 of these employees they will get 120 million kunas at an annual level of more money in their salaries, 76,000 of them. And employers, they'll get 244 million. So the message from Andrej Plenkovic and the HDZ Government is twice as much worth these 32000 employers to us as 76404 of our employees. That's the message we're listening to here. What's the criterion? What's with the brans? Will some who now use people at the minimal be rewarded? Yes, they will be rewarded. It is also a message from Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ. They will be rewarded for what those who, for example, are in the Transport and Security Sector, means services where people have to do this job, and no special education, people are forced to work and are generally registered to a minimumer, they will be rewarded. These companies make tens of millions of kunas each year, and for example, one company that has 6 hundred such workers on the minimalac will achieve a stimulant, a benefit provided by this government at two million kunas a year. And that is that justice and it is the honesty and justice and the stimulation of people to stay in Croatia offered by HDZ. Please free us from such justice and such honesty. People need to be helped in a way that all employers are in the same position, they need to be stimulated to give people more wages, not like this on the dropper mitz by mitz doing even deeper injustices than they have been so far. And that's why I can't be satisfied with this solution, and that's why I don't care about any analysis at all when it's what, what's been paid, etc., raised, changed so far. What we're doing so far has to be done in a correct way. And the SDP proposes to make a minimum wage at 60% of the average salary. It's the only thing that's fair and that could help people right now. Tragedies happen every day. Yesterday we saw a man take her alive in his official car. Who knows what the reasons are? Can we even understand how many people and how many people have problems and why they're not being helped, but this is how one wrong message is sent to them? It was Minister Pavic who suggested that debt pensions increase 10% this year. Anyone who has a pension of 10000 kuna this year has increased the pension of 1000 kuna. So what kind of righteousness is that? What kind of system is that? What kind of message is that to people? The message is that people don't care at all, or you don't care about the government of Andrej Plenkovic how people live and whether people go to Croatia. So today I'm reading on the portals of a lady who's been convicted of two feta prosciuttos in Zadar if you remember that case. She left Croatia and works in Austria and has 4 times the salary she had in Croatia. What kind of message is that of our society? What is the message of all of us here when we do not want to provide people in the EU whose community we are, that we are not last, that we are not the last on the table of those who have the lowest average salary, and by purchasing power I think Bulgaria is the only one behind us. And that's the message that Andrej Plenkovic sent. And then he'll be surprised next year why there's 100 grand on the minimum salary, why 100,000 people from Croatia left. We'll all be surprised and say that we want to stop it, and in particular this government is doing nothing about it. Thank you very much. And, Mr. Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64658	He was looking for a replica of Mr. Mrsic. Here you go, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64659	Dear colleague Maras, you're an economic profession. I'm a doctor. But in this law, unfortunately, you can see something that I have already pointed out that there is no assessment of the effects of the regulations here. Because gentlemen from the government of accounting and accounting after 1.1 you will have a crazy house, because in the company you will have to have double accounting – one accounting for those who are on the minimum and other bookkeeping for those who are not on the minimum. Not everyone's in a minimum wage company. There are people in the company who work for a bigger salary. Therefore, accounting will have to make changes, accounting will have to make changes to the system, the billing of salaries, which will again lead to the cost of employers rising. And this is, therefore, some gift to employers, who will eventually not turn out to be a gift, because they will have increased costs for implementing this system. So it was much simpler for you to accept our amendment that goes along, to allow employers a transition period, that means that in agreement with workers, they can pay minimum wages from the previous year, which is much simpler, without administration, because obviously this government is going after it, that employers are going on hand. And de facto it won't work out for them the way things are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64660	Mr. Mars's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64661	Thank you very much. Not just what you saw, but imagine this situation, and what about the new people, who will hire that employer on a minimum salary. So they're going to have one that was 12 months old and they're going to be counting on how some genius at the Ministry of Finance came up and they're going to have the one who hired that day and who won't have the right to account for that reduced contribution that some genius from the Ministry of Finance came up with. So we're going to have two jobs, not the same person, but the same jobs, which are going to be different. But not just that. What I'm worried about here. Leading to this twisted logic, people will say, and, behold, those in HDZ next year will probably remember to make a similar proposal again. So let me transfer those who had a slightly higher wage to the minimumer, because next year it'll be worth 2019. How many people are gonna be new to the minimal and tell me, who's gonna be responsible for that? Who's going to answer that, when someone won't be able to say no to an employer, who's going to explain to him, listen, old man, I'm going to have to transfer you from 200, 300 pounds more salary to a minimumer, because it's much cheaper for me. I'll try to make it up to you or make it up to you in another way. Why are we putting people in such a position? For what? It's not fair or fair. And it is clear why these employers, in particular those who worked in the tents of Sheba, fell to them. To them, they'll make extra profits, which employ a lot of people on the minimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64662	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark Tritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64663	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Maras, as he said, dear colleague Mrsic, he is a doctor, you are an economist, I am an architect. However, common sense is common sense. Well, no matter what profession you're in. And common sense tells you in favour of, that hasty solutions, are always solutions that bring a number of problems. Which I actually want to turn up and I want to say. If you want to solve a problem, then you solve it in a way that you need to know the ultimate goal, and then you have some short, medium- and long-term measures. So from that short-term measure, you can see what that ultimate goal is. You, unfortunately in this we do not see the ultimate goal, other than that of a great population or a donation ahead of Christmas and New Year, because what characterizes the current government and the current opposition, is the fact that, regardless of the good intentions, which come from the side of the recovery and to the good desire that some things improve are not disputed to react. Amendment, I'm sure and I've talked to you on several occasions about the amendments and we'll try to make some amendments, these amendments aren't even readable. They're automatically refusing. It would be much better if some of the things that we can agree on had some sort of agreement and at least read the amendments, so that in three or six months, they would come up with an amendment to the law in which these amendments would be made. We'll say, we told you, but no matter what you should look at the ultimate goal, purpose and purpose. And the purpose is to offer at all, investors, employers in Croatia, one excessive regulation and to know that they will not be changed every 3 months or every 6 months. Because these visionaries who think of something, they're very dangerous and they've already done a lot of damage in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64664	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64665	Thank you very much, I agree with you and this must be an ad hoc solution, there is no strategy here or any exaggeration. It was here that she reacted quickly because I said, what reasons did she feel in public? That the government simply doesn't act justly as it should. But what I was about to say, in some debate, it seems to me before, that I've heard that you or part of the MPs are opposed to such regulation and that such things should, in some sense, be left to the market. I think it is not so and that there are industries in Croatia, I will do it very plasticly if you need to be shown and explained, which are precisely taking advantage of the position of people. It means people don't have a job, they don't have specific knowledge, where they could make more money at some service. And that there are companies that earn a minimum profit per year such that they do not have them in some IT sector businesses that are now the ones with the highest added value. So some traditional services that are in the Republic of Croatia, where there are certain licences, means you can't open the market, like I'm saying, to open the transport market maximum. There is a certain, I would say shared terrain and then people who unfortunately drive for small wages then call me from that company and say they don't have minimum wage. I didn't even say they had all the minimum wage, but if they're moving from a minimum wage to get to 5000 kn, ask those people how much they work, how much they have to import. Is the job that takes you all, where you have to drive 12 hours a day, whether it's a decent salary, or an adequate pay job if you get something higher than what? is minimal. [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mr. Bačić. Thank you.]] So you should be here. The State shall have its own regulation and certain rules should be laid down. [[Intruder Radin: Time's up, thank you very much, time's up, don't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64666	Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I answered the line not because it makes sense but to allow you two more minutes so you can talk about this topic. You said you were an economist, and then I'm surprised how you miscalculated you brought five kunas, you should have given me another five kunas. In fact, this government has doubled the minimum wage twice in a year by 5%, by 320 kuna, so when it's divided by 30 it's more than 5 kuna, it's 10 kuna. Therefore, you should have brought me 10 kunas, and if I were to pay you back with the same measure, I should have given you, for the whole term of office, as much as you did in 3 years, a daily minimum wage increase. But these people who have minimum wages deserve no play of me and you, they find it hard to live with a minimum wage, I understand them, so I don't understand why this play of yours. It is necessary to work that, and this government certainly works in quality, to contribute to improving GDP, improving living standards, improving the conditions for all employers, so that they can then increase minimum wage and increase pay for all employees. That's why more than this play of ours would be good if we were to quality-value all the projects the government is working on, and the government has made a major step in these past year, and when other social-class givings are in Croatia, and according to births, and by increasing the fees for professional training of workers. So for all of those categories of citizens who are not employed or hard to live at the moment, the government is finding measures and means to help them, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64669	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, I had to show that people see and symbolically that's what HDZ did and you're right, I shouldn't have given you 5 kunas, I should have taken out 100 kunas because what you did doesn't deserve a reward but punishment. So, on the other hand, people have to be aware that what you've done now is a strategy, and it doesn't make any sense, the only good thing that's going to be given something more for minimum wages, but it's just not enough. And that's what people need to hear and have to see and that's why 5 kunas. And yet I say, I don't care what happened, let's turn forward, see what we can do. HDZ always has that practice to compare incomparably. How can you compare the situation where we now have 3% of economic growth with an economic downturn of 2%? Well, that's incomparable. How can you compare the minuses that HDZ left 25 billion kunas in 2011 to now deficits that are almost zero, we're almost covering ourselves. Well, that's something that probably couldn't have been done overnight. You must understand that you have much more favourable circumstances and that you do not give enough and that people see it and that people are not satisfied and that people oppose such a way of leading the state and the worst result is that they leave Croatia? Is it logical for you that the situation in Croatia is going better without ever leaving Croatia again? I guess that's the same thing that's saying about how HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64670	Mr. Culey, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64671	Comrade Maras, you remind me of a unionist in a group of workers who were the most lazy, never wanted to work, could never lift 100 kilos but knew how hard it was. As a minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, you were never an entrepreneur, you were never a craftsman, you were a worker, I don't know. You have here made Minister Krstic, General of the Croatian Army apologize to you for what you say, What? [[Mr. Culey, please speak on the subject.]] Well, here's the theme. [[Intruder Radin: You're talking about the subject, please.]] Entrepreneurship, work, craft and what is the message, the point of this story [[Intruder Radin: Not really.]] Mr. Maras spoke what message Plenkovic's government sent [[And don't go ad persona, please.]] I'm going to pick up where we left off. [[But don't go ad persona. You're talking about the subject, don't go ad persona, that's what I have to tell you.]] The message is that the workers of the White-haired woman lost their jobs thanks to the one who was their manager, who was their director. The company. The hotel, which survived years and years in orderly business, with fellow Maras coming to take care and care of it, managed to burn itself twice. If it was once, it couldn't be an accident, but all the time, so, fellow Maras, you're an artist. There are no such cases in Croatia, you are rare. And good for you. That's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64672	Comrade Maras, do you want to respond to the replica or to the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64673	Well, first I'm gonna hurt the Rules of Procedure, so it's more business, right? So, first of all, Rule 238, I can't have an understanding for Mr. Culey. [[Okay, here we go.]] 238, I said. [[Intruder Radin: Okay, just say the article.]] I can't have an understanding for Mr. Culei which he probably doesn't know what ad-hominem and ad persona means, so you have to tell him in Croatian but he personally insulted me several times, you didn't interrupt him. So I'm asking you to do it every time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64674	I guess I didn't interrupt him, didn't tell him. Now you have the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64675	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, if he were gone, he should be made up because he speaks so vividly and that doesn't make any sense at all, nor is it connected very rarely to be heard in the Croatian Parliament. The man here said the hotel burned down twice. The hotel burned down, watch this sentence. I didn't even know the hotel could burn itself down, but trusting Mr. Cule, he's always telling the truth, now you've heard all your colleagues and colleagues, the hotel can burn itself down. Twice. Once it burns itself and then we don't know what happens and then again. Two self-ignitions. So Col. Culey taught us some things here that he probably would never hear, and that's why we should be grateful to him. And that's why I can't wait for another replica because I'm sure I'll learn something new again. Who knows, I might learn that the hotel room on Whiteness can blossom. Or that a restaurant on the Sabres can swim as the hotel on Bellolasica can self- on fire. So, if you'll just keep going, it's very useful for both us and the Croatian citizens, but I'd rather say in something special than what you know, and that's how the tanks are fixed, you can give us some good advice because we know you've been home and you've been doing it very zealously, it seems to me like it was in Slavonic ship, right, there it was. In Mitrovica, I don't know, but somewhere you did it, I don't know exactly, I apologize, but you'll tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64676	Please, I think the replica and the answer to the replica speak only of themselves. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64677	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, so I refer to your part of the debate saying what is the message of this law. Every law has a message, and it may seem to me, it is not a waste to mention a negative message that perhaps this law could have been sent because you are right when you say that the minimum wage is increasing and on the other hand it makes it easier for entrepreneurs not to feel this increase in minimum wage. But how do you do it? I would be much happier to do this directly from the budget, to say directly from the budget we will give support to all those who increase minimum wage, however, here it is done on the burden of contributions to health insurance. And now which message can it be? It can be a very ugly message that those who have the lowest income, that their health is not important because the employer pays contributions to health insurance for the health of all citizens, as well as for the health of workers working under difficult conditions. Here, take only construction workers, and they are often employed on minimum wage. Thus, a message of this law could be carried out that health is not important, so 220 million in the health system is no longer important. And that's what's not good about this bill and I think it would be fairer and we haven't seen from this explanation that says money will be given from the budget, from this and this position, not this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64678	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64679	Absolutely colleague Žagar, this would mean that the government has made and prepared itself and has planned certain sectoral support, and then it could be seen that in this sector, for example, wood-processing or textiles, to see that it helps this sector in a different way but to stay this approach and not make differences from the employer who pays more or less than 100 kuna, which I am sure will ultimately affect that the mass of people will report with 100, 200, 300 kunas less to be on the minimal and that next year, if the government decides again on this move that they will then have the opportunity to use for themselves. I guarantee you here and we can do this, remember who you are now in the assembly, next year when there's a budget debate, I guarantee you that there will be at least 20,000 more people employed at the minimal. And then if that's why we're looking for the minister's responsibility, then back us up on it. Then say yes, you should resign because by your move it leads to 20,000 people working more for a minimumer in the Republic of Croatia. And as for health, 244 million now was no problem for the state to give up this way and when people demonstrated here a few weeks ago with their sick children, then the problem was to find 5 million kunas. So we have a really balanced approach. Some do, some don't. A minister telling us it's too expensive to treat your citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64680	Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64681	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, you have mentioned several times today that Croatia and Bulgaria are at the very bottom of the EU by standard, but the fact is that Croatia is in the last place. If we compare food prices, they are cheaper in Bulgaria by about 25%. Real estate prices are down 40%. The director's prices are about 50% lower. GDP growth in Bulgaria is higher than in Croatia. Also, public debt is only about 22% of GDP and is about 80% in Croatia. Well, then the logical question that we can ask ourselves is, if someone runs five kilometers an hour and someone else runs ten kilometers, who runs faster? So definitely one who has a better result, so we can clearly say that if Bulgaria has better parameters than Croatia, and there are, and if it develops much faster, it is actually only a matter of time before the statistical Croatia appears in the last place. Therefore, on this side, an increase in wages of some 16, 17 euros cannot possibly be a solution. Think we're going to avoid the bottom that's always following us, it's just too optimistic. So it's about pure illusion. This society of ours needs much more courageous measures, and we see that we are getting some shifts on the dropper here and that nothing really matters at all, in the social situation of Croatian workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64682	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, answer, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64683	Thank you very much, counterpart Bunjac, you noticed well, that there is a difference, unfortunately in that part between Croatia and Bulgaria, given the prices. Unfortunately, once upon a time, and it wasn't that long ago, 10, 15 years ago, some of those countries were on our level. We remember all the situations like INA MOL, then I could say I had a perspective with MOL big, unfortunately here's what's been going on in the last 15 years? It happened that INA became a company that serves only for the sale of derivatives made in the MOL refineries. So, we've missed a lot of things, and we're still missing a lot. And those countries that you mentioned both Romania and Bulgaria have a much more proactive policy towards their citizens or citizens who would come to those countries, for example, to work. Because these countries have raised the minimum wage much more than Croatia has done in recent years and people see people leaving. And they see that it will be very difficult to deal with this problem in the future, because in the end, there will be no one to work with. So look what's going on in health care. See what happens in certain other activities, in tourism, so people leave. Our students, the other day it was available in the media, already have a lot of them and agreed specializations after the completion of the Faculty of Medicine in Croatia, somewhere outside Croatia. Well, isn't that enough signal, that we have to do something and we have to try to make sure that we have some perspective here for people who want to, and I believe most people want to, and that nobody leaves Croatia, that at least some perspective is offered here. So we just can't run away from that problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64684	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representative Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64685	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very end of this debate, I would like to say that the Live Wall and SNAG Club will support these minimum wage increases, regardless of the minimum procedures. We will always when something is done for the benefit of therefore, a broad circle of citizens will give their vote for. Of course, HDZ will never vote for what we propose, so let's suggest, I don't know, what kind of measure, but here, we will support their law, so you can basically see who is accessing the party in Croatian problems, who is accessing sectarian. However, I must say at the very end, these measures proposed by the Government are conservative. They're measures without courage. These are measures that will not significantly change the state in which Croatia is currently in place, and most importantly, they will not be remembered. Just as those measures have not been remembered since the end of last year, except for some harmful consequences, which have arisen, not those, small ones, which have been made. We have in Croatia, the current situation that we can solve problems in 2 ways, problems in society. The first thing in the economy, one thing or raise the wages, that's one way, and the other is to cut the cost of living. And given that we are not now increasing wages to a sufficient extent, so that citizens can survive the month with their incomes, then it wouldn't be bad enough to reduce the tax burdens a little, to reduce all the heavy fees that exist, excise fees, to reduce the cut and other parafiscal imposition. I don't know if you saw that study from last week that was made by very respected economists, which shows that actually the cut is nothing but a sign of corruption. That's very interesting. So, the higher the cut in the local administration, that's more corruption. Of course, you shouldn't even mention, where the biggest cut is, I believe you all know very well what city it is. We pay the banks 400 fees. Among other things, both businessmen and employers pay those fees. Well, maybe if someone were to cut them down a little bit, maybe they'd be happy to raise their salaries to the workers. Not only minimal, but everyone else. The HDZ in its programme is credible that it will reduce VAT to 24% in the second year of the term of office. That would be about 4% of the economy would come back. Well then the same businessmen who deal with it, who Mr. Misic, is a great entrepreneur, then he would also increase his workers' wages. He'd pay a smaller VAT and then he'd raise the workers' wages. Well, it's known that he can't wait to increase it, but the state is torturing him, no matter what he's in the ruling coalition right now, not even with them at the end. Then you have, say, that gray economy. The money lying on the road, should only be picked up, says up to 30% of the money in the economy, disappears in the gray economy. What good is it to increase someone’s minimum wage by 130 kn if they get 2000 kn in hand anyway. So now he's not going to get £2,000 on his hands, he's going to get a 1900 big change. If you solve the gray economy, I guarantee you, that the number of people receiving a minimumer will be halved in one day. Instead of 80,000 of them would suddenly be 30,000. How is that possible? Well, it's possible because the state is simply wrong. The state is wrong, no contributions are paid, there are these slave contracts, I give you the minimum, the rest of your hands, how tomorrow they'll have pensions, 1500, 1600 kuna, I don't care. Not to mention, when a worker gets sick, he's also very damaged because he hasn't been paid full contributions. I also have some other fees. Let's say you look at the water bill, you have a water bill, you pay 100 kuna of it 40 kuna, 60 kuna you pay some fees. You have this HRT tax paid by entrepreneurs as well. And I was told by a gentleman who has 32 trucks I don't know that all 32 trucks have to pay HRT fees even though his trucks are abroad, and you can't watch TV or anything but it has to be paid. In Croatia, labour prices are too high, taxes are too high, fees, excise duties and all of this would be reduced. So we have two models. One or let's raise the wages so they can be decent, that they can live on, and that's at least 4 to 5 thousand kunas somewhere, as Professor Lovrinovic suggested, or we're going to cut the cost of life. Unfortunately, the government doesn't have enough courage for each other. Is it because it does not have a stable parliamentary majority, or is it simply a matter of general inert of one legacy that has led Croatia to where we are, they could best answer it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64686	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for this final word. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64687	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right about the gray economy. I'm sure of your assessment that the state is missing in control and that it is quite often satisfied with the mere form that someone has a registered contract at a certain amount and that no one is surprised that the company that has, for example, I don't know 100 million or 80 million kunas of income has people on the minimum and makes 10, 12 million dollars. There's something wrong. That's what any inspector who sees such papers would say if something was wrong. So something isn't how it should be, or most likely, the payment models are done in a way that has not been regulated by law, which the law has not regulated. So if the state gave itself a little bit more effort, it didn't just satisfy the form, if certain transparency increased, and if the inspectors went a little deeper into some thinking and certain activities like what happened with the fiscalization suddenly increased traffic several times overnight. This is not because suddenly people started to go to catering facilities or suddenly tourists started spending more on our Adriatic but simply because certain controls were introduced. I don't know why it wasn't possible or, at this point, it means to do as far as the control of labour law is concerned, or working legal relations are concerned, but obviously it's not done because otherwise not so many people would be reported and unfortunately this law will happen exactly the opposite, not that it will be reduced, but it will increase the number of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64688	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, for the response of my colleague Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64689	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, there is only one reason why there is a grey economy and that is tolerance. So there's some consensus amongst the ruling structures that this state is tolerated. And that's not good. It is not good because we want to be some equal member of the EU, and moreover, if we listen to some of the most prominent politicians' announcements, we will even be a role model in these European countries and therefore allow the state to be robbed. I also talked about sports yesterday about how some sports workers have hundreds of millions of kunas in their accounts and the city of Zagreb doesn't even have a fair stadium. What's really a phenomenon, I mean the only capital in Croatia that doesn't have some kind of stadium national etc.. You have further cases that we have sacred cows, I don't know, you have bosses who, you have tycoons, you have some tycoons that also have incomes, which are completely unknown origins that no one can test. Let's go to Spain. How many prisons did one Leo Messi get, for example? How much I've known for 20 months. There they were investigating Christian Ronald, in Germany you had a Steffi Graf who was the most famous tennis player in the world, so her father ended up in prison for six or seven years. So the simple state can't let her get robbed. What the state creates is a framework for someone's business, if you want someone's wealth, but it has to be respected honestly, honestly, that's the key word. And with us, it's all seen through our fingers, and it's allowed for someone to steal, and then we have the right to suspect that those who allow it are also involved in this crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64690	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64691	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bunjac, it didn't seem like yours to me, so if I understood correctly that you would vote in favour of this law, given that this law carries in its very implementation, and that this law itself has nothing to do with the minimum wage but goes to the employers' hands and those employers who hunt in murky and who, through this law, here are the ones who will now be, will be even cheaper, they keep the workers on the minimum, and so the rest will be paid to the contracted or agreed salaries. And that's what's the fact that we know and this law only legalizes it and in another way makes it even cheaper for them. Because so far they've had to raise funds over profits, pay a certain tax. By hearing now that Minister Dalic and the profit tax will be reduced so that in this unfair practice, they will be well on both sides. On this side of the profit tax and this on the other hand is about the release of contributions. And secondly, you'll raise your hand to make 250 million kunas missing in the health system and when the health minister's congratulations come that no one has asked with an increase in supplementary insurance that will try to fill these 250 million kunas, you will obviously be the ones who raised your hand and increase the supplementary insurance. Because if there is no money, then additional insurance that Minister Kujundzic has already announced will have to be increased. So I'm sorry you're going to have that attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64692	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64693	Thank you very much. What I can agree with you, Mrsic, is that it is truly unusual how the Government when it wants to find 250 million kunas in the budget. So we saw here and when the parliamentary majority was working, there were even more of these at once to get enough hands in Parliament. So when they want to, they can definitely do it. What you pointed out as a problem is also the truth that someone who paid the salary on their hands will be the sole winner of this law. So there won't be any expense. He would simply one part of that money that was paying off on his hands now appear legal, but he would use relief on the other hand. So they're going to use reliefs and they're actually going to be winning employers, not necessarily workers. But no matter what, every step of this government that gives workers their money, and in this case they'll still get some cash in their hands, because one part of these workers still works for a minimum. Not all 80,000 of them working on black. Part of the norm than one part of it really gets, say, the shoe industry, etc. who stand really badly. We'll just say it like that and say let people get that money. Let them have it. And to some, it'll mean a lot. Still, that's it. Let's do a thousand 500 kunas a month. I know it's not some money. A thousand thousand kunas a year isn't some money. Nothing's gonna change, but somebody's got a lot of it. So let us still enable them to get it along with the natural fence that it is necessary systematically, to work systematically to solve the problem of the Croatian economy and society, and in particular the social situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64694	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. The closing statement on behalf of the promoter was respected by State Secretary Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64695	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and respected MPs in the Croatian Parliament, here after nearly six and a half hours of discussion about minimum wage, the conclusion is that we are only talking about a very important topic all the time and that as we had the opportunity to hear today, the increase is not a population, but a need, a real need. In that sense, I would like to point out once again what was the basic objective of adopting the supplementation of this Minimum Payment Act. So the goal is to determine what the minimum wage really is, which is not and what it will bring to employers, what to workers and what workers will get on top of minimum wages. So the minimum wage no longer includes overtime increases, night work increases, holidays, etc. And it will be paid on top of the minimum wage. In addition, the minimum wage for workers brings up plus 163 kunas where it should be mentioned, of course, that this applies to the regulation, and the subject of this item of the agenda is the addition of the Minimum Salary Act, while it will give employers a discharge of around 104 kuna per worker. In addition, it should be noted that the increase of 163 kuna is still the biggest increase ever in view of the chronology of payments, one payment or payment per year, where we can see even the increase from 11.94 kuna from 2013. So when it's asked what kind of strategy is that of an increase related to 163 kunas, then the question is, what was the strategy then? However, it is nice to point out that we should put all this into the context of economic opportunities, so I will not ask what the strategy was then. However, the increase has indeed been since 11.94 kuna. Moreover, there is a lot in the negative context today, and since the beginning of the day, the fact that today is not Mr. Resolute Minister Marko Pavić is not here, and on several occasions you mentioned that our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is not here with us today either. What I must stress is that the Croatian government's relationship, including our Minister Marko Pavic, best shows the results and the results of the Croatian Government as well as the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. And I'm going to list just some and remind you of the debt and deficit cuts, the economic growth, the reduction in unemployment, the almost double reduction in unemployment compared to 2013 when 49% of unemployed young people were compared to 2017 when we have 26% of unemployed young people. In addition, some of the results that should be mentioned are the tax reform that we discussed in December 2016, which brought stability to the system, which brought down the profit tax rate, a reduced income tax, which ultimately brought a two-and-a-half billion-dollar advance to our entrepreneurs and general citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, we should also remind ourselves of the results, these governments, which best show the attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also the parliamentary representatives, which is an increase of 1.4 billion, workers, i.e. public and civil servants, 1.4 billion for our pensioners, secured regression, Christmas, etc. etc. So it was mentioned several times in a negative context, the lack of the diameter of Plenkovic and Minister Pavić, I repeat once again, these results best show the relationship towards the Croatian Parliament, i.e. members and members and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I would like to mention that today a shameful church in terms of increasing 163 kuna for minimum wage has been mentioned. I'd like to say that that church girl was earned, paid for, and one of her lives. Although it is truly considered such a pejorative church, the question is, and what was 2015. Which then is 11.94 kuna increase. I personally do not like to talk in this functional style, which implies such words, however, that is what has been going through today during the debate. Once again, that money is truly earned, paid off, and one of them lives and is worth the effort. What I would like to mention more is social dialogue. Several times it has been mentioned, in which way the Ministry of Labour and the pension system intends to continue to have social dialogue with the social partners. What should be noted is that it is in this 2017. any 9th session of the Economic Social Council. It is planned on 10th for 21.12. and what is specifically to be mentioned and pointed out is that the Ministry of Labour, i.e. the Minister intends to do already in the first month of 2018. to form a working group, which will cover all relevant experts and representatives of the Economic Social Council and other stakeholders who will discuss and discuss minimum wage and future minimum wage conclusions. It has been mentioned frequently and minimum wages in the EU, and since some incorrect information has been said that Bulgaria and Croatia have, that they are similar in this context, it should be said that Bulgaria has the lowest minimum wage in the Union, that is 235 euros, followed by Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Hungary, which is all behind us, only then comes Croatia with 433 euros. After Croatia, Slovakia, Poland, then Estonia and that is 10 countries among the first group countries, which have a minimum wage of up to 500 euros. In the second group there are countries with minimum wage of up to 1000 euros and there are Estonia, Portugal, Greece, Malta, Slovenia and Spain. And the third group are countries that have a minimum wage of over 1000 euros. It is Great Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Ireland and Luxembourg, with no minimum wage at national level, and I particularly point out that there are no 6 countries at national level, which are Denmark, Italy, Austria, Italy and Sweden. For them, minimum wage exists either as a sectoral minimum wage or a minimum wage is determined at the level of the company itself. In principle, there is no minimum wage in those countries at national level. I would like to say that in this context, a minimum wage of 5000 kuna was mentioned, which we commented on the other day. Today, however, this item is on the agenda and 5000 kn minimum wage is indeed an unrealistic expectation and the share of such minimum wage in the average salary would be 83% of the average salary, which is nowhere in the world and nowhere in the EU. But what we should continue to emphasize is that the goal for all of us is to have a higher minimum wage and to get to a percentage, or a 50% share in the average wage of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, I would also like to emphasise that we are fully aware that minimum wage is not enough for a quality life. But we're working on making it bigger, which shows you all the data that I've done several times. So, just this year, it's increasing by 163 kuna and it's the biggest raise of minimum wages. And what I want to say is that in any case, we should always put all our intentions and desires into real economic and financial frameworks. And once again, thanks to everyone for the debate and here it is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64696	I would like to thank respecting Secretary of State Majdi Buric for this final statement. Replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64697	Thank you very much, colleague Buric, in your discussion you touched the results of the government and it is ok, everyone can say, think to wish, interpret statistics as appropriate to show it to their results, to others, to be more modest, less modest, more modest, so it is all a matter of subjectivity. But what's most important is how people see it. So I'm surprised, if it's all the way you say it is, then what makes 75% of the people in Croatia think the country is going the wrong way? Why is that? Is it because here in the Croatian Parliament, for example, we MPs criticize the government, and then people believe it, and in fact they don't see all the wonder of the good that the government has done? Maybe that's the reason? Why do people leave Croatia? 100,000 people left the country last year. When they see how much government and HDZ are trying to make them feel better tomorrow. For what? Here I am, if you can explain it to me personally, I promise that when I see it or my colleague Lalovac or Matic, that we will be actively involved in promoting these results. But unfortunately, there's no such thing as a result. What you're saying is an imaginary picture. Yes, less unemployed because they left Croatia. A smaller deficit because GDP is growing, and nothing is being invested, there is no investment. Pays are a little more than you say, but it's still not enough. Try to be realistic, don't just look at statistics in a way that you think you're good because tomorrow it's going to be, you know that story "Car is naked" everyone tells me it's great and everything is nice, you look great, it's the most beautiful suit, and it's not really there. You understand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64698	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. State Secretary Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64699	Dear Mr. Marasu, there has been a lot of talk today about populistism. I'd say populism is spreading fear and pessimism. And that's what is often heard here today, so the fear of the pensioners that they won't be able to come to some reviews, etc. There were a lot of such statements, expressions related to employers as if they were the biggest bogeyman. It's precisely the greatest populism to spread fear, pessimism, black thoughts. And I think that this element and segment must have a lot of impact on these 75% of the people you've listed and the ones you're talking about. I'll just say the following is that the number of insurance companies is therefore, the people that are registered as insurance companies to HZMO million and 498 thousand, which is the increase, so when we talk about reducing the number of unemployment then we always put it in the context of employees, so we see that the number of employees is growing. And we always have to look at the context beyond what's just one element. So, I didn't just say that the number of unemployed falls, really thinking about employee growth. So, indeed, the government of Andrej Plenkovic within a year really has something to boast about, but as time runs out, I won't be able to say too much about it. But what I am pleased to mention is that the relationship of this government to both the Croatian Parliament and, above all, towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia shows results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64700	I would like to thank respecting Secretary of State Majdi Buric for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64701	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. She gave a nice speech to the pirates about what the government is doing, how the government is doing, but it's not, therefore, defending the prime minister and its minister, but she hasn't answered any of the questions that we asked in the discussion, so I'm going to be taxing and repeating these questions now, so I'm asking that the secretary in her answers be related to questions and not to piar. So, when you say that the number of unplotted young people has dropped because they left Croatia, therefore, you have the analysis right in the analysis if you have read it, there it is mentioned in the analysis that the decline in the number of unemployed young people is due to their departure from Croatia. You mentioned that new measures will be introduced in the system for the leather industry for the textile industry, while at the same time this reduction of the basis for the contribution will, therefore, be given two support in the system, some will receive one support. So explain it to us because what you're predicting right now is some kind of weird measure that's going to take a while. Secondly, you can say very clearly here in front of everyone that this measure will not lead to an increase in the contribution to supplementary health insurance in the coming year. That simply our citizens know that they will not, with their contribution to additional health insurance, finance employers who will pay minimum wage because 250 million kuna is extremely large. You have not made an assessment of the impact of the regulations, so you have no fiscal impact assessment and I want you to tell the Croatian public clearly whether it will be passed on to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by increasing the contribution to supplementary health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64702	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. State Secretary, Mrs. Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64703	Your Honor, Mr. Grouchy. Here I will start with your first question about young people, i.e. measures of active employment policy. In fact, in the 3rd month of this year, the government voted a billion-and-a-half kuna to encourage the unemployed, which is employed and related to 9 active employment policies. There is also a self-employment measure that is being redefined in a way that young people who are self-employed instead of the current 35 thousand kuna incentives will receive 55 thousand. If they involve people in professional training without a working relationship, they will get more. And finally, that figure can grow up to 275,000 kunas of self-employment incentives. It's just one measure. With regard to industries which are particularly threatened, therefore, leather, textile, wood, etc. Yes, in agreement with the European Commission, the Government will propose in the following year a package of incentives to remain in employment precisely for people who are particularly vulnerable in these sectors, and where a lot of women who are over 45 years of age are working, and which is why we need to be particularly sensitive. So we find and think about it, so in January 2018 negotiations start with this and about the Ministry of Health. I must remind myself that I am the secretary of state with Mr Mark Pavic at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, and what I can say about the issues you have raised more focused on the Ministry of Health. It is that the Ministry of Health gave a positive opinion on the amendments to the Minimum Payment Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64704	I would like to thank respecting Secretary of State Majdi Buric for his reply. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64705	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work as announced, we go with the vote, man beat the technology so the system works. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] The first item on which we will vote is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Minimum Payment, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 246. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, SDP Representatives' Club, GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. Before we go to the vote, of course we need to determine the quorum, so please engage. I find that we have a quorum and then we move on to an indication of the proposing representatives on the amendments submitted, I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, the respected Majda Buric, to show about the amendments submitted, please. The first amendment is that club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64706	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the difficult working conditions are not defined by any legal or sublegal law, we find the same versions of the Labour Protection Act, the Insurance Interval Act and other specific regulations. Furthermore, collective agreements, some salary supplements, I quote, "additions for difficult working conditions", with accessories for specific working conditions or using similar terminology. It is unknown whether the rules on the work of individual employers or whether such an arrangement is made in individual labour contracts are similar. In view of the above, it is impossible to assess the coverage of all working conditions which could be covered by such an increase, and some legal and financial uncertainty should it be prescribed that such an increase does not even enter the minimum wage amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64707	Here you go, buddy Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64708	Dear Secretary of State, everything you've said is true, but the fact that there are difficult working conditions in certain industries, and it would certainly not be good if they were paid, too. Unfortunately, this is not the most correct solution because it is necessary to introduce such technologies where there are less difficult working conditions and ergonomic solutions to make these difficult conditions as little as possible but not all of them can monitor technologies, yet in some industries the difficult working conditions are being paid and it would always be good for them to be outside or on minimum wage. So I think that this amendment has gone into a function of improving the quality of this law, and you reject it, and yet I ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64709	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to the second amendment of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64710	The amendment is also not accepted with the same explanation as for the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64711	Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64712	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, and above all in the law you did not define the amount of minimum wage, our proposal was that it was 60% of the average salary. You're trying to convince people that it's possible to live on 2,700 kunas and what's true is that you're punishing those who paid higher wages with the whole law and you're rewarding those who paid the church, the minimum. Our amendment is here, precisely to try to fix your proposal and try to enable workers to be paid extra for work on Sundays, to pay workers for holidays, to pay workers for difficult working conditions, to pay workers for overtime work. Why won't you accept that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64713	Are you looking for a vote? ... It's not clear, you have to say it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 3. The GLAS and HSU representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64714	The amendment is also not accepted. The termology of the provisions of the Law on Contributions, i.e. the rules governing contributions to compulsory insurance, is the concept of basics according to pay. Since this proposal for a law as a special regulation provides for certain derogations from the general rule, it is necessary to use the same terminology as in the general regulation in order to apply it unambiguously. So they're shrinking the basics and they're not paying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64715	An obvious colleague of the Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64716	I really don't understand something here, but it's okay, always, a man should learn something but as far as I know and for many years I've been here there are contributions from pay and pay. Here, though, it reduces the base but contributes to pay rather than pay base. What does that mean by pay? What does that mean by pay? You have a salary contribution and a salary. The base of this salary contribution is reduced. So the termology in the law is very, very inaccurate and confusing, and I think that what we have proposed is the correct and improved legal proposal, or nomotechnical expression. I'm sorry that you refused because I'm sure our citizens who read and use these laws are easier to understand if we've said a base on pay, or a sorry contribution to pay, or pay. This is just a more complicated statement. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64717	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64718	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64719	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 5 MPs Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64720	The amendment is not accepted. The aim of this law is to increase the minimum wage for those workers who received a minimum wage in 2017 on the basis of a contracted, established or prescribed minimum wage or contracted salary lower than the minimum wage without a negative impact on the competitiveness of their employers. If intervened in the legal text in such a way as to include, in addition to the agreed, established or prescribed salary, those actually paid in the past 12 months, and no matter how agreed, established or prescribed, the same would lead to potential dangers in practical application, or would introduce legal uncertainty and would be a bad message to those employers who pay wages contrary to the obligations entered into by collective contracts, or the opposite of the rules on work of a specified height or the opposite of the regulation which obliges them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64721	My colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64722	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry, it's a shame that employers who are back 12 months and you know very well what this group actually paid the minimum wage in the amount of and greater than the minimum wage, this one now proposed. You know that it is not a large number of employers and these people can actually not be covered by this law despite having a good will to back up 12 months to their employees who have been on a minimum payout of those 100 kuna more. I'm really sorry that you didn't recognize this as an additional incentive for such employers who, despite all the economic problems we are in today, tried to give their employees the salary of the 100 kuna more. I know you may not know it, but most people, 100 kunas, that's what it means. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64723	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. So let's go to Amendment No. 6 SDP representatives' clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64724	The amendment is not accepted. In any case, the proposed provision could not be supported in view of the fact that, as such, it is a basis for many abuses. The question of the criteria for the detection and identification of individual employers who are at risk of operating and the criteria on the basis of which precisely the risk of operations would be the reason for the cancellation of the employment contract by most workers for commercially conditioned reasons while, consequently, it is quite certain that a precise provision would affect legal and financial uncertainty. As regards paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed paragraphs, the minimum wage increase mechanism is being developed in a completely different way than the applicable legislative solution, providing for the inclusion of trade unions, working councils, or employers in the process, and even workers themselves could be involved in the process but only in the role of the Autonomous Decision Notifications. This proposal cannot be supported and is particularly unacceptable without comprehensive, deeper analysis and debate with social partners and interested public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64725	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64726	Dear Secretary of State, you are yourself denied by answering the question that you do not want to include workers in the adjustment process or in the compensation measure at all, for you workers do not represent a partner in the conversation with your proposal, but you want to isolate them completely. Our proposal has just gone in this direction, to include the workers and to make a compensatory measure that will allow people not to have a major blow. But what I must also point out is that by your law that you're going to pass anywhere today, you don't mention the amount of minimum wage. So that's something the law doesn't have at all. Your law, which rewards those who paid the minimumer and punishes those who paid higher salaries additionally and this proposal by rejecting our amendment, wants to boost the work on black, wants to boost the import of cheap labour force and will ensure that more people will work for the minimumer in the coming year than in this year. That's what you're trying to do with this law getting right out of health care, 250 million, getting out of health care, from a system that's burdened with debt. Debts exploded to over 8 billion kuna. Retired people, especially those who are old and sick for several months are waiting for a review because waiting lists have exploded three times in the last year of your term, and what is worst is that you take these suggestions to those children who should be treated with expensive medicines. So what you promised you didn't do. In this way you take extra health care, and that's another one in a series of measures you take from the poor to give to the rich. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64727	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to the last amendment, it's the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Amendment number seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64728	The amendment is not accepted. It is true that the Minister of Labour and Pension System, on behalf of the legislator, announced that during 2018 a new Minimum Payment Act will be joined, however, it is not possible to assess with certainty how much the creation of such a sensitive law will take time and cannot be supported by a proposal limiting the time-limiting validity of the law. This is especially because the persons to whom the law applies could be exposed to legal uncertainty as a result of the potential delay in the adoption of the leg of the law due to future unpredictable circumstances which cannot be seen at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64729	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64730	Well, by proposing this amendment, we have actually translated into the amendment what is said on the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, which is that all agree that by the end of next year a new Minimum Payment Act cannot be affected by whether an unpredictable or not can be predicted. Therefore, this amendment is in the best interest of agreements being respected and it is also legitimate for you to reject it with the fact that the message is not exactly the best you send to social partners, but it doesn't matter. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64731	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Thank you, Secretary of State, we are now going to vote on the final draft law amending the minimum wage law, please vote. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and 33 votes against the passed law amending the minimum wage law. The GLASA and HSU representatives' club proposed to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to immediately continue with the social partners a reasoned dialogue and arrangements with the aim of adopting a new comprehensive Minimum Payment Act until 15 November 2018." Please show the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64732	The proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans to continue the dialogue with the social partners at the beginning of 2018 with a view to drawing up a new Minimum Payment Act, however, the outcome of such a dialogue is not possible for now, neither in terms of content nor in terms of time limits, so it is absolutely unwarranted by the deadline for the adoption of such a socially sensitive law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64733	I thank the secretary of state. Then I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the GLAS Club of Representatives and HSU which the government does not accept, please vote. I find that the reached conclusion did not get a sufficient number of votes as proposed by the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. So the conclusion wasn't made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64734	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the law on the continuation of the purchase of pensions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158 Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Voice and HSU and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure are united by both first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. I call upon the representative of the proposed colleague, Silvan Hrelj, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64735	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow at the beginning of my presentation only one brief dyspression. Today is St. Lucia's Day. I must remind you that oil mills opened today in Vodnjan City. Olives were 35 years ago, olives were moldy. They were all sorts of things, kept in all kinds of conditions and oil was bad quality. Today 35 years later at the Olive Oil Festival among 500 exhibits, 75 exhibits from Istria were included among the first 500. Therefore, it is pride and Istria, and the Republic of Croatia. There are some Dalmatian oils among them. And I just wanted to say this, that in our social relations we should also take a step forward, some things differently to understand, to respect some relationships and some technologies, so I'm sure we should progress better as a society. But in any case, our oilers and our olivers, all congratulations. ... And to Vodnjan, of course, Mr. Kleman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I would like to go, it is my pleasure to present today the proposal for a law on the continuation of paid pensions, with the Final Proposal for a Law sent to the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure and 34 representatives of the Croatian Parliament signed an emergency procedure. It's been more than 3 years since 3 thousand 860 pensioners stopped receiving their acquired pension, seriously disrupting their material status in retirement, not to mention existence. Although the previous governments promised that by law they would solve the problem of these pensioners, who unfortunately because of the high age of life are getting smaller every day, this did not happen, so their fear for their own existence is justified, and patience at the end. This was one of the reasons why the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on the continued payment of the pensions collected will continue to provide life-long additional material and social security for 3 000 860 pensioners and their families who, in the long run, expect justice. The reasons that led to the termination of the pensions obtained by Royal Intergenerational Solidarity d.d. It is explained in detail in the assessment of the situation of the proposed law and it is unequivocally that the state cannot deny its responsibility and previously miss its bodies and put them on the backs of smaller groups of society, but it is the role of the state to protect those who cannot protect themselves, which are small people who have not come to the problem with their own guilt. During the three-year expectation of unfulfilled promises and accumulated dissatisfaction and frustration, many pensioners have initiated expensive and long-term individual and collective court proceedings for damages against state-owned business entities and even against a state with a firm decision that, because of the belief in the correctness of their claims, they go all the way to the international court, aware that many will not experience the completion of the proceedings. In their activities they are supported by union centres and retirement associations. Among the defendants can be found public political leaders who were at the head of state and public societies and bodies, and used for business purposes an acceptable solution for the retirement of their employees, underlining, early retirement because it was not an extra opportunity, which was also held hostage to the late law of the original Croatian social innovation, lifelong severance, or the purchase of pension. This law would stop those proceedings. Since this bill is not politically colored because there are no political options whose members and sympathisers do not have among these 3860 pensioners, it is justified to adopt it urgently with a broader consensus and involvement of all political actors and a gathering of common values and project cooperation with a particular emphasis that this law is taking place next. It achieves social justice and solidarity as one of the main objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a function of building a socially responsible society. It provides assistance and protection to the most vulnerable social groups, pensioners, including defenders and stronger social states. Three possible negative financial and social consequences are eliminated by the state over lawsuits for damages caused by pensioners, former employees of state and public business entities, and the cost of the law is far less than the cost of judicial proceedings and the loss of trust in the state. The adoption of the proposed law will correct the injustice against 3860 pensioners and allow for the continuation of their dignified aging but also injustice towards employers of which the majority of those who are in majority state-owned, there are 280 employers who in partnership with trade unions used the purchase of pensions as one of the more appropriate means of taking care of extra employees by believing the state's actions. These people are not taken care of in the way we have decided for Croatian highways to raise international credit, so today the employees of Croatian highways are standing in line who will take a substantial severance. There was no such case here, here a lifetime severance payment was paid at the level of the early retirement pension, so a sort of compensation for the damage. The state previously suggested that it was an acceptable social innovation in line with the Croatian tradition and acquis of the EU, and now the tax status of the pension is regulated in the latest tax reform and remains in the latest collective contract for civil servants and tenants, which means we can't talk about a system or institute that was unknown to the state of Croatia. The interested public, therefore the pensioners and their families, employers, will know for sure that whoever started it and who adopted it, i.e. led this law to realisation, or conductivity, means which government realised it. As I was saying, I wouldn't waste much time because you all had a chance to look at the reasoning of that law as it moved the development of this institute that he had received a special... In 2001, the position of the Ministry of Finance, the Income Tax Regulation, stated by the Government's decision in 2001 that the Social Programme for Excessing Croatian Railways would be resolved and will be resolved through the purchase of pensions, and this is the first and only time that Royal Society is mentioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the government's serious intention to collect pensions was evident in 2004 in its installation into a collective contract for civil servants and tenants, as well as by defining specific tax, tax status. In 2006, however, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which responded after a full 16-year period of retirement in the Republic of Croatia, put this institute and this company into a pillar of shame and after that nothing was as before, or announced that the company was operating outside the law, or that there was no specific legal framework. This is a fundamental mistake by HANFA, the HANFA was then to do so because the HANFA Act enables it to do so, or commits it, it was to initiate the adoption of a legislative framework under which the purchase of pensions, i.e. a lifetime of severance, would take place in the Republic of Croatia and no one had the right to imprison a pillar of shame, or to say that someone was working illegally. Because this is not about individual, capitalised savings as in the second pension column, this is about the payment of the employer to a one-time, and at the same time the start of the payment. There are no 30, 40 years of savings here to start paying off on the actuarial tables, Austrian, German or Swiss. So our future pensioners will also remain short sleeves if the current mode is to account for pensions, pensions from the second pillar. So anyway, only in 2013 are we on my initiative, and here this Life Retribution Act was adopted, i.e. the purchase of a pension and this institute has its own legislative framework, of course it came too late, a company that was not able to comply with that law, came too late and this company launched a pre-fashion settlement. However, if and when someone wants to do so tomorrow, if and when I say so again, it depends on the interests of both the state and someone in the area of finance. There is a legislative framework under the authority, that is, under the supervision of the HANF, that someone can deal with it legally. And to the Institute as I have already said, it is also embedded in collective agreements and has a special tax status, depending on the entrepreneurial instinct or interest of the financier's entrepreneurs to do so and the state's interest to be used by this institute. With better protection, he is certainly much more interesting and much more acceptable to the state than expensive borrowing to share high severances. And I think there's an area of application and interest in something like that. At least according to the enquiries sent to me. So, to this draft law, which was sent to the emergency procedure, the government responded with a positive opinion. The government has given 7 amendments, all of which are acceptable to the applicant, with the exception of part of the amendments to Article 5(2), which has been processed by the supplemental and legislative committee and we think that the amendment of the Committee on Law is a more precise and better solution, not to mind the government, but I think it is more precise, so the Government will have to decide that it will give up on the second part of that amendment. I'd recommend it, and now we'll see what the government in that section decides. Here, that's it. And the SDP Club has made one conclusion that this goes to another reading. And that, in the meantime, Royal's company had sent this DORH to a second reading. There's no need for this. So I have arguments, that is, calls from the management of that society back in 2015. 2.12. to bring all documents to the Department of Economic Crime, and the second when a pre-delivery settlement is submitted, from documents on the website of the FINA, the full state of property is visible. Estimated costs to end, i.e. according to users... pensions, so I believe that the threads need to conduct a second reading, and even less to refer to the DORH because all investigative actions have already been carried out according to our indicators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that I was personally underestimated by my colleagues from the SDP, and the promoters, too, if they thought they were going to engage in something that was suspicious and whether or not they were covering for anyone. It's simple, we just can't afford it. We've known each other long enough not to go into that sort of thing. Here, that would be for an introduction like that, so I'll see if there's a need to take another word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64736	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hrelja, who gave us an additional explanation of this bill. We have one replica, dear colleague Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64737	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelj, in any case, this law should be welcomed, it is an exceptional quality solution that corrects certain injustices from the past, where the state has definitely failed. It was about pensioners from state-owned companies. The state has instructed them, i.e. The state referred their employers to... Insurance, often in some indirect way and with threats of cancellation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how she got rid of it. Let's say extra workers without expensive severances. And what happened? It happened that in the end, the Royal Insurance had failed. How did that go down? Why did it fail, that's the question I'm asking you right now. Some blame that HANFA, others wonder where that money went. We have to say that there are over 4,000 pensioners, a lot of them from Rijeka, over 600 people who worked at the port of Rijeka, and people will be satisfied with this legal solution, because they won't have to go into private lawsuits, private disputes, which, again, are financially treasonous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64738	Thank you, dear fellow Skiboli. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64739	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Skibola, there's only one mistake, no one's forced to, said by threatening to fire people in this kind of retirement, but it's, it's, it's a dico social dialogue at company level, where people were convinced that it was, that the company could handle it, and that it couldn't handle borrowing and high severance. But they will be referred to such a form of retirement, that they will receive a life-long difference from the damage they suffer to leave for early retirement. In a way, they have provided their younger colleagues with a job, or they have provided new employment for young people there when they retire, and they should also look from that position. And the question is, the question of why the Royal failed, as far as I know, is that there are three key reasons. One of these reasons is HANFA, one reason why it never came to a bunch of optimists, in order to get it all back, and the third is certainly what hit us all, which is the decline in the value of bonds and shares in 2008 where compulsory pension societies have been recovering for 2 years, with a constant payment of 5% of the contributions by workers, there was no such thing, here every job had to be directly contracted with a new company. So here are the higher operating costs, but the fact is that for 24 years, I've talked to many pensioners, 24 years paid off and very neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64740	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I call on the Prime Minister, State Secretary Majda Buric to explain to us the opinion and amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64741	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a very short reference to the Proposal for a Law on the Continuing Payments of Pensions Purchased by the Final Proposal of the Law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the adoption of the proposed law, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Independent Representatives' Club and by the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party as well as the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists in the Croatian Parliament, with effect from 5 July 2017. However, considering the text of the proposed law in question, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the individual solutions set out in the proposal in question need to be particularly detailed or otherwise regulated. We therefore submit 7 amendments to the proposal in question, as Mr Silvano Hrelja said. In particular, the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia The proposal for a law on the collection of pensions is based primarily on the protection of the users of the so-called so-called "requirement". Purchased pensions of 3,860 and conducted by the Royal Intergenerational Solidarity Trade Company up to 3 years ago and previously called Royal Pension Insurance. The average age, as already indicated here, is 74 years, and in the past 3 years their existence has been greatly impaired in certain cases and up to one quarter of their total monthly income. Given the fact that the average experience of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia has been recorded that the problem of non-payment of acquired pensions is not only a mere fulfillment of the obligation from a contract but also a difficult social problem to address. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64742	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms Majdi Buric, for explaining the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have a replica about this bill. Dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64743	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. More questions than replicas. The public often asks questions if it is true, and I believe that Mr. Hrelja is telling the truth, that DORH has already received information about the business of the Royal Society two or three years ago because the fact is that there was obviously someone here, there is a suspicion of illegal business, of crime, of guessing private firms, and we would now correct the injustice of 3,860 former state-owned workers, which certainly requires correcting the injustice. It's not their fault for the illegal business, if it was illegal, the Royal Society, what's the plan now, is the emergency procedure here proposed? We see that the SDP Club is looking to go into regular procedure. You've had some procedures to stop you from passing this law, and what is the state planning to do to protect your capital? Because now we're gonna pay the public money for something the Royal Society needed, and who's going to answer because the Royal Society didn't pay what they signed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64744	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. The reply to the replica honoured Secretary of State Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64745	Dear Mr. Vlaovic, first of all, it is important to say that we are not entering the DORH procedures and that the competent institutions will decide after the whole process, a truly factual state. However, what I must once again point out is that we are not going into any DORH procedures, but our goal is exclusively to protect the most vulnerable, which is 3,860 people who are on average 74 years old and that is, in fact, the basic goal of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64746	I would like to thank respecting Secretary of State Majdi Buric for his reply. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed counterpart Miroslav Šimić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64747	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the name of the Independent Lists Bridge, which is among other things along with his colleagues and the co-proposer of this legislative proposal. I can say that this bill is the fruit of a long effort to protect our worst citizens, potentially deceived pensioners. Namely, these people who have acquired pensions will be able to feel relief after the adoption of this bill, they will be able to feel that at last someone cares for them and that in the years in which they are located, which we could hear about now just before and from the secretary of state, before and from Mr. Hrelje, however, they will not be completely abandoned. At a time when we were part of the government to help these people with a legal solution, I can say that many, among other things, wrote to us by the mayor of Komadin, the lawyers of the pensioners, who of course all had good intentions, did not call them because of what they wrote, but wanted this problem to be solved. We have joined our colleagues in writing this legislative proposal, and precisely because of the last ones that I have listed here that represent lawyers, meaning threatened users, we have decided through this legislative proposal and in this way to protect and partially solve the problem of these endangered people. After all, we think that our job is to seek a solution for all Croatian citizens and, of course, those who are the most vulnerable. It is not necessary to escape from what was mentioned earlier by a representative, which is a responsibility that must surely be determined through the competent institutions. Of course, we are in the Croatian Parliament, we do not want to put pressure on other independent bodies as a legislative body, but we also have the right to warn this speaker that we expect a solution in these cases, that the situation will fall apart, that there is some responsibility for this loss. On the one hand, the loss so far has been suffered by vulnerable users, and now we will pass this loss on to all those citizens who are filling the budget from which we will help our endangered citizens and it is precisely these taxpayers who deserve to know the truth, whether there is a potential violation of the law in these cases, or whether it is all the result of severe economic circumstances and possibly the failure of individual Croatian institutions. As regards this legislative proposal itself, as the representative of Mr Hrelja's proposal, has already said more details, I will not be too long, I can only say that the independent financial analyses that preceded this bill and that have considered the financial effects of life-long payouts in general, or the purchase of pensions as an institution of law, have been mentioned here by the law which has been resolved, with the possibility of applying to public sector reform in the care of extra employees, from the aspect of economic profession, have established that the continuation of its application achieves significant long-term savings on the spending side of the state budget, opens up the possibility of withdrawing EU structural funds since structural reforms and human potential areas are being achieved by means of significant financial savings to the provision of surplus workers in relation to one-time compensation, because the cost of the purchase of pensions is not paid by the tax and the finality of the finality of the pensions, which is necessary to the finality. Since, in order to continue the implementation of the institutes according to the union's views and the moods of the pensioner's public, the main condition is the protection of current users and the continuation of the payment of their acquired pensions, they expressed a positive opinion on the proposal of the Resumption Act. The cost of the law mentioned in the budget aspect was estimated far less than that of the first budgetary effects mentioned, and on the other hand, one social justice that we need to determine here what is a very important element of this whole story. The adoption of the Resumption Act eliminates financial damages and compensations and costs of the company at the end of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. We've heard they're initiating court proceedings, and I'm afraid the damage that could potentially fall back on the budget in these court proceedings. That opinion contributed to the examination of the application of this original Croatian Social Institute as an integral part of the package of measures in the reform of the entire public sector, which can be applied very quickly for the needs of units of local and regional self-government. In doing so, they pointed out the justification to include the state in the majority ownership of the pension company and in line with EU guidelines supporting trade unions. So these are all the stories that we have already heard and some of them repeated today at the pay phone and all those who have been following this case for a long time have heard these analyses of financial experts. We, for the sake of all of this and for the sake of above all priority assistance to vulnerable users, endangered citizens, and with the emphasis that we expect to determine the responsibility of the competent authorities, have co-creation and ultimately support this legislative solution which is primarily a guideline of justice and satisfaction for unfairly damaged pensioners, but also for us and the starting point of departure for possibly different thinking of certain institutes to the benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64748	Thank you, dear fellow Shimic, we have one replica. Dear colleague Marin Schibola, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64749	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Simic, one question, for what reasons did the HDZ and SDP governments wait until today to solve this problem? We know that this problem has been standing for a long time. For what reason had there been no political will to go into resolution before?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64750	I would like to thank my colleagues, Škiboli, the answer of my colleague Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64751	Dear fellow Scybola, I think you can get an answer from the colleagues you mentioned here. I can guess why you're now deciding to accept something like this, right, I think you know that because you've used your position in, I must say, at the end of the day, the satisfaction of some endangered citizens, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64752	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Simic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to make it clear in this law that it is a very socially sensitive issue and that no one has anything against the fact that pensioners who used to collect pensions in a certain way are compensated and that damage is resolved. However, what is an open question and what has been raised in some discussions has raised the question of what has happened and why the Royal Intergenerational Solidarity has failed. On the other hand, it is evident that this law came to Parliament on July 6th 2017 and that we have the answer to Mr. Simic and Mr. Škibol, so here I am today three days before the end of the Parliament where obviously the ruling majority decided to support this law, and it is clear that Mr. Hrelja raised his hand for the budget that was adopted approximately a month ago about two or three weeks ago. Therefore, it is very clear that it is also a form of political corruption that we are all aware is there. And Mr. Scibola raised his hand for the budget when he had it when his bill came with changes that were. Therefore, it is facts and should not run from them. What's important is that we see why this happened and that by adopting this law, we don't do any more damage than it's supposed to be. Therefore, it is also the SDP's proposal that we go to first reading and clear the question of Royal. So here is no question and let's not hide it for social elements and hide behind 3,000 800 pensioners who are not by their own fault brought into this problem. But it's somebody's fault. Someone's brought things to this now that's happened. Because it must therefore be made very clear that Royal intergenerational solidarity has amounted to 600 to 800 million kuna. And this bill was at the time of the Social Democratic Government, and we also estimated that it was suitable for discussion, but therefore in the first reading when it became clear about what was going on in Royal intergenerational solidarity. The lawsuits are. So it's known there are certain lawsuits. Some processes are not finished. But you also have judicial judgments which have been sent against the Republic of Croatia which have not shown that the Republic of Croatia has in some way damaged these pensioners. Because if we see how Royal has intergenerational solidarity operated so you have a contract between a company that pays severance and a Royal intergenerational solidarity and you have a letter of intent of the Royal towards the workers. There is no contractual relationship between workers and Royal Insurance. There is no contractual relationship of the State with Royal Insurance and now this law of the State enters into that relationship, rescheduling a company that is a company, which is therefore a company owned by someone. It would be interesting to see the ownership structure of Royal intergenerational solidarity. And what's going to happen to this law, so it's going to be a matter of fees that we have 79 hands in the House, but very soon there will be some other company that will also be in difficulty and will appear before the Parliament, please choose and choose to resuscitate us as you have rescheduled Royal intergenerational solidarity because it's a commercial society. It is also problematic in the law that the state assumes obligations and that I wonder the ministry or the government, assumes payment obligations, but does not take any property from which at least part should be charged by paying the pensioners. Is it because there's nothing there, but then it's clear, or for some other reason I can't figure it out here? And that's something that creates doubt about the government. So the government does not protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, does not protect the interests of taxpayers who give money. They will give money to pay those pensioners for the rest of their lives and their heirs for a pension allowance. And there's no such thing here. There's no analysis of how much property he has, how... whether or not she's there, whether or not that property even exists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, it is also a question of the constitutionality of the law because, as you know, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly come to the conclusion that there is no reverse action of the law. So this law works backwards because we're paying our pensions, so pension allowance from 2015 to here. So it's something that exists in this law as well. The question is whether it's constitutional or not? These are all the doubts that stand before all of us who raise for this law. I'm reminding you again. The social element is important. These people aren't to blame for what's been going on. So they were not the ones who, therefore, were neither the shareholders of that society, so they did not have a share in this society. So they're just, through this society they've been paid a pension allowance and let's not hide behind that social element to cover a certain, I don't know if it's a crime or if it's a wrong system that simply couldn't withstand the burden when the inflow of new insurance, so whether it's a pontian pyramid or not. We don't know that. So I'm not saying that there was a crime or there was no crime, so let's say the institutions involved. But certainly, since 2013, the payment has ceased, that Royal intergenerational solidarity, that is, when the law came out then they deleted from their part-round work pension payments, so they are only now for business counselling, etc. I note, too, that we have a problem here too that the state is resuscitating so the company Royal is intergenerational solidarity dealing with business consulting, because it does not have the right to pay pensions and to pay an allowance to pensions. So that's one question that's very, very significant about this law because it opens up a lot of dubiosis and it's not that simple. Okay. We will now give so many and so many millions of kunas, we will resuscitate the company. If we don't get him off the company of that and that, the private company isn't even the state's owner. The state has neither, therefore, a share nor a kuna in the system. What is also strange is that the Government with the amendments to which it has entered has done the job very sloppyly, because Amendment 2 detailing the intensities from which the HZMO will take over the data and the decision-making process in paragraph 2 of that amendment, which I think is an extremely dubious one, says the Institute for the conclusion of an agreement with the Royal, which will take over the pension contracts. So, the public institution will take over the private-legal contracts that Royal has made with employers and that we don't really know exactly what they contain because it's a business secret. There is no reference to the Bureau to consider and legally assess the individual contracts and obligations arising from the Royal and will now be taken over by the Mirovinski Institute. So we're taking responsibility for the blind, what they're giving us, we've taken over. In addition, Amendment 3 no-technically improves the text relating to the funds for the payment of supplementary pensions, but does not speak anywhere about the price of the implementation of this law and the settlement of costs to be incurred by the institution as a public institution in the implementation of this law. So it doesn't say that this is just a number that the proposer evaluated, so the government or the number that's something different, and I'm going to do that in the end. Therefore, the production of the database, automation, decision-making, the price of the administrative procedure in the first, second degree, the price of delivery of the solution and so on. It's all costing. Therefore, it is not free and definitely neither the Government nor the Proposer has estimated how much more pension insurance costs are. Amendment 5 shall move the payment deadline to 1.3. Regardless of the move of 2 months, I am not sure that the Institute will have time to make good information preparation for the implementation of this law in such a short time, because on the other hand it will not be paid only in advance, but will be paid backwards. So we have a retrograde payment with this law, and so he will, so the office will have two, so two parallel systems. One is a ring payment to the same user and plus payment in advance regularly as it belongs to him. There is also a problem with the six-month period left to courts for the delivery of data to the Institute on users who have initiated court proceedings, and on the other hand, the Bureau will have to start paying for the pension. This means that there is a possibility that, from 1.3, the payment of the pension collected and those who have initiated the court proceedings will not have the information that this and that have initiated the procedure, which is contrary to this law. So this law states that all procedures must be suspended. And what about this bill? Even though there is a very important social moment, sensitivity to slightly less than 4,000 users has not been met by the Government, as the government believes it is the means that are greater than the proposal. The Government of the Republic of Croatia says 35 million in 2018, 42 million in 2019 and 2020. The promoter says 2.5, 3.7 in 2018, 11 or 14 million in the following years with a tendency to decline, which is the impression that no one knows at this time how much it will cost. According to some estimates, this will cost the Republic of Croatia 40m euros, somewhere around 280m kunas because these pensions are inherited, so the first order of inheritance has the right, so the wife or husband have the right to continue to receive both pensions and the addition of pensions. Even though this is a law that is socially sensitive, and yet by respecting social sensitivity, it is an absolute precedent. The question arises on the basis of which criteria will be accepted or rejected for any future commercial enterprise to be in difficulty and cannot fulfil its obligations. Are there even clear criteria based on which the government has decided to assess this law positively six months after it came to the Parliament. If there are criteria other than the budget support criteria. And it seems that the state is taking on the burden of all taxpayers of the private company's dubiosis, regardless of how familiar I am with anyone's business, the causes of the loss of money. I'd like to note that it's been spinning somewhere between 600 and 800 million kunas. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law as pointed out by the Proposer, this is the end of a small recession, correctly referred to in Article 2(4). However, the reference to Article 56(1) is: The constitution is highly doubtful, for the article of the Constitution says each employee has the right to earn a living free and worthy of his or her family. I don't see any connection between this constitutional provision and the proposal for a concrete law. In the end, what will be a problem is that if illegalities are determined and all those who will answer what this law has passed in the House and who will answer that we are citizens' funds, therefore the tax funds were used to resuscitate a private company, along with this social element that no one denies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64754	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for this debate. I would ask both you and your colleagues and colleagues, since we are in the High House, although this is a kind of political stage, to keep one level of conduct and rule against all of us and not to go under the belt when we speak to our colleagues and colleagues. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Marin Skibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64755	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, have been violated by the demeaning and insulting of other MPs. Mr. Mrsic has called here a representative of the Temple for Political Corruption. We can't call it that, and we can call MPs for political corruption, when we know Mr. Hrelja hasn't asked for anything for himself, but he's dealing with the pensioner's problem. You had this legal proposal on your desk in 2013, you didn't do anything, and now you've honored to call yourself a representative of the Hrelja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64756	Thank you. Before you, I have appealed, to my colleague Mrsic, to keep one level of expression to our colleagues and colleagues, and I hope to be honest that we will stay away from such and similar behaviours. We're moving on to replicas. The first to reply came from a respected colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic, and don't forget what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64757	Dear Vice President, I'll keep in mind. But after this presentation of my colleague Mrsic, I'll try to be as pitomial as I can and I'll try to say it academically. My friend Mrsic, being a socialist today, didn't put on a red tie, which I wear today, although I don't call myself, I'm not in a social democratic party like you. Being a socialist is, I guess, fighting for the rights of people, for the rights of workers, for the rights of pensioners, and I think that this law, which I hope soon to adopt, is one law, which is for the benefit of 38,000 if I'm not wronged by people. And I get the feeling you're a little out of your mind. And that you here now have a dispute why it's Royal, the Royal Society for intergenerational solidarity, why has it failed? So pick up some kind of criminal application, raise some back-up, find out what it's about. And I'm for you to see what's going on. Is that a set of circumstances, these are criminal acts? But this law doesn't solve that part of the problem. It solves, meaning 3800 and how many pensioners, who are neither guilty nor in debt, are in a position not to receive their earned pensions. And I'm sorry that you, as a member of the Social Democratic Party again, and you had the chance, you said it yourself, it was interesting, that you had the opportunity to adopt it, so you didn't have the opportunity to adopt it, so you didn't adopt it. And now I don't know which excuse you will find in front of your voters, in front of your voters. I said how long ago it would have been better if you hadn't gone out for a pay phone and said you had it on your desk, and you didn't put it in the procedure. Thank you, colleague Hrelja, thank you for this law, thank you for supporting the budget. This is the right way to fight for its voters and for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64758	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for his replica, thank you for his obedient request. We have a reply to the replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64759	Dear Representative Zekanovic, no one is saying the problem of 3800 pensioners, who received the pension supplement through Royal intergenerational solidarity. I didn't say one word to you that it shouldn't be solved. But before this is resolved, we need to clear up the situation and see where the funds went missing and why it happened. Because according to the deal between Royal intergenerational solidarity and the company, it is said that the foundation of the severance paid by the company is the Royal Intergenerational Solidarity, that, that the pensioner will receive it mortally in addition to retirement and that the supplement will be as hereditary as his pension. According to that, it's not a respected contract. And the question is why? And that was the question in 2013 when he came to our table in the government, this bill. I have before me the opinion the government gave. So the government then said that the text of the law is acceptable to the debate in the first reading, plus the previous fulfilment of the following conditions. The Ministry of Finance needs to carry out financial tax supervision, a deep analysis needs to be carried out through authorised audit houses that should be an integral part of the final law proposal. The proposed law should be implemented by the HPB Invest, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office should not be the payer, Royal property is transferred to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. So these were the conditions for the law to go into first reading. None of this is respected, a pre-departure settlement was launched, which was stopped and simply, apparently nothing could be done and that society was in bankruptcy. So we're resuscitating her to a company that's in bankruptcy. And those are the facts, no one's saying that these people shouldn't be compensated, but before that we need to determine the fact of what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64760	Thank you very much, dear fellow Mrssic, for your reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64761	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said you didn't want this bill to go into emergency procedure, because you think it's important to clarify first and foremost the circumstances that happened with the funds paid by the employers in the Royal company. However, I feel quite the opposite of you that you should go into emergency procedures and there is no reason not to go into emergency procedures and that all 3800 pensioners have been without that supplement long enough. Not with your own guilt. So they retired because the employer paid the Royal company a certain amount based that they were supposed to receive a monthly supplement and received until what happened. So, I think it's really fair and that we're all socially sensitive when we think about it that the sooner we need to correct the injustice against our fellow citizens who are in such a situation not by their own fault. I'm asking you what would happen if you went through two readings. Would the institutions solve this issue and figure out what happened just in time to the second reading of a month and a half or two days? No, you wouldn't. So there's no reason to wait, let the institutions do their job, let them see why it came, the company is in bankruptcy, everything is known what property it has. So there's nothing hidden, and there's no reason why we shouldn't go into emergency procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64762	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64763	Thank you very much. I would agree with you if the bill hadn't come to Assembly 6.7. So there was plenty of time for the procedure to be conducted and now all of a sudden, here's the back to the nose. And so perhaps the word political corruption is too difficult but it stems from the situation that this law was passed before the budget was adopted and that everyone voted as it was, no one at all. But you can't get the impression that it's a tied-up store. And that's why it was mine, so the object was what it was. If this had been settled before and there was enough time to thank God from the 7th month until now to get rid of it and then it would probably look different, going to the soul position. So she could have solved it long before and not waited for the last week in the Parliament to consider this law and get rid of it. But on the other hand, because of those people who receive, so those who don't now receive a pension allowance. That's why they need to be cleared up and someone took their money, someone spent their money, that's their money. So that's, the severance is theirs, so that's what the company was giving them when they were leaving for early retirement. That supplement that the state took from them on the other hand because it penalized them. And these are theirs, if anything else is to be cleared up, and we could set up a commission in the House like we love these committees as much as we want, and then clear it before the Royal before we go into this law. So there were a lot of possibilities for things to be cleared up a long time ago. And that's the problem. So it's no problem that these people should be compensated, it's no problem that these people need to get that money, but you have to see what happened and I'm surprised that in the bill, the state takes over the funds, the money and everything else from Royal intergenerational solidarity, among other things since 2011, they don't have any report on FINA. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64764	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64765	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I had to react because certain lies were told here. In fact, it's not true that this is where the Royal Trade Company is being rehabilitated, it doesn't matter. After that, the company would disappear, no, it was in a pre-demand settlement, the Ministry of Finance first delayed the pre-demand settlement and then said out of a pre-fashion, bankruptcy settlement. As Minister, you must know, as former minister, that every lawsuit against the state is automatically activated by security services, the Department of Economic Crime is activated and the tax administration inspection services are activated. So this is the story that was combed from top to bottom from left to right, along and across. You, as Minister, were able to examine all this and solve all this because in 2012 at the 1st month you were the chairman of the Royal company's management and asked for help. And I've known you about the problems with the purchase of pensions and the lack of the law harassed you until the law passed in the Croatian Assembly with your opposition because you wanted to give it to the pension insurance company Raiffeisen fashion that they are engaged in the purchase of pensions and that they are engaged in pension rent. I have a record from a session held in 2013 1.7 in MRMS, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, where you promised them that. So you could have known everything that was going on around the Royals before this situation. In 2014, you had an almost identical proposal here in the Croatian Parliament to take over the payment of the pension purchased by the state, even then you did not react. You've always asked someone else to do it, what you could do as Minister of Labour and Pension System to solve. You claim this is political corruption, I'll say that word, because it has nothing to do with political corruption, in my 15 years of this work I've never asked for anything for myself. And what you later said could be a political trade, then forgive her given my achievements, you insult me. I traded much better in 2003, 10 billion and 250 million in debt returns. I traded much better in 2007, if you're going to call it a political trade when we get an extra pension of 27% that was initially worth a billion and a half a year and now it's worth 2 billion a year, so times 9 years, count the cost. I've traded a lot more with two HDZs and one SDP Christmas government, a total of 450 million kunas. And thirdly, I ask you to open the pages of FINA where all the documentation on the Royal and the audit report and details of the pre-demand settlement, so everything there writes to you, writes nicely and neatly that the cost is estimated, the cost totaled by the users of the collected pension of 129 million. That's almost three times less than you claim. If it suits you to remember round figures of 300 million or about 40 million euros, you continue. But God gave us 20 years to live, so you said what we were doing. But according to your estimate for 40 million to spend, all those who are alive today and God forbid there are more than 3,500 alive because people die at this age, if it were your way, then all of them, so 3,500 should experience or their heirs for 95 years. That wouldn't be possible unless maybe the medicine invented something to prolong life span and that it was an epochal discovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64766	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. This store, I suppose, means an advocate for the interest of your voters. We have replicas, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64767	Thank you very much. So since my colleague Hrelja, who I worked well with while I was a minister, spent 2/3 of my time being relevant to me and not to the law itself, that, the pension insurance company Raiffeisen wanted to buy a pension and we talked about it because we felt that there should be at least more bidders in Croatia to create the market. Yes, Raiffeisen's retirement insurance company wanted to buy Royal when the law was passed but the people were there and they said we'd give us money and there's nothing there, apparently a colleague of the Hrelja. Apparently, counterpart Hrelja trades better with HDZ than with SDP, so it is now seen in this bill. I'm going back to that story again that somewhere between 600 and 800 million kunas have gone missing. Is it a crime or it's not a crime, it's going to be determined by those who did, the FINA reports are one report and the auditory house is the Royal's auditory house, not an independent auditory house. I note that since 2011. The Royal did not report to the FINA and it had to be shut down in 2014 because you do not have financial reports as much as it is. You have a statement from Mr. Bulas for one week which says that, we are eager to pass this law, we will deliver to the state as much as we need to give and what remains in Royal Security will serve to defuse the workers who work in Royal Insurance and bankruptcy will be completed. It seems to me like closing the story, not knowing what was in it, and yet I note that it's absolutely inadmissible for the state to give money without taking anything from the Royal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64768	I would like to thank my colleague Mrsic for his rep, my colleague Hrelja's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64769	Dear colleague, you know as well as I do because you wrote a letter to the tax administration on 31 January 2014 that Raiffeisen was engaged in the purchase of pensions but not for pensioners but for managers to receive a payment of $1 million and a half kuna under untaxable status and to pay it as a third pension column. So 30% right away and the rest of the war, and you've made it pretty clear that they were in a tax offense, but then you didn't do anything about it. And as for money, remember, 24 years have been paid off these pension bonuses with 250 percent indexation, so you count. Take 15 days, so count on how many people it is, what years it is, what average payout is between 400 and 500 kuna, and we'll see. God forbid we live and settle in accounts, we don't have to wait 20, but God forbid in 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64770	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64771	Dear colleague Hrelja, in your presentation, I felt the need for you to justify yourself. I don't think you have any need to justify yourself at all. In our neighborhood, in yours and mine, there is that proverb, “Do not look at the river, but at the river. ” In any case, the same attacks, as we recall, he had a fellow Scybol in his law, and now you're suffering the same attacks you are. You mentioned the time periods and the years when as many things were given to the pensioners and at what time and in which power. Your procedure, the Scybol procedure, the procedure of all of us should go in this direction to satisfy and fight for the interests of our citizens, which is why we are here. So if someone is accusing us of being some kind of political corruption, it's not something that needs to hurt us because it's a struggle and an interest to the citizens of our country and in any case you're right. And whoever wants to portray it as political corruption keeps talking, I think the citizens know who knows what they're talking about and what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64772	I thank my colleague, Klaric. My colleague Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64773	Thank you for the replica and thank you for your concern, but dear colleague Klaric, you don't have to worry about me, I'm not defending myself at all, I'm just pointing out arguments and counterarguments. And as for the conviction of political trade or political corruption, however you wish, I confess to the court only my own parties. And she's perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64774	How nice it is to take care of each other, in the style of Rade Končar. Next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64775	I'll be in the same tone as my colleague Klaric, actually he said more or less than I thought. I don't think there's much we're going to agree on, I was just about to mention to my colleague Schibol and his Law on Raiffeisen Society, I think it's the right way to fight for your voters, and that you've proved to think of them and I'm calling on others who've been making some bill proposals, but I think it was only about populism, that it wasn't really like the law to be implemented in this way. You're here after the second one is shown the right way, you're not in the ruling majority but you managed to do what you wanted and here it is to be an example to everyone who gives the laws just to be able to say they didn't want to accept them. So it can be accepted, there's space and you can work means for your voters in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64776	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64777	Thank you very much. I must tell you that I have no problem with this move that I made because on the day that we handed in, I held a press conference in the Croatian Parliament, that day I cried out that I was ready for the solution to this problem to support Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's budget. So, I've announced it far and all the promoters knew that I was willing to do it, because eventually all these people have concentrated their attention on me personally as let's say some heavy weight, the protective sign of the pensioner around which all these fires are concentrated and looking for possible solutions. And I'm sorry about that pressure, but I can hardly wear it anymore at this age and I said this has to be solved. After all, I am at pre-election meetings and the coalitions Croatia is growing and the people's coalitions have said that I will solve it even if I have to become a minister, because these people are not guilty of what happened to them. Therefore, the situation is clear. I keep my words and my promises to the citizens. Another means to reach the goal. But there's nothing cloudy, nothing secretive here that should be discussed in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64778	Thank you, colleagues. You didn't go in the direction of Rade Koncara I didn't ask for mercy, nor would I give it to you. You stayed on the biggest criminal, but good. We move on to the next debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64779	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, Your Honor, Here's more than an hour we've been discussing this proposal for a bill on the continuation of the purchases of pensions by emergency procedure. But here's what needs to be said that the life-long severance or the addition of pension has started to take place in today's long-term 1990s pensions and has been accepted as one of the more appropriate management of surplus labour from both the social partners and the state bodies of the then young Croatian state. The purchase of pensions is legally regulated only in 2013 by the Life Retribution Act, i.e. the purchase of pensions. The proposed law provides for a continuation of the payment of pensions purchased to current users. The adoption of this law as proposed, but of course in addition to the amendments, will continue to pay the benefits of the pensions collected, and will continue to provide life-long, additional material and social security for 3860 so far users of these pensions as a contribution to social sensitivity, social justice and solidarity. They will provide assistance to the vulnerable social group of pensioners and remove accumulated dissatisfaction due to the unfair threat of dignified aging. At the same time, the possible negative financial and social consequences for the state will be eliminated due to judicial proceedings for the compensation of the beneficiaries of the pensions they have acquired as employees of state and public business entities. In fact, pension contracts are concluded as contracts for the benefit of third parties, so employers who have concluded contracts under the law become debtors to the users of the pensions purchased when the company paying those pensions is no longer able to meet its obligations to them. This law also strengthens the trust of the market and social partners, the credibility of the Life pay Law, i.e. the purchase of pensions and the original Croatian Social Institute. So something that we have come up with on our own by applying to the restructuring reform processes in the area of the care of workers' surpluses before retirement can achieve savings in the state budget and withdraw funds from the EU Structural Funds. This will show the public and the European Commission that the Republic of Croatia has prepared its own social and financial acceptable tools for public sector reform. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia would have taken over under this law the payment of the pensions paid by 31 May 2014 to the beneficiaries of the pension collected would have been paid, meaning what the Royal International Solidarity Company should do on the basis of the contract. The company and the Pension Insurance Office would conclude within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act an Agreement on the acquisition of a pension contract. Of course, here is also the amendment of the Croatian Government indicated to implement this, in which way, in order to protect the pension insurance office, but also the Croatian Government, or the state budget, so that the payment would not start until 1 March 2018, of course, when users or heirs withdraw their claims or judgments for which they would also have to present certified statements that the Pension Insurance Office could take over and conclude the contract and start paying out pensions. On the date of signature of a contract between a company and an institution, the contractual obligations of a company, meaning Royal Insurance, and the failure of the employer's obligations arising from the pension agreement referred to in Article 1, would be subsidised from the state budget. The Croatian Democratic Community, i.e. the Representatives' Club, will accept this bill along with the amendments proposed by the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64780	Thank you, Mr. Carlic, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64781	Thank you very much, dear representative Karlic. So it's just one question of whether it's okay that the state of funds, so the citizens, means the funds that we're all taxing, the tax assets used to resuscitate the company that is d.o.o., which is at this point in the blockade, which threatens bankruptcy and by law assumes obligations and does not, therefore, obligate any letter to take possession of the property as it is. Maybe there are 5 kunas, maybe there are 10 kunas, maybe there's 1 kunas to take over the state's property, shares, and possibly some assets that are on the gyro budget, but there's probably no kuna in that account. So what makes you think that's okay and that's how it's done? Because when the state rehabilitated certain other companies, then first she was the owner, partly, she took over both the company and the employees and the assets and liabilities. Here we assume our obligations and only that and everything else remains Royal, intergenerational solidarity and no one can say that after this Royal released the burden of paying off the pension allowance, he cannot continue to work as Royal business counselling free of all obligations and therefore he does not have to go into bankruptcy even after this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64782	I thank my colleague Mrssic. Answer, colleague Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64783	Thank you. It's very important here that the government doesn't resuscitate the Royal. So at no time is there any talk of the Royal Renaissance but only the commitments of those parts of the pensioners who did not get their share, and of course the Pension Insurance Office, or the Croatian Government, will make an effort to collect the missing part, that part that takes over. Whether this will be possible, of course, will result from an analysis of all those bodies that need to see what happened and why this situation occurred in Royal Insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64784	I thank my colleague Karlic for his reply. We have the final word, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64785	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I just have to repeat once again that the Royal Company is not being rescheduled here, that the law states that they have arrived and not the obligations charged are being directed to the state budget. The same is true of reasons and provisions, provisions of the law. You know that, that this problem is complex because if it wasn't complex and you would have solved it. You know you can't take half that problem because there are lawsuits present. So you can't solve pro futuro without solving the backlogs. And I must at the end of my address here thank the co-proposers of this law by emergency procedure, colleagues from MOST who have made one control of this institute, not too much of the reasons you're talking about, they've been assessing whether this institute is good for the future given that it has legal frameworks, they've been doing legal evaluations, they've been doing economic evaluations, they've been doing estimates of how many people who could use this institute and they've been prepared not to fall out of power to propose this law based on what I suggested in the Croatian Assembly 2014. So this was not a collaboration between the opposition and then the positioning club but was a collaboration with people who were damaged on both sides and on the other hand, and I am grateful to them for such a professional approach. On the one hand, the former, I think he was Secretary of State Sasa Drezgic, a professor from Rijeka, knows very much about the severances and with Professor Drezgic. The cash man is a respected professor who deals with this matter, he was on that MOST team who was combing through it all. And it gave me additional certainty to come out of these positions, of course, that I controlled all available data so that what my colleague Mrsic suspected would not happen. And I thank him for doubting me because he made me look at all the facts before I insisted and entered into negotiations for project cooperation with the government so that we could work this out. In the end, I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, given the 6-month period and it is not the same to accept a law that was sent 6 months ago, the circumstances change and carry out the operation within 8 days. So it takes this transitional period of three months. And don't think they're gonna get around much with a drop in lawsuits. And HZMO doesn't do anything more manually, it's been trained in information. And I think it's also in the interest of the Royal people to hand it over perfectly, because the fact is that the people of their insurance companies they've been communicating with for 24 years and have been in trust relations continue to exercise their right. If that didn't happen, I think I'd deal with those Royal people personally because everything else wouldn't make any sense. But the Royal is done, let's forget it, there's no recovery. If someone wants to deal with it, you well know, if you have read the bill that we adopted here with a large majority of votes in the Croatian Parliament in 2013 that it is necessary to do so, it is necessary to deposit 10 million... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Seven million kuna, well, I see you've studied. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But 7 million kuna, a million euros isn't so little. And they're not on the street and nobody throws them into something that's risky. Therefore, if someone is found to deal with this institute, if the state has or public enterprises, it will deal with HANFA and this story will end forever and ever and ever. Therefore, once again thanks to everyone and for their support and understanding of my political move and those who criticized me and my colleagues from the joint club who put up with me in my dissatisfaction and ultimately I want to thank these pensioners, 3860 of them, or those who live with patience for putting up with us and for being persistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64786	I thank Mr. Hrelja. Before you go in peace, we have another replica, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64787	Let's end up in the same tone. So no one doubts that the system is good, but obviously now you've said yourself, it's not good. Because the Royal intergenerational solidarity under that system has failed. So, you said the bridge colleagues said it was a good thing, and the Royal fell apart. Well, there's some contradiction there, that something's not true. On the other hand, it's not true, the state got all the lawsuits. There's not a single one, though, they're not yet in power, but the state hasn't lost. I would be, therefore, logically, that if the state started mass-losing lawsuits, then we would go by law and settle it and then we wouldn't have the costs. But the state is here in all the lawsuits that she got. Therefore, compensation claims were rejected to the State. Therefore, it does not stand. And on the other hand, you obviously don't know who's drinking, who's paying, not the government or you. I repeat again, if we don't meet the obligation in the future, we should settle for payments in the budget, you say, 218. 2.5 to 3.7 million, and the state says 35 million. Well, then 42.3 states say 2019-20, and you say 11 to 14, so, now, there's something going on around here. How much property he's got, which is a record. And on the other hand, you're involved in the Royal, so I'm just wondering if you're a member of the Royal Foundation and what the role of the Royal Foundation was, that financed certain other things that weren't related to the payout itself, that is, the addition of the pension. So if we're going to put things in the clear now, then it's an open question, what was the Royal Foundation doing and how the funds were coming out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64788	I thank Mr. Mrsic for the replica. My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64789	So the same question I can ask for your membership at the Ana Rukavin Foundation, with me not being a member of any foundation and no idea what was going on, and you as a minister could check it all out, because everything was on your desk. Everything, without delay, was on your desk, but you didn't want it because you promised this Raiffeisen Fashion Institute, amen. What are your obligations to them, I don't know, but you protected them maximum, but remember that they will charge by increasing their actuarial calculations and increasing the actuarial tables as if the Croats will live up to 95 years old and will pay them a fat lower pension. So, just give it to me. I don't mind, if you call on me, I've never been in a relationship with the Royal and I know the Royal and this institute. The Bridge colleagues have checked primarily the Institute and assessed whether it is worth having negative connotations about these pensioners, who are left without paying off the corresponding portion of life pay, or if this is possible in the context of a statistical error, all covered. So I don't have to tell you any further, I don't know why you're personally against it, because you have a lot of people around you in the SDP whose parents, friends, users of Royal Lifetime severance and you could get all the information from them about that whole system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64790	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. Says one folk proverb, “Do not do to others what we do not want them to do to us. ” Well, I'd ask you not to mention the honorable name Anna Rukavina in a negative context and not to insinuate anything. And you fellow Mrssic, best with coffee solve these yours, certain reasonings and attitudes. We're done with all this debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr. Silvan Hrelj's proposal for the reasons, thank the government, State Secretary Majdi Buric and Assistant Minister of Labour and Pension System Mrs. Meliti Čičak for their explanations and amendments. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break to 18.20 hours. It's 6:08 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64791	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Continuing Payments of Repurchased Pensions, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 158. The promoter is GLAS and HSU and the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: "On the proposal for a Law on the Continuing of Repayments of Retirements with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No 158, the debate was held in the first reading.’ and secondly, ‘It is the applicant's duty to deliver all the documentation on Royal Insurance's business to the State's attorney's office until the final draft law has been drawn up." During the debate, the applicant did not agree with this proposal for a conclusion. I now put to the vote then a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Please, let's vote. I find that the conclusion has not been reached because it has not received a sufficient number of votes. We now go to the amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, the Legislative Committee has withdrawn the amendment, so we only have amendments to the government. I would like a representative of the motionary, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja to declare himself to the Government's amendments. Let's take it in a row. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64792	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I have already said in the debate that we accept, we accept all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in front of the motion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64793	So Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64794	That's right, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64795	Thank you. And then we're going to vote on the final draft of the law on the continuation of the purchase of pensions. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 96 votes in favour, 25 abstentions and 1 vote against the passed Law on the continuation of the purchases of pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64796	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. It is before us - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Professional Education, First Reading, P.Z. No. 250. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I call on the representative of the proposings before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Science and Education Mrs Blaženko Divjak, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64797	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, thank you to all of you who have stayed at this point, because although it is a bit of a break in time it is a very important point and it is really time for the vocational schools of the future, and these amendments and additions of the law give us the basis for that. What does that really mean? It means that it is necessary and that is what we prescribe here a clear connection between vocational education and the world of work, then to put emphasis on the quality and attractiveness of vocational education that has often been neglected and out of focus even though we must say that there is 70% of all high school students in the programme of vocational schools that have about three hundredths of them in the Republic of Croatia. So this law speaks of 70% of all high school students. Unfortunately, it has often remained on the sidelines of the event, and also on its own side of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology. However, a plan has been developed for the development of a system of vocational education and training for the period 2016, 2020 and it is indeed the basis for this programme that these amendments and additions to the Professional Education Act have also been made. And really what we want to stress is that although there is a demand in the labour market, there is a drastic interest in professional professions. Here's what we might be able to do, but I'm just going to say that in the last 18 years, so from 1998 to today, the number of students finishing three years of vocational education has been halved. So of the 21,000 we had in 1998 today we have 10330 in three years' occupations, and at the same time we have a great demand for these occupations. On the other hand, the vast majority of students of four-year vocational schools pass state education exams, which is commendable, means they successfully pass around 77%. However, 68% of them also enroll in higher education studies which can once again be the result of their ambitions, means their ambitions that we encourage. However, it may be, there may be two more reasons and what research can point to this is a lack of meaning, i.e. a lack of competence with needs or those who end up having... between the qualifications we have on the way out and the qualifications that employers need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is a unique opportunity for us to edit the system of vocational education, training and there is another reason, and that is why at this point in the two European funds, means the European Fund for, means the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, we have about a billion kuna for these processes, especially for setting up a centre of competence for which our plan is to be in all Croatian counties. So it's not the idea of building parallel systems in existing vocational education, it's the idea of empowering the existing system. So, that's what we got government support and support for, means all the ministries because this bill on amendments and additions to laws other than the Ministry of Science and Education worked on and other ministries directly Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labour and Resort Ministries such as the Ministry of Tourism, Agriculture and the like. I will now take you through, so this law and through the most important changes introduced by these amendments and additions to the law. So the Professional Education Act was passed in 2009 and this is its first amendment, or addition. And at the time it was adopted, it was based on the strategy of developing a system of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008-2013. At present, the activity of vocational education as bodies of secondary education in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and the Law on Professional Education. However, the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework in 2013 in the system of vocational education and training has resulted in legal discrepancies and overlaps of these two laws, and the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework is extremely important to us because it enables us to coordinate the qualifications obtained in Croatia with qualifications in Europe. It means that the Croatian qualification framework harmonizes us with the European Qualifications Framework. Also for the law on, so an important law for this activity is the 2013 Law on crafts. Also in October 2014 the Croatian Parliament adopted a Strategy for Education, Science and Technology which, among other things, gives some measures, although not too many of them and priorities for improving secondary education for lifelong learning and adult education, while among the reform priorities, emphasising the flexibility of vocational education with selectivity and modularity. Based on this, the strategy was adopted, so a programme for the development of vocational education and training was adopted. This programme, which provides for vocational education to be achieved for 2016 through 2020 on the basis of national framework curricula, national curricula for vocational education, sectoral curricula and professional curricula. It also foresees the creation and adoption of national curricula for vocational education, which means editing both the purpose and the objectives and values and the contents and processes of learning, teaching, teaching, organisations and the like. The definitions of all these terms are at the beginning of these amendments and the addition of the laws. The strategy also provides for something that is extremely important to us, and this is the establishment of regional centres of competence for vocational education and training related to the world of work. So they must be in cooperation with the economy and local administration and self-government and educational institutions. So how's that supposed to be? It is imagined that and this is what is already being done, so it is research on the ground that will show what the distribution of not only of our vocational schools is at this point but what their capacities are, what needs would be, which would be criteria for setting up a centre of competence and hence the Council for Professional Education will propose a network of professional, therefore a network of competence centres and by the definition that we give here are centres that are related to vocational schools. Once again, we are not building a parallel system of vocational schools based on the centre of competence, but we are empowering vocational schools. So we're investing in our vocational education, directly. And when I say we invest then I think we invest because we come from two funds, we invest on one side in infrastructure, meaning construction, construction, especially workshops, laboratories, school equipment, and on the other hand on the making of new curricula, on the education of teachers, and all that matters is that schools become actually centres of excellence in the area for which they run. As for the candidate for the centres of competence, so the founders of what the county and the City of Zagreb will say are running the centres of competence and, in fact, by the basis of these means the candidates these centres are named. What is also important to mention is that there will be, there is a possibility for certain sectors, but in the following year, to withdraw funds for these centres of competence and equipment, to strengthen, to equip, to equip, to be significant, and to be sectors in the field of tourism and catering, engineering and electrical engineering, information and communication technologies, agriculture and health, but of course they can also be centres of competence from other areas. However, what is particularly apostrophe in these operational programmes are these centres and are provided with funds for them. We have already developed the criteria and these criteria have passed and they have been accepted so that everything is ready that when the law is passed and the network is adopted that in the next step we are looking for the candidacy and the withdrawal of funds and these billions of kunas that will allow us to really get a very strong network of competence centres for these areas over the next two to three years. And, of course, in the next wave, there may be other areas. What is also being passed by this law is learning based on work which is an effective tool to facilitate youth transitions to the labour market. And that is, of course, according to the European Commission's guidelines. What should be mentioned is that there are at least 3 different models, a model that combines school learning and learning in an employer who is often called a dual model, another model that provides for student practice in the employer. And a third model that is important to mention that is carried out at school, in workshops and other laboratories and places where students can learn with work and based on work. So these are the most important points means in general. And as for themselves, perhaps here we should mention another important newspaper, which is the establishment of a quality assurance system that has both the internal system and the external system and which agencies are competent to do so. So when you look at this draft bill you'll see that at the beginning are definitions that actually harmonize this law with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which I say is very, very important instruments for connecting the world of work at all, means competences with the world of education and all levels. So from, it means from the lowest qualifications to the highest. As far as this law is concerned, it includes qualifications at levels 2 to 5 according to HKO. Furthermore, the next thing we know is that learning based on work is also important, so it also states, and that is the basis for introducing different forms like this. dual education. The period of international mobility that a student can carry out in another country is also recognised by an employer or an institution for vocational education. This is very important to decriminalise students of vocational schools compared to high school students. Once again, it's 70% of our high school population. In particular, EC and VEC are introduced, meaning credit points used in vocational education and the scope of qualifications are thus determined. The professional curricula also prescribes that 79% of credit points in compulsory meetings, learning outcomes, and 30% of credit points in election learning events, and that is important because it gives autonomy to school that through these electoral modules these schools can be distinguished and in some way put on important emphasis and thus promote themselves and are specific to the selection of schools. So these 30% that... The further text in Article 6 is set out as I said, the national system for ensuring the quality of vocational education where only the evaluation and external evaluation differs in particular by bringing the methodology and areas of evaluation of the institutions for vocational education to the Agency while external evaluation is carried out and bringing the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education back in cooperation with the Agency but it is very important that this difference between only evaluations and external evaluations, given that it only significantly strengthens schools in capacity where they must recognise their advantages and their shortcomings and in some way make development plans in order to influence their advantages and actually raise the school to a higher level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 9 introduces a Council on Professional Education of 20 members appointed by the Minister but it is clear who makes proposals since the proposals are such that they come from HUP, HGK, Chamber of crafts, trade unions, different ministries, HZZ agencies and 4 are representatives of institutions for vocational education and is one representative of university studies and professional studies. It's postulated here. The Council shall appoint for a period of 5 years. One of the more important things to point out is to launch initiatives to adopt new or modify and supplement existing curriculas, propose measures and activities of the development strategy of vocational education, give preliminary opinions on the adoption of the network and designation of regional competence centres, and perform other tasks that are in line with the designation decision. What is also explained here is that the teaching year for acquiring qualifications at levels 2 to 5 can last and more, so it can take 40 weeks so that it can fit well into practice. Furthermore, Article 14 of this same article clearly states that minors’ regular courses and exercises are organised in time from 6 to 22 hours and should not be longer than 8 hours a day, the minimum duration of working days of rest, as well as the breaks that are necessary here, which is very important to stress that it is intervened in this way and prescribed that it is also in justified reasons and, at the request of the institution, with the previous opinion of the Professional Education Agency, the Ministry may also approve a different teaching organisation if it concerns some special, for example, crafts interests that require a different working regime. Of course, all the required measures of protection at work are carried out here as well. Article 15 is really a newspaper because it prescribes the name of regional centres of competence, I have already described in the introduction what it is. The centre is a place of excellence of vocational education and training, where, with the basic activity of vocational education, which includes learning based on work, performs and training and other activities that contribute to improving the quality of vocational education and training and adapting it to the needs of the economy and the labour market, this is very important. And now in the activities of the centre it is prescribed to conduct learning based on work, professional training of teachers of professional subjects, encourages the participation of educational institutions at all levels of economic operators, then the activities of promotion of professional professions, which is extremely important in order to reach those students who are candidates in vocational education because we know that the interest in individual professional professions, as we said in the introduction, has not been quite great, has actually been halved in the last 18 years. Furthermore, funds for the operation of the centre are provided by the founder and the centre can obtain revenues from other sources in accordance with the law. There should also be said that given that the centre within the vocational school is then it is clear that the Ministry of Science and Education provides certain conditions, for example pay while decentralised funds are used for purpose as is already the usual but the emphasis is that the centre can obtain revenues from other sources. So there is this component of self-sustainability since the possibility of lifelong education and training here is particularly highlighted. And the main features of the centre are also innovative teaching methods and teaching models and once again all based on work to get participants who will later be faster, better and easier to achieve and better contribute to the labour market. Of course, the centre network contains a set of parameters and detailed guidelines related to and with a spatial schedule of regional representation, respecting an even regional schedule, and would in particular stress that only now in this first wave of competence centres that will be financed from two European funds, place the idea of this regional representation in order to get at least one centre of competence from these five priority areas, which gives the counties the ability to coordinate their county strategies, development strategies, the vision of the development of the county with the capacities they have in vocational education and at the same time gives them the opportunity to raise these capacities, empowering institutions or institutions of vocational education which then become centres of competence and which thus connect, therefore, do not only work in that school but connect related schools in the surrounding districts and students through the centre of competence can also get opportunities for the development of studentpractice , laboratory practice and use of laboratoryfacilities . and in this way we have better and more coherent cooperation between programs that are similar and once the curriculadevelops , then this developed curricula can practically be relatively fast integrated into more schools and thus also teachers who teach these students have the opportunity for basictraining. The founders who, therefore, propose institutions for vocational education, for the appointment of a centre, a fundamental development plan for a period of 5 years, and these minimum conditions, which are listed here, are now important. Thus, the regional economic need expressed, which is demonstrated by cooperation contracts with relevant economic operators, respecting the needs of the economy and the labour market in the area in which the centre operates. The number of participants in vocational education and training in the education sector or sectors in which the centre operates in accordance with the network, concluded contracts in cooperation with other educational institutions. So that's what I was talking about, meaning other schools, higher schools, to enable this vertical passing. Because it's not the idea, that actually, for students of vocational education, to prevent transition to higher education, it's actually done the opposite, especially for 4 years of programs. It means that he had one flexible approach, that the students could... through mechanisms that are already getting up now into higher education, but they can enter the world of work and return afterwards and continue their study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's particularly apostrophe here, when we talk about high-school collaboration with high-school professional programs, to kind of strengthen that relationship. Of course, cooperation with professional chambers and other institutions, which contribute to the quality of vocational education, the education sector or the sector in which the centre operates. Let us also note the functional sustainability of the centre in terms of relevant financial, personnel and material resources in line with the network. Of course, the link with the development plans of founders, spatial conditions for the implementation of vocational education and training, which is provided at one or more locations. So it's important to point out that it doesn't have to be all in one location. Of course, the ministry checks such collection of proposals, to see what conditions are actually met, points to the previous opinion of the council mentioned earlier. The Council shall give its opinion within 15 days until the request for an opinion has been delivered and on the basis of the opinion of the Council and in accordance with the network previously established, the Minister shall decide on the appointment of institutions for vocational education. Of course, it's not cemented, because that network can be revised, as the centers can be complemented. After 5 years, a re-application must be made, a certain school, an vocational school for the centre of competence and at that time, a revision of previous plans shall be made and the audits of the plans submitted for the following period shall also be carried out. Here, this is what I think, was as short as possible, to go through this law and to get some insight into what the changes were introduced here, why they were introduced, and I'm sure these changes contribute to what I said earlier, first of all about connecting vocational education with the labour market, using the instruments available to us, through the Croatian qualification framework, building, empowering our system, vocational education, and not building a parallel system across the centre of competence, which, in fact, in some ways, could exist independently, but that would actually mean that our vocational education remains both without resources and without the possibility of development. And the question is, why would all this work together? So, once again, this is the time and time to really start the changes that these vocational schools are going to introduce in the 21st century. Unfortunately, our vocational schools, they're not, and I'm really looking forward to your constructive proposals, so that we can make these amendments and amendments to the law, as we need to, and improve them, but to put them into office as soon as possible, and based on that, empowering our schools, we are withdrawing these billions of kunas from European funds. And actually to realize that vocational education is not a second-rate education, but rather education, in which there is a large majority, means more than 100,000 students in Croatia at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64798	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs Blaženko Divjak, for this explanation of the bill. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64799	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I'll try through a few replicas and later on in an independent debate, take a little part in the reflection of this law. I have to say here at first, I've been working in vocational schools for almost 12 years, so I consider myself competent to talk about this. I don't know if there are any other colleagues who have done the same, but I personally have, so I am extremely pleased to participate in this debate. You mentioned in your presentation 21000 was '98. students in 3 year old schools today only 10,000. I would dare say that this decline in the interest of vocational school, not perhaps the drop in the quality of education in vocational schools, but also the climate in society. Because today it's such a climate in society, where here it is suggested to young people that everyone has to be managers and simply, that would be me, some kind of original reason. With the fact that I have to say here, when I'm speaking in general about vocational education, I've also graduated from vocational school in the '90s, and I was the last generation in the Shuvar system. And here I have to point out that I'm a little sorry that it's from the system, I'm not going to say it in that form, but in part today they wouldn't apply it. That system, in my opinion, was much fairer than today's system, because for the first two years, it gave everyone the opportunity to go to school wherever they wanted to go. A young man or a girl from 14, 15, when she's enrolled in high school, she doesn't have a single sense of what she wants to be in life, so I think that this period could be expanded and that one form of preparatory and final education, I think it should be applied today, it still exists in some form, but not to that extent. So, in fact, a period of decision is extended to young people, which will one day be in life. Here's to starting with so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64800	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic, for the replica. Answer, dear Minister Blaženko Divjak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64801	Thank you very much for this, meaning a boost to this debate, a very important note. So here when we talk about craftsmanship, about three-year occupations, that's where we get the biggest drop. And one of the instruments of how these professions can be improved is the creation of new curriculas that have more emphasis on work where vocational education is more attractive, where schools are more equipped, where schools are better, more often and more intensively co-operated with employers. An example of such cooperation and an example of such curricula will be given I hope very soon since, just this week, we have launched, or had an initial meeting of the Croatian-Switzerland project with 15 million kuna precisely for these three-year professions, craft professions. So that's one thing. The second thing and I particularly welcome this approach means that it is not going to close access to higher education but vice versa that vocational schools, four-year-old schools have a very clear pass towards higher education and even if a certain interruption is made and it is done for a while that the entry into higher education must also be such that it is clear and that it is possible. So, here, thank you very much for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64802	I thank the minister for her reply to the replica. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64803	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, that you mentioned a few things in your presentation, first of all, and colleague Zekanovic clearly saw that the number of our students is falling drastically and, of course, this should lead to the context of education itself, of course, the labour market itself. Namely, what is defeated is that according to some data I found that this year is not even registered in Zagreb alone, if we will view as the capital and a quarter of Croatia as no jeweller, tailor, florist, tailor, carpenter, or food technician. We also have a life example from Osijek-Baranja County, from Osijek where I come from, where several hundred million jobs are provided through the Ministry of Construction only this year and in the following year. What is missing, of course, for all the construction companies that are going to be reporting is the workforce. That's what we're saying first and again here in Zagreb is the same situation with construction technicians, i.e. builder, fasadeer, etc.. I don't even have to speak in the tourist interests of hotelers, chefs etc., I think we should certainly work to popularise these educational structures. First of all, I think we're already too late. When we look that only the last four years have been available to us these billions of kunas and we haven't done anything, so I'm saying that this is already not 5 to 12 but fat behind 12 because we know how long it takes to educate and how to get new labour into the labour market. And what this law brings is this duality that we now have thanks to God after school people who know how to do their jobs, who have been educated. And that must be an example, not only of professional professions, but later tomorrow and in higher education because today we have lawyers coming out of college who have never seen a lawsuit before, the submissions don't know what it is, etc. But this is the first step we absolutely welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64804	I thank my colleagues for the replica. And the answer. Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64805	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished ministers with their associates. Here's to the HSS Club. And here's a question, today Prime Minister Plenkovic announced that he personally takes over the co-ordination of the Education Reform Committee. What does that mean, he wasn't happy with Mrs. Diana Vican who thanked him for his cooperation? And how much trust do you have and your team by the prime minister that you can work on your own and implement education reform? We welcome, of course, on behalf of the HSS Club the debate and the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education because we are aware, without investment in vocational education, there is no growth in the economy, there are no new jobs. And the fact is that the big problem is how to motivate employers to continue working in their workshops, in their facilities, students do learning, practice and later on. First of all, you have a decline in the number of craftsmen and entrepreneurs due to the general economic climate and also dissatisfaction with the existing approach and what were the legal solutions so far that most craftsmen fled from having scientists, to have students in their workshops. And how do you intend to handle it? And of course we welcome the establishment of regional competence centres, the key question is who will accredit them and who will be employed. We think that this, you pointed out well, must be close cooperation with the region's economy and that these teams should also be representatives of successful economies and craftsmen and also professional education agencies in the external evaluation of the benefits of the knowledge and profession of craftsmen and successful entrepreneurs. Well, maybe you should think that way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64806	I thank my colleague Vlaović. And the answer, dear minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64807	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank you for your support for making these amendments and supplementing the law. I agree that it is extremely important for us to coordinate, so how does this cooperation work between employers and the meaning of vocational schools. It's an important instrument for our standard of interest, so where are employers asked to show their needs? What are these needs and how future needs are also projected in some ways. It is only on the basis of such standards of occupation that a standard of qualifications is developed, which is then the basis for the programme. And in these standards qualifications an important place must be learning based on knowledge or practice, practical work which is one of those three forms that we talked about. As for trust and the prime minister, I think that we have received support for this law, and I assure you that we will get for the next one, it is clear that the Prime Minister is here to support and finally this House. When it came to plans for next year based on the achievement of last year, it was clear what the priorities were. The first priority was to introduce an experimental phase of curricular reform for next year, and only in the jurisdiction of our ministry and, of course, to introduce IT as a mandatory subject in the fifth and sixth classes. This support for vocational education is particularly important because it is also in the plan of the National Plan for Government Reform. And I have to point out that for the first time that this really is an vocational education in focus, this really is an vocational education in focus. As far as the special expert commission is concerned, it is well appointed, because the strategy of education, science and technology is very wide. And the special expert commission has the task of coordinating, meaning the activities of this strategy with another strategy, monitoring the implementation so that it is an important link between, meaning the implementation itself and the Croatian Assembly. Of course, if we read what are the tasks of a special expert commission, we can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64808	I thank the minister for her reply. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64809	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you're doing a good job. I hope you can make it to the end of it, but in this law, I'm worried about two things, one thing is that we're doing so many changes. So 37 articles, 16 amendments. It was perhaps wiser that the whole new law was written because it had so many changes that it was probably very difficult to cope with in the very points and articles of the law. And the second thing in the law was the centres of excellence in the sense that these centres of excellence were out of school. So they're tied up, so with companies where, so those who are educated for professional occupations, where they're going to have their own practice. The European Union has also recognised this in the programme itself, therefore effective human potential, professional education has been removed completely from education as a special programme, seeing the problems we have with vocational education. It seems to me that the sooner we renew our schools, the sooner we're going to be able to get rid of the existing network of schools, and we're not going to work in vocational education in the sense in which they are, which we have this example not far from here in Austria or Germany where vocational schools are usually related to some large systems. For example, why in Split next to the shipyard would not be a large metal school and a student home. The EU will also receive funds for this. I'm afraid this is the way we're going to do it, so we're going to rebuild schools but not with the technology that it's supposed to be in. Because machines are more gentlemen, not those who chicken and measure, but those who work on CMC machines, and they are very expensive. Therefore, it seems to me that with the desire to restore schools as soon as possible, we have lost sight of this moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64810	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. Answer, Honorable Minister Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64811	Thank you very much. I thank you for your thoughts. Here, therefore, as far as the scope is concerned, it is important to highlight this first amendment to the law that was passed in 2009 and in this sense there were clear intensities, meaning compliance with other laws of things that are new centres of competence and quality assurance in vocational education. As far as the centers are concerned, I said the idea was to strengthen the system to establish the network. The network is prescribed by another law, it's the Law on Education and Education, and here we're talking about the network of competence centers. And in that sense, the idea of them being tied to schools is just like that that school actually gets a chance to empower itself. But not only the school, but it can't be a school for itself, but it must have, as the law requires, a very clear link with economic operators who are related to the school signed cooperation agreements, signed practices contracts especially where this model of combined, means teaching or means working in, meaning half at school, half at that center. And in that sense, it's also recognized by operational programs. So in the first wave of this Centre competence that will be appointed it's recognized in a way that says that the funds can be used for secondary vocational schools, meaning the saying. So they couldn't even be used in a way to start special companies without saying that we're setting up, by any chance, 21 special companies. We'd have 21 directors, a secretary, space, and so on, and then the question is, did we spend our resources on purpose? So the funds will stay this way in schools I assure you if the procedure follows, and we will try to follow, that we will benefit from it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64812	I thank the minister for her reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, in your opening presentation, presenting amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education, you stressed that this proposal introduces a term of learning through work, and I support that. However, I do not support the fact that this term is literally just mentioned. I am afraid that through these amendments and the amendments to the laws we will not take an absolute step forward towards establishing a dual education system despite the fact that, in the State budget for 2018, significant funds are provided for this precisely in accordance with the contracts signed, it seems to me with Switzerland. Why am I saying we won't make the necessary steps? Because our system continues to function in a way that our curricula, even those new ones that appear in vocational education for the last four years, are quite closed, not half open or open-minded. And secondly, in this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, you went one more step further, so you're a whole sectoral council, like some sort of set of people coming out of some kind of profession, and you're still assuming that curricula is adopted with the consent or opinion of the sectoral councils. So if you can just explain to me how you intend to take a step towards learning through work, i.e. through dual education, and on the other hand, by proposing a bill, you completely throw the sectoral council out of the curricula process, i.e. delete that article of that law, but on that point, I'm going to put something more into the club's name.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64814	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. The answer of a respected minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64815	Thank you very much for your questions. So here you really lay the foundations to allow in schools more practice by three different models. As for the dual, dual education model, he's in the process and he's actually, he's the basis of the day in this law, but we need to be aware that he's getting into a lot of other laws that he also needs to intervene in. So it's not the only law to intervene in. That's the first one. Secondly, you noticed well and I mentioned earlier that, that we also signed this contract with Switzerland for 15 million kunas where curicula will be developed in cooperation with Swiss agencies that have very good curricula related to vocational education. And of course the curiculum procedures are such that they follow HKO. It's just that there's no sign of the HKO Act here, it's referencing to the HKO Act. So even the other way around, I'd say there was a double procedure or a different procedure, but the idea is that, in fact, according to the HKO Act, first of all, on the basis of the employer's instructions, there are standards of interest. Based on the standard of interest, standards of qualifications are developed and then schools in their educational programmes harmonize educational programme with the standard of qualifications with that flexibility that we have said of 30%. So I would say that this is a very good foundation and that this double line is broken that way. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64816	I thank the minister for her reply. Next replica of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64817	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished minister with the associates. The fact is that vocational education has been unnecessarily neglected all these years, our programs are out of date, our schools are unarmed. You yourself said in your statement that there are fewer and fewer students enrolled and the labour market is calling for well-trained personnel. We must, of course, look at this law and how to provide better working conditions for students but also of course to teachers. We need to stop training immediately for Dublin and Munchen, so we need to adapt it to the domestic market and there must be a better dialogue between the economy and the Ministry of Education. Local communities, although recognized in this crisis, here is our Ship-Posavia County recognized the deficiting craftsmanship, so it began to grant itself some craftsmanship. But I'm sure if he does quality work on the Reform of Professional Education, Mr. Vlado Sprayo, as he did at our high school, Matija Antun Reljković will raise it to an envious European level.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64818	I thank my esteemed colleague Maximchuk. Answer, Your Honors Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64819	Thank you very much. I thank you for all these suggestions. I also thank you for commending my assistant, Professor. Spray, so he really worked on it a lot and I assure you that he will continue to work because a man comes from practice so, from his school in Slavonski Brod which was a school where children were ashamed to enter, he brought the school to the level that if it were a college no one would, no one would complain. So it really is. I also assure you that this was the idea that we give the counties the opportunity to show their development needs and to influence the development of vocational education directly in their area through the centres of competence that will serve among other things and to provide professors, means mentors and further training so that they can work with students not only to convey knowledge but also to develop skills and attitudes that are important for a broader education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64820	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary for her reply. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64821	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable minister with her associates. Well, I'll just get started and then through the debate we'll refer to that private part of your opening statement where, and say of course I'm standing completely and I support your position, that between the other and everything that's going on around vocational education these days. Here are the amendments and additions to the law, among other things, towards strengthening the overall system of vocational education. I think it is also very important that professional education should, first of all, be restored through this law and through a number of other activities, and restore the interest in professional professions which will, first of all, provide for future young people through employment and self-employment and then further professional development and improvement of course on the concept of lifelong education. And in order for all of this to be achieved, it is very important that our vocational education is linked to the labour market, if we are to achieve all of this. And in this sense, I welcome the phenomenon and the first mention in this law of work-based learning concept, I think it is very important because therefore learning is based on work, in fact, the basis for developing a dual system of vocational education. Because our goal is, in fact, to teach them how to do all of this, so that later they can work competently and properly. What I haven't noticed, and now it's a question for you, so we know that in the government programme and the education strategy and all the documents is one of the most important points, and especially when we talk about the Government's programme to develop a dual model of education. Either I didn't see right or nowhere, it doesn't seem to me that in this proposal there's a change and a supplement that dual education, a dual model anywhere mentions, so maybe it'll be somewhere else, if I'm wrong, correct me. And just as a hint, just to think, I know we'd like everything right away, but it's impossible to develop a model right now. I would like to think about what model of dual education Croatia intends to define, what do we want? Is that an example of other more developed countries? Is that your own model? Maybe it's some hybrid model, so that's where I'd like to hear your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64822	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic, answer, respected minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64823	Thank you very much. It is important that these professions are also attractive. I thank the suggestion that it is not just about employment, but about self-employment, or that curricula should be such that they also contain these entrepreneurial, development of entrepreneurial skills. Which enables, when a man graduates from vocational education, he can either open his own company, crafts, or something like that. And it has to be part of education. As for dual education, it is for the first time, therefore, not the word dual education is introduced, however, in the article. 5 item 4 learning based on work, is carried out with the employer and or in an establishment with the employer. And it is a model, that we, meaning it is a basis, that we can develop our own Croatian model of vocational education, i.e. dual education. We know that we have different models, we currently have a commission, a working group working on it, and I am sure that we will get very fast results, and also recommendations for intervention, other laws, which should be changed based on that. So, the compromises that can be heard in public, the basic question, is someone who enters a dual model, a student or a worker, so let's say that's one challenge, it would be a German model, if immediately a worker is in the company from the beginning. Secondly, it means who is carrying out the costs, how the working time that goes into different other laws is arranged, and I'm sure we'll get the so-called so-called soon. that Croatian model of dual education. All those who can say something about it, from chamber, representatives, employers to schools and ministries, are involved in the whole process. So the basis for that is Article 5(4).
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64824	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Blaženko Divjak for his reply to the replicas. With this, we have exhausted the replicas of this proposal, i.e., on the interpretation of the bill. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates. Here, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, which, according to the Advocacy Lists Club, is necessary and will bring a certain improvement to the current law and which is in line with the competence framework. In the Most, we believe that vocational education is important in the education system and would not be so critical of vocational education. We think she's solid. Otherwise, our workers, who finish vocational schools, would not be so appreciated in foreign countries. Therefore, they are highly esteemed workers and are considered both valuable and more professional. I think this one, the law, that's it. The application of the law, to bring about a certain improvement and this eternal desire to improve the coherence between education and the labour market in some way. Of course, however, the problems are much deeper which this law and the amendments to the law will not solve. It's not a matter either, Minister, it's a matter of economic policy. So our young people who finish vocational schools don't leave, so it's not a reduction of interest because they're bad programs. It's because when you finish school, they're small salaries and they're out of work. So the problems are much deeper than these changes, but here I say again, they will bring a certain improvement. We have some advice and remarks about the law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1. In both cases, attitudes are left out as key elements of competence, regardless of what is said about work, positive attitudes are also necessary in order to achieve competence. I always compare to driving a car. So you can learn from this script theoretically how to drive a car, when you get in the car, you won't know how to drive it. It's actually a matter of competence. And when you teach him how to drive, you'll know how to drive a car. But I also think that a positive attitude is important, for example. in the village you do not drive 150 km/h but 50. I think in this vocational education, positive attitudes are important and I'm sorry they're left out. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in It should be seen whether it is in accordance with the Labour Act, it says that minors can work up to 20, in your law it is stated up to 22 hours. I think it needs to be coordinated. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this I think she has to be much clearer regulation in law. It is in this law very formally carried out. It is precisely because of the legal framework, until competencies in the field of work protection have been achieved, that it must be worked on, that it is actually training and happening. So that students in contact with dangerous means, machines and voltages would not be compromised and have positive views on safety and safety. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 16. Compared to the current If increasing at all levels is important and if we are calling for generics, competences, then each part of the teaching process needs to have competences in teaching. Maybe it's harder to make it happen. I'm talking about a concrete example, if, I don't know, the student goes to practice at the hotel and the receptionist teaches him on some, he won't be able to teach him in this case, if there are no didactic and pedagogical items. So, I think this mentor institution is also very important in these centers. We also have a proposal that centres of competence could not only be schools but also, for example, shipyards of state, not to limit ourselves to just one institution. And what would also be cited as perhaps in some way a proposal or a remark, means who will determine what the criterion will be, therefore, for the centres of competence. What are the criteria? Do the number of projects, workshops. And we're afraid that if the founders were to be in charge of the center, they wouldn't be assigned by political resemblance. So these are just suggestions how to improve laws. In our first reading, we will support the law and we believe that it is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64826	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64827	Dear colleague of Sladolev, I'm glad you're happy with most of this law, but here I still have to highlight some of the problems that are obvious to me. We have three laws today that actually deal with the same things. One is the Law on Education and Education, one is the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the Law on Professional Education that we are just discussing. The laws are related, and so much is really a little bit of space we put too much of the law, and we know ourselves when laws are related and similar, when they overlap then they actually don't know what law has priority anymore, so I think here in the perspective, this time we're a little late, we should only make one Law on raising and education for children, meaning from 6 to 18 years old and then cover all groups of children, so there's no need for another law. With that also financially one effect here is important for every law should be a person in the ministry who is responsible for implementation so that we can save a significant amount of money here. Here I would point out another problem that is constantly being pushed through, and unfortunately neither of Minister Shuster nor Minister Barisic managed to solve it. I'm going to highlight it now, and later I'm going to explain it a little bit more, and this is about us using a non-Croatian term here, we don't really know whose expression it is, and that's the curricula. I think nomotechnically every law so we need to align this law with the Croatian language either we use the term curricula or the term reference, but the term curricula has nothing to do with, nothing to do with Croatian language and it is imposed there. I'll explain what's going on later. There's so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64828	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The answer of my colleague, Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64829	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, you worked at a professional school. Let me think that the minister explained why this law is passed precisely because of these billions of kunas and why it goes in such an emergency procedure, and what you need to ask the minister not me, I didn't write the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64830	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64831	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague of Sladolev. You mentioned that our workers are highly appreciated too, so I don't think that here is such a problem with this education so far and what we've been doing is how much of a problem it is that it is no longer appreciated by the citizens themselves. So the problem is that when you have something in 10, 20 years, you have half the number of people who go obviously have to be both the result and agree with you on the labour market and economic indicators, and then the enticing nature of that educational institution itself. Because I'm sure something has to change. So this system couldn't have been sustainable and of course what I said I shouldn't have said long ago to start changing it. So, first of all, you mentioned competences relative to knowledge, yes. So this means that we get to put more emphasis on exactly competences, to get young people out who are able to get into the labour market right away. Not to have their own practices so that they only target and watch how masters work, but that they are allowed through these regional centres that they are precisely gaining knowledge beyond the already existing labour market and practice that has been made so far. We know that in a lot of occupations they were left aside and were what the little one would say from the puppy, carried around and played some cleaners and very little honor to the exceptions, of course, and very little to gain that knowledge or skills that they needed in their business. And that's why this law is extremely important that this is exactly what will allow all these people to come out with already acquired knowledge, competences and skills and immediately engage in the labour market. And that's why this school is also an excellent example of high school, professional school in Slavonski Brod. Then even in society, they'll get more secure, more esteemed occupation than we have now, and we won't have this disproportionateity between some colleges and high schools compared to professional schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64832	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. Replication response, dear colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64833	Well, I agree with you, colleague Curai. I think, for example, it's a devastating data that we have a well-developed military industry, so as far as these schools are concerned, we're practically out of business. Carl's an example of that. And what I didn't mention in the debate, and perhaps it would be that these centres should also think about jobs that currently do not exist in Croatia, but are actually the jobs of the future. So we need to think about the future of what's going to happen in four years, because in four years, maybe some industry will develop, and we won't have personnel. Therefore, trends should be monitored and the same should be developed in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64834	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64835	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you, colleague Sladolev, that professional education and this change are essentially positive things and that the three start the change mainly because vocational education is very important for our students to learn through the work. However, there are a number of obstacles that we will have with private companies in which to regulate it or a privateer is that person who is essentially entitled to or seeking compensation that is essentially entitled to or seeking compensation or to charge a fee for work, and that is the question of funds and whether these funds are provided in those amounts. It also raises the question of vocational schools that are equipped with these professional schools for all the titles needed by the market or aged schools and workshops where our students in schools are learning the trade, so I would like you to comment on whether the county owners of the funds are decentralised, but this is a good question and ministers in which they control vocational schools where we literally do not have chalk and sponges and let alone any other tools where in vocational schools students will train themselves to do their best work. But we have no control either, because the founders, I can say, Here in Sinj, it would be good to remind the minister of the vocational school so she will see how the workshops are equipped and how it will work. So this law, on paper, has advantages, however, in reality, whether it will be possible to achieve this is under a large questionnaire because neither the county as founder nor the ministry has submitted financial solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64836	Thank you very much. The answer to the observed law of Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you're right about the fact that we're not talking about the groundbreaking,... full words and it is positive in Croatia that in the last year of the reform, it is finally talking about education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, very often when education reform was also talked about, it was not about the basis, which is the equipment of the classroom. And I think these billions of kunas that we're supposed to get will help with that. Of course, problems are huge in elementary schools as well. I have an example, my former primary school where I worked for 20 years, it is currently the largest school in the city of Zagreb and I think even in Croatia, over 900 children go to that school, work in three shifts and school has no lockers for children because the city simply did not invest in school. And now the parents are back together to collect for those lockers because the kids are losing their paws and stuff. So we're talking about an investment of 50 to 100 thousand kuna and the city, unfortunately, Zagreb, did not find it appropriate to invest in such things. And then of course when we talk about some occupations and professional education that we should actually start with.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64838	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. Comrade Sladolev, you mentioned the question of attitudes and the importance of defining and helping to define attitudes in some way, I agree that is important. However, there is a need to be very careful. So what's the fact that if you look at it, in a public debate, about another law, there's a very strong media campaign that actually the right to raise children is taken away by family and in some ways the state takes full care of it. It means what I would point out and what is particularly important to say is that it is also against the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Protocol No. 1. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and that it reminds more of other regimes from some past times that have taken children from parents to make them... a defined value system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, of course, it is necessary to form views on some of the things about which there is a social consensus and which are only understandable such as respect for the laws, etc. But you should also be careful not to introduce someone's particular value vessels through the education system through the prism, and I think that's something that we should pay particular attention to. So I'm glad that the Law on Education and Education goes in the direction of this pluralism and the importance of family and child rearing, and child education, and I believe it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64840	Thank you. My colleague's answer is "Sladolev." Please, let's narrow down some discussion to vocational education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64841	Okay. My colleague Sokol, so I think education without forming views is sort of a mutilated education. Well, just in vocational education, so there shouldn't be a division of ideological because that's what I mean by a narrow circle of action. And I don't think there really should be any divisions about forming attitudes. So I said that, in fact, with knowledge and skills in education, attitudes should be offered because, in approach to work and everyday work, a positive attitude should be formed. I don't think that even though it's going to be written in law, it doesn't mean it's going to contribute. But I'm sorry that simple attitudes aren't, that they're left out because they're present in primary education and now we're kind of sharing vocational and basic education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64842	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64843	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sladolev, I agree with you here and also use the opportunity to replicate to congratulate the minister on this step, this is a really big thing. Through this law, the Ministry also made great demands according to founders and schools, according to professional teachers, teachers in vocational schools, co-workers, ultimately to mentors who... at the employers'. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that whole story will probably come to life. What I see as a danger is, the law has set quite a great deal of demands and towards the centre of competence when we talk about the activity of the centre and then through the development plan that needs to be adopted by the centre for a period of 5 years and through these various contracts. And it's not exactly like that, when we read it all, it's not exactly that simple a job that needs to be done. And you're right to ask for protection at work, but that's the part of the story. What's actually going to happen to the centers when the ministry forms a network? There's money later for the equipment. There is now, however, the sole responsibility of the founders and the schools themselves to write down what these programmes are, to determine which programmes are important for development and eventually the county and then the entire local communities. Because here's a specific example, I've been asking the Minister for my time, let's say in my county every year 30 technicians, forest technicians, are enrolled on a regular basis. And then when I asked the minister why when we don't have those kids, you don't just have a place to work and he says it's a county thing. When you ask in the county, they say the ministry approved. It will take a lot of wisdom for these funds and for these centres to come into life and really be a service to entrepreneurship in the sense that these young people can get a job after education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64844	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Zhagar, so of course the effects of this law will be seen when the centres are started, then problems will actually be seen in the field. What's most controversial to me and what I wouldn't want to happen and what might compromise this law is that these centers are going to be assigned by a political resemblance that could be the case. I won't be an evil prophet, but it can happen. What bothers me too is just the evaluation of the centre, which the institution will value the centres. Does this center once it becomes a center if it can lose its license in some way to become a center if it's going to work badly? That's all the questions we'll find out in the field when the law begins.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64846	Thank you very much. We will now move to the SDP Representatives' Club in the name of which Sabina Vosovac, the respected representative, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will not support the amendment and addition of the Professional Education Act in the first reading. We are aware that through this law, conditions are created for the use of around 85m euros in funds from European funds, we are also aware that we do not have much time to do so because time flies and since things are slow running, in 2020 it is close and we are aware that we simply need to create the basis for the withdrawal of these funds but we do not think that we will get far by haste. We think there are some good parts of this proposal but there are also some segments that have been entered needlessly and can lead us to serious misunderstandings not to say problems in the system itself. Minister you're absolutely right when you said in your opening presentation that vocational education is actually one of the key segments of the education system in the Republic of Croatia, this pretense. It has 71% of our students, but despite the fact that 71% of our students are currently participating in this part of education, it is kind of the part that we feel is somehow the most neglected, the European Commission is also pointing out that it is very good at measuring our successes, the quality of our education according to certain parameters, and that is why we have the greatest means at our disposal because it is one of the key objectives and the Europe 2020 strategy itself. It is extremely important to connect education with the labour market and it is precisely the area of vocational education that should be made possible as soon as possible. We are now changing the whole concept of the education system, switching from plans and programs that were more focused on content, focusing on learning outcomes, the way to these learning outcomes, so all what the student needs to know, understand and apply after schooling is actually these curriculas. These learning outcomes in vocational education must be closely linked to the labour market, meaning that employers are satisfied with what they are getting and that when they come out of the education system that they feel simply able to participate immediately from school in the jobs at their disposal which, unfortunately, has not been the case and which tells us in favour of the fact that our professional or our system of vocational education unfortunately does not meet the expectations of neither the students on the one hand nor the society on the other hand nor the employers. I've already said something in the replica, you've emphasized learning based on work, absolutely yes, but I don't know how we're going to spend our studies based on work if we've only imagined competence centers as educational institutions. Educational institutions are the ones where they learn, where they are raised, but learning through work is something completely different. I'm not saying to advocate the complete concept of liberalisation of the education system, but we need to think about which direction we as a state will go further. Whether it will be the complete system of this open society where the market is actually created by this professional education system of ours or we'll go to somewhere in half-half or we'll take responsibility as a state, I don't think even the strategists unfortunately in the strategy of education, science and technology have made it clear that they've made it clear to us it would be much easier for us now but it's something that's waiting for us, if not now for a year, 2, 3, 5, without that we won't know how we're going and then we're in trouble. But let's take a measure of things. We support what this law will create for the development of a national curricula for vocational education, sectoral curricula, professional curricula and curricula of an institution for vocational education, which is actually a prerequisite for the implementation of a strategy in the work on vocational education, and that is what we consider to be good. It's also good that there's a space opening up for regional competence centres, they're now called new technology centres in the existing law, and they're a little bit different, more like some kind of exercise room. What the strategy actually predicts and what is going through the public debate are some participants of the public debate ask why we are now going into another of the strategies. So we no longer imagine them as places where practice, part of practice or exercise is carried out but now we put them in the center as a center of excellence, some new technologies in learning, teaching, etc. means some new technologies in learning, teaching, etc. So we're completely changing that concept, from the centers of new technologies, we're going to the centres of excellence. I don't think that's bad, but that's why we need to see how to satisfy all sides and employers and see which way, how to actually get the best of it. And some shifts are being made in a clearer definition of the quality assurance system that unites and external evaluations of education, but also only the evaluation of education. What we think you should do is, as you have pointed out by some of the public debate participants, that you should first set the wording in alphabetical order. And then secondly, still define some concepts, such as exercises, teaching, and student practice. They're not simply defined so far. I don't know what reason they're alone, the notion of informally and informationally acquired competences, it's absolutely wiped out by law, it's like it doesn't exist. And we know that vocational education, along with higher education, and this part of the lifelong learning of vocational education, these are mostly places where informal and intra-national competences can be acquired. Although these informational ones are actually still in Croatia in some kind of diapers, we have not yet defined or established them. What I don't think you should have complicated, and you're complicated, is that you're introducing a new foundation. So we've got school curricula by now. It's a curicula facility. Which not only contains the plan and programme, but also activities, and schools in the social community connecting, free activities, outside of teaching activities. And they were school curriculas. And those school curricula schools had to make them, along with the annual plan and work programmes, to hand them over to the ministry by 30.9. So, after the start of the school year, when class is formed, parent councils, etc., etc. They must pass all these instances and surrender to the ministries. I don't know why you went in the direction of introducing another document that schools must satisfy, and now you call it the school's curricula and you move the deadline in which it must be adopted, and that's August 30th. I don't understand the difference between school curicula and school curicula. Is that the same document? Because the Law on Education and Education says we have an annual plan and a work programme and a school curricula, which must be handed over by 30.9 each school. Now, are you introducing anything new that school has to do a month ago and what's the difference between these two documents? I don't think I need to go in. I'm saying, if the law's intensities were to draw money, because in 2020, it's close because of the centre of competence, because we started with the Ministry of Tourism, and we moved the most, I don't know, why you were going into some parts, where I think you're going to unnecessarily complicate the system, burden the schools, even the additional administration, and it's not really a clear difference, and it's a nuance between school curricula and school curricula. We have a law on education and education. It's clear that schools are due, I don't know what this is about. I don't know where you got your right, to prescribe a 70-30% ratio... points of mandatory election meetings in the professional curricula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much more, which in this Croatian Parliament, the strategy of science and education and technology has made it very clear, that what is defined and that is the thing to define the national curricula for vocational education. Who's standing in the ministry out there somewhere in the basement like the rest of the documents, collecting dust, hasn't been brought yet, but they've been made. They weren't signed, they didn't come into effect. But I don't know why you took it as a right, and if you think it's smart, in this way, through one law, you might re-educate the national curricula, which is over, the public didn't see it, it wasn't signed. And what if in the national curucurulum the ratios are prescribed differently? I don't think you should have gotten into that. In Article 5, you prescribe that the methodology for the production of sectoral curricula and professional curricula is determined by the ASO, the Professional Education Agency, adult education. I don't know if it's a conflict of interest, if you're giving a methodology for developing professional curriculas and other curricula of the professional education agency, adult education, and then in another article, you're voting, for external evaluation of education, along with the NCVOO, where they're actually going to value something they've set up. I don't know why you appointed the Professional Education Agency, adult education as a factor that should carry out the external evaluation process. It is known who works, it should be done by independent institutions and the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that is actually established to ensure quality and, among other things, to implement external evaluation and education is the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've prescribed that sectoral and professional curricula be brought by the ministry. Now, I'm not going into this sectoral council relationship now, etc. I don't have time for this, now, about the formation of regional centres of competence, I say I support this idea, I really think it's necessary, that it's logical, innovative learning models, the excellence of teachers, mentors, employers, high quality infrastructure, constructive cooperation with social partners, public sectors, economic operators, is what is necessary. However, what is unclear is whether they are now becoming schools, and tomorrow the centres of competence, do they become independent legal persons and who actually establish them? Schools are founded by the founder, and whoever founded them is essentially not founded, you say they're named, appointed by the ministry. So they're not legal people in that case. How we're going to solve that nonsensus, or that legal gap that I think might be defined here. Now, if they're named, and the founder, they're more schools where they're called competence centres, then you're the next logic of that, so they're the founders of the regional self-government unit, which is mostly the founders of high schools, you're kicking out of that story, but financing the centres of competence, you're transferring it to regional self-government units. I just want to point out that the county has weaker financial power than most of the county centers. They're down to the turntable level. When I say these some incomes that go from state level, they go down, except for some concessions, etc. And that's a very, very miserable income I don't know how. It is necessary to find a way that these 85m euros from funds can somehow be distributed to founders or schools themselves to help them, because they will not be able to do so themselves. But I can't see at this point, I'd like you to explain to me how they're going to be able to take that money directly without the Ministry's intermediation. The network of programmes and school institutions brings together the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and no one can disenfranchise it. The network of competence centres cannot be a separate network, because the Law on Education and Education in Article 9 makes it very clear to you that paragraph 2e. says: “The network of schools contains institutions unnamed Centers of Excellence or new competences which are now under your new law becoming centres of competence.” So you can't work on a parallel system where the government that needs to bring in all the networks, and among other things, it says in the Law on Education and Education, Article 9(2), subparagraph (d) I think it is. It also states what institutions are appointed to these centres of competence. So there can't be two networks, one brought by the minister, one by the government. Thank God you gave up your first intensification that the centres of competence have three leaders. It's an unnecessary awakening, so if you want the administration. I see you've given it up through a public debate. You've left room to be one coordinator and more extra employment, but at least you've given up fixing a new entourage. So 20 per county one, 20 times 3, so that's how we'd have as many as 60 new ones on state mangers that we don't really know what they're doing. So, the Law on education and education in primary and secondary education clearly states that a network of school institutions, dormitories and programmes is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Council for Professional Education...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64848	Thank you very much. Yeah, there's more replicas on your exhibit, so you'll have a chance. [[Okay, this is what I'm going to do through the debate.]] Here is the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64849	Dear colleagues at the time when you were at the Ministry of Education then a term began to be used, a new term of curiculum and then on the web pages of curiculum.hr and in other means of social communication all present words of curiculum and curriculum used as adjectives. But they have not yet been recorded in any Croatian dictionary. So I would like to first determine which directory they refer to, which is an emphasis, to describe their meaning, to determine the origin and to see if they can enter the standard Croatian language. I have to say here is what the Council for Croatian Standard Language said in March 2009 and let's not ignore this either you or anyone else. Kurikulum is a cheap Englishman, an unadjusted stranger taken over by ad hoc. It is shown that the word ‘curiculum’ has not been dealt with, that it has not been thought about, and therefore acts superficially and fashionably in public and official consumption. So there's no room for that word. The Latin curricula can be properly downloaded into the Croatian language only as a curicula. I repeat, this is the Council for the Croatian Standard Language Standard in March 2009 and I don't understand why you and yours, so at the time of your government ignored this. Today we have one problem, but here I am suggesting both ministers and associates that we behave according to the standards of Croatian standard language, so there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64850	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64851	I'm always thinking about whether it makes sense for you to always go into one of these same discussions. This term is defined through the Strategy of Science and Education and Technology. Okay. You are dissatisfied with it, and you will be very soon satisfied when the Minister proposes to amend and supplement the Law on Education and Education or the New Law on Education and Education when you come to your own, because it will prescribe that the content of civic education and some of the other issues in question which you and your foreigners from which you come and some structures do not correspond will now be able to be nicely easily thrown out and will not be mandatory. And then you will come upon yourselves, and you will be happy and content, and you will exult, and now bring some of that discontent today which you have expressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64852	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64853	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague, Voter, and I'm on the first hand when you said that the SDP wouldn't support this, and I'm just a little bit distracted. Later I realized that it was more of a political decision than a professional decision. It is clear to me that we have based one of the main things of our support for this government on education and that your support for any law that comes from this sector might in some way give us the right and you want to avoid it. And then I carefully signed all your reasons for not wanting to accept this. Well, because the concepts are made in alphabetical order and some are left out and because the information acquired competences have not yet been established, so they are not made. Well, you don't know if Kurikulaum is a school or a school curricula. Then you referred to Article 5, where you ask about credit points if it's the Minister's decision. Also, the methodology of developing sectoral curricula and then ultimately regional competence centres do not know whether they are established or established by a decision. And at the end of the network of all those centers. So that's something that I believe can be very simple to explain. These are some of the purest things I can say and some of them fall into nomotechnic things if we talk about curiculum, school curricula, etc. So, I don't see any essential reason why someone would be against this law, first of all, why wouldn't someone try to change something if they saw it not going but apriori says we're against and then some of these reasons really can't accept it. Of course, you're still going to go on, you didn't say you didn't say everything, and I'm very interested in what fundamental grudges in this law have in mind that you're against it without being the political ones for the reasons that you said at the outset.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64854	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64855	Comrade Curaj, this is the first reading and the point of the debate here is not to clap with stupid solutions but to try to contribute to making second reading better. I cannot support the fact that the Law on Education and Education, Article 9, which says that in the school network it contains a list of schools named centres of excellence. This brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia, can't centres of excellence in the current Law on Professional Education is what they are now changing is what they are now changing into centres of competence. So far, the centers of new technologies have been written, they've been centres of excellence, and now they're going to be this. The government of the Republic of Croatia is the only one with a network. The Minister of the Wild as much as she wants can't be the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I wish you'd... The government of the Republic of Croatia may also be moving towards reform by at least one step forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, you increase the Council for Professional Education from 17 to 20 members. I have nothing against the Council of Professional Education, but you're looking so much at taking that money from Europe in the short term, you've only increased it by 3 ministers. Minister of Tourism, Labour and Agriculture. Okay, that's three increases from 17 to 20 so far. You're looking at the short term because the first centres of competence go into tourism, the others go to agriculture, but you don't think that there's both health care and electrical engineering and the second sector, not here the law is passed just to create a legal assumption for the money taken, it's legitimate. But then don't get into things and mess up. I'm against the fact that the school is burdened with another document. He wants 30 now. 8th, with an annual plan and program in the school curricula, they're still handing over the school's curricula. I'm against it, I don't think that's necessary. And that's why all of my remarks you realize please benevolently the same as on the board, for two hours we discussed constructively yesterday and I hope that it will contribute to the improvement of the final solution. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64856	Thank you very much. We have to avoid expressions like stupid solutions and so on, so I wish we didn't hear it. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64857	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, you said that this law should not be passed just because we withdraw European funds and I agree with you here, of course European funds should be withdrawn but our first goal must be quality vocational education. On the one hand, we have students who will enroll in professional professions, that we have programs and institutions that these students will teach them to be on the labour market easily and on the other hand that we have entrepreneurs who will cooperate in this system that will get quality students and tomorrow's workers. We see that through and through the National Council there are no representatives of either the HGK or the HUP, I think there was a place for them in that council as well. On the other hand, you mentioned regional competence centres and you welcomed the establishment as I said I did, but it was unclear who founded them, who accredited them, how it would work and whether or not there, and I think it would be necessary to include both local businessmen and craftsmen to participate in the creation and management of regional competence centres because without them, this system does not work. And especially no standards and criteria are defined, which is why we will measure it because it will be Europe that will ask us how we spent the money that results. For me and for us from the HSS, it should be how many students have come out of the system, how many have been employed, how many new crafts have been opened, new businesses and whether the economy's income has increased in the region. Then it would be the real effects of such measures and legal reform of vocational education. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64858	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64859	I agree with you, my colleague, completely. And you've replicated to me, but yes, I don't mind that we pass the law, that we withdraw those funds and our schools cry out for those funds and our society and our education system cry out for them. But I don't see why it was really going into some articles of the law that would further complicate the whole thing especially to the founders to whom the obligation to finance is transferred. We are not explained here how we will manage to deliver these 85m euros to those founders who will be in charge because the money is in the EU, the founders need to finance it, how we will bridge this gap here is what we would like to hear, how we will connect them. Secondly, there is a network of programs and institutions in vocational education that has existed so far. It didn't say anything about who was passing it under the existing law, it was only about who handed it over, proposed sector councils to the founders, now it's gone, now something new is being introduced. That's where the government gets kicked out of the whole story, there's been a pretty unnecessary mess that's going to further complicate things in some parts, perhaps in the best of intentions to make things easier. So the point should be better vocational education, but when you're messing with some laws like this and when solutions are unscheduled, then unfortunately, we often don't get better than we get a little worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64860	Thank you. And the last replica of Mary Pooh's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64861	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Sabina, I would only point out one piece of information that I believe you have wrong, and this is not about the 85 million euros available to us and not only from one fund, but from 130 million euros at our disposal in the European Social Fund and the Regional Development Fund. It also fell into my ear when you started your speech to say that it was quick to make this law. Well, I wouldn't say that it went too fast in the making of this law because we ourselves know how much change we need in education, and the fact that this law is now only changing for the first time is frankly a little weird. So all the knowledge, all the technology, all that goes forward and our law on vocational education is still the same as the first day we brought it in, it wasn't hasty. All this money, all 130 million euros at our disposal, has been available since 2014. I don't know why it wasn't systematic or former ministers who were, but it didn't come into the making of that law to get the funds as soon as possible. So every once in a while, it's said that our absorption of funds isn't fast enough. Here we are now predispositioning to absorb 130m euros from Europe, I see no reason and it absolutely does not speak of any hasty. In my opinion, it's about the ability, the vision and the knowledge of the minister and her team.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64862	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64863	Why didn't we change the law? Because we've created preconditions that you can now talk about the 130m euros. The operational programme competitiveness of cohesion, effective human potential, worked on it, agreed with other ministries, with the Ministry of Tourism, sat down for days, nights to develop a story related to the centres of competence that you are talking about today. Okay, that's why we didn't create... The framework, in order to support us, worked out a plan for the development of vocational education and training in order for the European Commission to give us the green light to grant us money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, that's what we did, we left, we lost the election, we came in second in 2015, two years, what? What of 130 million euros has been withdrawn to this day for 2 years? Nothing. Today we're talking about the law, okay, we're making assumptions about forming a centre of competence. I support it, but don't burden schools with extra bullshit administratively that they have to send some more school curricula extra. Define who the founders of the competence center are. Whether they are legal persons or not legal persons. The school network has to bring you the government, don't mess with the terms, you've thrown out the conditions for getting a network of schools well, okay, but what we're supposed to do now is get involved in this who brings it, enters power, not only in government power, but in the law of lex specialis, the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. The Council of Professional Education, you fix that, is, now we care about tourism, is, now we care about agriculture, these are the greatest indications that we will form competence centers but can't write in one law seriously that in 20 members there are only those 3 ministers, so where is the Minister of Regional Development? We're talking about regional competence centers. Then why didn't you put the Minister of Regional Development? Why didn't you? Because you're working fast and you've only done it because of the centres of competence in tourism and agricultural fields, that's what I'm talking about. And I want this law to be better and I want you to change this thing. 17, 20, define neutrally that the law is sustainable. Deal with the legal status of the competence centre. Do not mess with the founders of the school network, do not burden schools with additional administration and we will support the law. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64864	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be given to the respected Minister of Science and Education, Professor Blaženka Divjak, and you will receive answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, dear and esteemed parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here's an answer to the previous two interventions. I, above all, thank you for constructive suggestions, of course, for those that were constructive. I would also like to thank the MOST Representatives' Club for its support, for recognising vocational education as important. The truth is that we need to bring this reform process into line with other reform processes, and we are aware and grateful for that comment. As far as attitudes are concerned, they are contained only may not be explicitly expressed, given that actually here standards are based on competences, and competences are defined as a set of knowledge, skills, independence and responsibilities. So independence and responsibility in terms of attitudes are included here. Also when we talk about harmonising with the Labour Act in terms of working time, this is not about student work but about practical follow-up and exercise. So in that sense, that's the difference, so practice and practice up to 22 hours. They are also not out of mentors but they have actually remained in this statement as they are and one part about the work of mentors and the role of mentors will also be subject to the amendment of the Law on crafts since they also appear there. And now, of course, it was necessary to read carefully, and now that fellow Voter was supposed to read carefully really well that it does not say anywhere that the centres of competence are a legal person, they are not legal persons. That's clear. They are not legal persons but professional schools are called competence centres and, in this sense, similar to the centres of excellence in science or the reference centres, they are not legal persons. The legal person would be something else, it would be a company, I initially said in my opening statement that it wasn't about that. Unfortunately, you haven't read here very carefully. As you have not carefully read that the difference between the network of centres of competence and networks of schools. The network of schools is a list of institutions and this brings of course the Government, we know that according to the Law on Education and Education, while the network of centres of competence are a set of criteria and guidelines in this sense is a significant difference. Also, yes, some have talked a lot and we've worked really hard. What were we doing? Well, we really pulled out all these documents, compared documents, reviewed documents, and this law certainly isn't something that's fast-tracked or prepared, nor hastily read, nor could we, for example, bring up the documents that you mention and, as is the national curricula for vocational education, is without background. You could have changed the legislator, so you would have brought it, it couldn't have been passed before, and it's not in any dust, but it's going to be passed after it's been established, or passed this law that represents the basis for it. A real big difference between 85m euros and 130m euros should also be seen by both funds. And of course, there's a problem that there's a need to make assumptions that these funds can retire. And one of the assumptions is this legislative assumption. And it's a shame to say that in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, vocational education didn't exactly recognize it, so it remained on the side, so now I'm very glad that we put vocational education first and that this way, through professional education, we will strengthen this Law on Professional Education. As for informal and informative learning, there is no such example in the Law on Science, higher education, since it will, therefore, be specially established through the Regulation on Informal and Informal, the basis of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Also if we're looking, it means why we have 70, 30, it means mandatory election. Well, that's because it was prescribed or provided for in the National Curricula for Professional Education, which, as I said, could not be brought in because there was no legal basis for it. Of course, all of these remarks that you have said if there is any need for further clarification can be read by the curricula of the institution for vocational education is not equal to the school curricula, and in that sense I think there are enough clarifications in written materials. And on all constructive further remarks, I thank you and we will take them into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64866	Thank you. However, we have more replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I am truly happy that we can discuss the beginning of whatever it is called curricular or any other reform. But in any case it is time to finally and that we recognized that in Croatia as well as many European countries and Austria and Germany, especially when we talk about long-term education I would certainly have touched here, we are talking about certain items. Of course it will be a long time and certainly a lot of debates. But working hours for such young people we say can't be longer than 20 hours. But at the same time, we know that these same young people, after working that same time, go to a bar and I don't know from 23 to 24 hours. So we can certainly talk about it, and we can influence it. What you would particularly touch, we in Požega-Slavon County or better said in the town of Pleternica are building a new high school precisely on the subject of vocational education and I would ask you the last memo from the ministry is said to get a pass. We are now a separate department, so the Pozega craft school and other professions, so I would just like to ask that you just give your support to a modern school worth more than 20 million kuna and where we certainly see in the future the development of vocational education in our county. I'd also ask you to work on the school boards. Countys are usually the founders of high schools, but you don't have a school board that wants to do something in fact you can't run anything at that school. We had this example right in our county. So that's one debate for the future, and I'm sure you'll recognize that too so you can develop certain activities in vocational education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64868	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64869	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a thank you, Minister, for giving me the answer to the question: Are the centers of a legal person? No, they're not. So they stay at school with their principal, educator, secretary, etc. Well then, here I would ask during this debate the answer to the question of why the new employment of these coordinators, the additional employment of the persons who, which should do if everything stays the same. Only the school gets with its name some kind of centre of competence. Unfortunately, you haven't answered my question if you intend to give up on additional administrative burdens with the adoption of some school curricula and what is the difference between that school curricula obligation and the school's curricula. It means that you tell me and the public and the schools what they will have to write with this annual plan and programme, along with the school curricula, in this school curricula and send you to the ministry by August 30th. Thirdly, I am sorry that you have not also given me an answer to the question why you are putting the Professional Education Agency in a position to create a methodology for the production of curricula and you are still giving it the authority of the external evaluation that the state has already given to the National Centre for National Evaluation of Education. And you know for yourself that, even now, schools are carrying out external evaluations or self-evaluations and that both NCVVO and JASO and schools have to send the same things twice to the Professional Education and Education Agency, which implements its own, and the National Centre that implements its own. And now, instead of through this law, you sort of solved that cacaphony, where both of us are doing the same thing now we're still undermining some powers. I'm asking you to find a way to solve this problem by the second reading. not further complicated. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64870	Thank you. The Honorable Minister Divjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64871	Thank you. I'll be happy to answer. So it's about the curricula, the vocational education institutes being simplified, actually said the strategic document of the school that is once brought in for a period, so qualifications are inside, levels etc. While the school curricula is an operational document that is brought in every year. So, that says, I'm just repeating now. You can check it yourself. As for new employment, it is necessary to read again, an expanded activity is important. Because the Centre of Competence, apart from doing regular vocational education and training, has many other activities from practice to the meaning of training, so also additional education of teachers, mentors of other schools to cooperation with the economy through means signing new contracts on practice. So there's a whole series of tasks that now has the Centre of Competence and that allows the Centre of Competence to generate revenue on the market. Not profit, of course, but to cover its costs in this way, which is clearly stated in this law. As far as internal and external evaluation is concerned, I think it's an alphabet meaning of the quality assurance system that there is an internal and external quality assurance system. And here we're talking about methodology, and clearly the methodology helps develop agencies, here specifically the Professional Education Agency, if we're just talking about evaluation. And if we're talking about external evaluation, then it's the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education and that's clear. And we must also say that external evaluation in no way means punishment, but it means helping the school to develop, that the sights of which are school strong parties, which are sides that need to be improved and that is help, advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64872	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Divjak, I would like to ask you one question is about vocational education, and I am glad that you mentioned yourself that this is one of your priorities and my question is practical. It is tied to schools in Varazdin and Bjelovar-Belova County. So over the past few years, we have been developing public-private partnerships projects that have also been linked to European funds. And in Oreshkovic's government, we had no success with the amendments and that this was continued. In this government you opted for projects in Varazdin County, but the Bjelovar-Bilogor County remained aside. Now, the only thing I can rule out from the circumstances of what changed in relation to Oreshkovic's government is that now the HNS is in position and Cacic, who is the mayor there and that you decided to support the Varazdin County, but I don't understand why you punished the children in Bjelovar-Belogorian County. I am glad that you are here, that I can ask you this, because the fact is that the projects were in the same level of preparation and that we have in some way tried to support them before, and in the budget with a proposal both in 2016 and 2017, especially now in 2018. But by some miracle, only projects in Varazdin County surfaced. So I wonder if you estimate that it is more important to invest in vocational education in Varazdin County than to say in Bjelovarska-Belogorska because it is a certain number of vocational schools if you judge why. Not only is it from that county of Štromar, or Radimir Cacic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64874	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64875	I thank you for this question even though I don't understand how you draw these arguments and logic. It's a bit of an unusual thing to say. I am, of course, not the Minister of the Varazdin County, but I am the Minister of Science and Education of the Republic of Croatia and you can see it nicely in this proposal and in an explanation when I spoke about how important it is that regional centres of competence develop evenly, that each county should receive at least one centre of competence and thus recognise its strategic orientations. As to the meaning of the JPY, look, there is certainly no discrimination, no tendency to allow someone else something that is not. Of course, everything must be based on valid documentation, signed agreements and also realized means that must thus be secured in the state budget so that all specificities related to these issues can be learned by talking to us and we will send you a written reply, and here I must say that it is professional education, not the construction of sports halls that were actually the subject of this agreement that you mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64876	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. She's a respected voter's representative. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64877	In Article 14, it is my right as advocates to know the truth. I would ask you to warn the minister that she is telling the truth here and is not providing incorrect information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64878	You can't abuse the Rules of Procedure like that because no one can judge whether someone here is telling the truth or not. Therefore, I ask you nicely [[Intruder Voter: Here I will now explain to you.]] Article 14 has absolutely nothing to do with it. [[/Intruder Voter: I can, eclatively clear as day. I'm sorry, it's eclative.]] I beg you, I warn you. [[/Vlasovac: So the minister declares that the curriculum of the institution is brought for a long time Article 5.12.]] My colleagues, I warn you, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I warn you by taking away words I take away the word of my colleague, the Voicer. [[Indica Glasovac: The Curiculum of the Institute for Professional Education brings an institution no later than 31 August of the current year for the next school year.]] I took your word. [[Intruder Voter: The First False. Second, the minister in response to the representative says.]] What do you want to cause an incident? No, you're not. [[No, let me say it.]] I told you clearly I made it clear to you first that this does not apply to Article 14. [[Adversity Voter: Warn here government members not to give lies, not to deceive MPs knowingly.]] So it's like the first thing No, there's nothing to explain. [[Intruder Voter: And let me explain.]] No, there's no such thing as forgiveness in the Rules of Procedure. [[And my right to the truth has been violated.]] Excuse me, read your Rules of Procedure and you have [[Intruder Voter: Yes, my right to the truth has been violated.]] I ask you to sit down and stop talking. [[Intruder Voter: And look, I beg you now to warn only the members of the Government not to present here the untruths that are verifiable in the laws they defend.]] I took your word. Please sit down. ... I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go, colleague Maras. You're also the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Voter: I ask the Minister to behave with honor.]] What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64880	Try to calm down the tensions a little bit, because there's no point here being forced. What article? Well, are you? Zekanovic was waving. [[Let's not throw it away slowly. What article was injured?]] He'd run a session, do everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64881	Comrade Maras, what article is injured, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64882	I'm asking you first to calm down a little tension, because we're still here to discuss a very important matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64883	You can't discuss this with me, but please, what article is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64884	Do you respect my request to calm the tensions?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64885	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64886	Article 232 has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64888	Here, can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64889	Of course, how did he get hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64890	Thank you very much. So the minister got away from the subject, given that she told me, not the answer to my question, but she brought my right to question at all. Well, it's normal for me to question, when we have the same thing in Varazdin and Bjelovar County. You're just setting yourself up. You've set yourself up as ministers to support projects only in the county, so Štromar and Cacic, and Bjelovarska bilogora County, nothing. And they have connections, because in those halls they educate people in vocational education. It's very connected to what you're talking about here. Here, thank you very much, please remind the Minister, is not moving away from the topic in a way that avoids giving an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64891	So, fellow Mars, you're actually away from the subject because you started talking about building in one way or another, and we're talking about vocational education now. So it has nothing to do with each other. But, well, I let you say yours, you said yours, you abused the Rules of Procedure, you abused the Rules of Procedure, but let it be for you this time. The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64892	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here, I must commend you, for successfully continuing what Minister Barisic was doing, so it means a program of development of vocational schools, so that the European money that came at the time of Minister Barisic, that you will now set out in one real way further. However, I still have to say a little bit about the curicula here. Education and education at school is achieved on the basis of national curricula, so you say, otherwise there should be curricula of curricula and curricula, and from there comes the national framework curricula, the national curricula for vocational education, the sectoral curricula and the professional curricula. I hope someone at the Ministry of Education understands this. Here, fellow Voter, you can say through some replica later, does she understand that? I worked at school, 12 years in vocational schools, and I'd like to get back to what's old and that's the plan and the program. Anyone who worked in high school, he knows that teaching is run according to plan and program, and having these seven, eight curiculas, I think, really doesn't make sense. With the same illogicality being highlighted here, which is that we're bringing here now, we're talking about the Law on Professional Education, we're talking about a professional curricula, but we don't have a higher curricula. Can we bring a lower-order curricula without this higher order? I don't think we can. If we've already decided to go into curricula, which I don't think is necessary, but to complete the plans and programmes, but here's my colleague Glasovac and Minister Jovanovic came up with something new to do, so they thought the curricula, we're all spinning around today. Then let's go in line, then let's get that top ranking, and then we'll bring these down, so I think that's one real order. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64893	Thank you very much. We will now move to another club representative, which is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Minister, fellow MPs. I'll probably have to say some things that have already been said and repeated, but the minister had a very extensive and detailed explanation of the law itself, so here, I apologize in advance, if I'm going to repeat myself a little bit. So, as we know and as we have repeatedly said here, the system of vocational education is crucial to the development of human potentials as a prerequisite for achieving economic war, quality employment and social goals. As is said, this system is extremely important, perhaps most important in our education system, since 71%, as the high school population has already said, goes right to vocational schools, which clearly gives rise to the importance of this area for the education system, but also economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. This... It is particularly visible in the most developed countries of Europe, this shows the example of both Austria and Germany and Switzerland, which have a low rate of youth unemployment, as it time directed them to sectors that had the potential for new jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something a colleague of Sladolev was talking about. These countries, examples of consistency, economies with the labour market. It is primarily the consequences of a centuries-old tradition of practical education, which implies that about 70% of teaching takes place in a real working environment and only 30% within educational institutions. Now, what's the situation with us? Unfortunately, when it comes to the education system, it is often said to be terriblely catastrophic, some analyses and data of some tests are taken parallelly, while some are neglected, etc. If we look at the analysis, let's say... in 2015 of our vocational education, there are some segments that are praised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it boasts that Croatia has the lowest share of early leaving vocational, secondary education in Europe, boasts support services, means psychologists, educators, where each... At least one, mostly both. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And a system of only evaluation and external evaluation. So these are the things that Europe recognized as high quality in our system of vocational education, so it certainly needs to be taken into account and not go down necessarily or change something that works well. On the long side, what is the problem and what has been highlighted by the analysis and what has already been said in this debate, and this is a matter of connection with the labour market, and that is the main purpose of these amendments and the addition of the law. What I would like to point out is that we should not start here since yesterday, as the whole process of modernising reform, vocational education began with the coming up of the strategy for the development of the professional education system in the Republic of Croatia in 2008, as stated in this proposal of the law. So it's a process that's been going on since 2006. the percentage building of capacities, resources, strategies and policies in line with the Copenhagen EU process's recommendations. After a strategy for developing the system of vocational education, 2009 and the Law on Professional Education were adopted. Now, when we talk about strategies and laws, we would only legally explain two things, so when it's said that the law is not in line with the strategy, and that's what some of our prominent scientists and academics have said several times, and people from the academy, especially those who took part in making some strategies. I would only point out that, that the unequivocal law is above the strategy. There's no dilemma. If someone does not believe it can look at the Strategic Planning System Act that we voted on a few days ago, which clearly states that sectoral strategies must be envisaged by a special law. Another thing, when it's mentioned that this law is not in accordance with some other law. I would stress that for vocational education this law is a lex specialis. So, in that case, this law applies in case of discrepancies with someone else, and I think it's important to highlight it. Now, to return, to return to the process itself, i.e. the process that lasted, means those documents were set up strategically with the legal framework for the development of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia. It means almost 10 years ago and in line with the policies and processes of developing vocational education at EU level. As we have said, the key aspect is to acquire the competence of the necessary labour market with the aim of professional recognition of qualifications. That's what matters. It means that exactly the most important thing the EU sees and when it directs processes is that someone who has completed a certain degree of education in one country can go to work in another. And that is what the EU's primary competence is to regulate through 4 freedoms of movement in the European common market. Under the Law on Professional Education, a whole series of measures are being taken to modernise and strengthen the quality of vocational education and training in the Republic of Croatia. ... the interlinking of vocational education with labour market needs, the sectoral councils are already mentioned with the development and introduction of new tools, which introduce learning outcomes into our education system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A quality assurance system has been improved and only the evaluation of the institution for vocational education has been introduced, what has already been mentioned and strongly encouraged the development of local partnerships in institutions for vocational education and local stakeholders such as local and regional units, i.e. regional self-government. The Professional Education Act also ensured the involvement of all stakeholders within the Council on Professional Education and Sectoral Councils. All that can be included of course, you can never include absolutely anything to, since the system would be too bulky but of course that some stakeholders like those who represent businessmen are very important in that regard. This law, as already stated, allows for the development of a national curricula for vocational education, sectoral curricula, professional curricula and curricula of an institution for vocational education. What my colleague Glasovac pointed out is that through the introduction of the curricula into our system of outcomes and learning they replaced the contents. I think it's something that should be commented on anyway. So, of course, the fact is that learning outcomes are important and that they represent one step in terms of adapting and acquiring real competences and adapting to the labour market, but the fact is that it is difficult, that an educational process without content can be difficult to implement. So if you're completely out of content and all you're left with are outcomes and learning, you're losing that kind of knowledge minimum, the basics of knowledge that someone has to gain. And in order to do something and apply something and implement something you need to have first some knowledge, you need to know some facts. Although now it's quite popular to throw it out, and it all comes down to some kind of game and something like that. So, in practice, if you throw out the full content then you have two options, or you're going to burden the system with a lot, with a lot of learning outcomes, and you're going to have 100 and some learning outcomes, which in practice is inconclusive, or you're going to have fewer learning outcomes, very generically set through which you can really put things into the very educational process that maybe it shouldn't be where you might have left too much freedom and the whole thing would be very undefined, so there could be a lot of things, some basic knowledge relatable. As far as I'm concerned, most of the time, I'm not going to go too far into the details of the curicula. What I would point out, however, is the mention of the Croatian qualification framework. So that is where the qualification framework was mentioned several times, and it is said that professional curricula will define the processes and conditions of acquisition of qualifications at levels 2 to 5 of the Croatian qualification framework. So what's important and what's seen in this debate is that the qualification framework and the vocational education are very connected, and that we practically have to view these laws as pooled vessels. What I would point out again, however, is that the Croatian qualification framework, i.e. the general European qualification framework, is something that is optional for Member States. So this is legally justified by the recommendation of the EU Council of Ministers and the Member States have had the autonomy to implement it in the way they consider necessary. Croatia has specifically passed the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, we have defined ourselves as a law and now we have, which is what, I think, my colleague Zekanovic mentioned, we now have several laws that regulate the same matter and therefore we have to do this, through these changes and supplement them as much as possible. But I stress, what is important is that the qualification framework is something that is not binding because the EU does not have the authority to regulate and impose equalisation of the education systems of the Member States but actually gives through this one tool that states can use to make some interests more recognizable so that their students, students, those who finish primary, secondary and higher education, can go further and work in other EU Member States. Also, there's been a lot of talk about centres of competence. As mentioned by the core features of the centre are innovative teaching methods and innovative learning models. Learning based on the work that we now have in one article is defined on our legal system for more effective inclusion of labour market participants, respecting the needs of students with difficulties and other vulnerable groups, enabling vertical passivity to continue education, teacher excellence, high-quality infrastructure, constructive and creative co-operation with social partners, the public sector, economic operators and high schools. So here, what I would particularly like to stress is the important collaboration with the HOK and the HGK as very important stakeholders in our economic system. I know that they were involved in the working group for the drafting of this law and I hope that they will continue to be involved in the system means the adoption of the law itself and its subsequent implementation. Furthermore, as has already been said, a way of adopting a network of centres is defined as well as procedures for the appointment of an institution for vocational education... the way in which the appointment is re-scheduled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's important is that no legal changes come as the minister has already said, the school is an institution and it becomes the centre of competence. In this respect, no new legal form shall be established. And there's a difference between the centres of excellence that were a little more complex, one consortium of more institutions, so these things aren't exactly the same. Mostly I will also say that the goal is for each county to get at least one centre of competence related to vocational education, to connect economic operators, lifelong education, as well as professional studies in schools. What is special and why it is important for this law to be passed is to enable the withdrawal of 130m euros from the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund. However, what he would point out here and what may not have been mentioned so much is that at all, European funds could be obtained in particular from the European Regional Development Fund in most cases, you need to get the clarity of the note from JASPERS as competent institutions. To get a clearance note you must show long-term sustainability of the entire system. What is important to stress is that it is not enough to just withdraw money from funds but to ensure through a complete institutional legal system long-term functioning through the action of the founder primarily, to ensure the long-term sustainability of these centres of competence, their further not only existence but further progress, modernisation of new infrastructures, etc. Further, as already said, stronger learning based on work, it is defined as acquiring knowledge and skills by participating in activities in the working environment that are present in three forms in professional curricula as combined programs or learning at school with periods with employers and integrated into the vocational education and training programme. So I am very pleased and we as a club support that learning is based on the work mentioned in one legal article and that this legal article will be the basis for further development of the system of work and the integration of centres of competence and vocational schools with the labour market. And finally, as we pass through the law, I would also mention that the establishment of a better quality assurance system is also an important thing. I say, this is the part where Croatia has already received some positive criticism or positive comments from the EU agency, so I hope and believe that it will continue in this direction. Finally, the HDZ Club supports this law, which would particularly highlight the importance of sustainability and the establishment of a centre of competence for their sustainability, the role of being linked to business entities and their associations, means including both their implementation and the harmonisation of the laws and systems of vocational education itself with the regulation of other regulations, which means what is important and would give a suggestion, something similar to that of the Committee on Law, that there are still certain legal discrepancies. Some of the terms are defined by this law, some of them are, it is seen through comments on public hearings called for other laws, and it is not entirely consistent, so it would be good to do that part legally, but that part I think has already been prepared by the Committee on Legislatives, so they will send you and I think that's what this is about. Finally, this law is positive, I think most of us agree here, it is important that vocational education goes one step forward and, in that sense, the HDZ Club supports this law with the necessary progress of course to another reading, such as standard procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64895	Thank you very much. The Republic was owned by a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64896	Dear colleague Sokol, I find it very interesting what you said, this observation by the HGK, I didn't know, about the centres of competence to actually involve private companies in the very implementation of them, I think it would be good because I see, after European money is spent here, that there will be only a problem with the sustainability of that. I have to say here, I speak also as an educational worker who has worked in these institutions for 11 years, I, no matter how I read these remarks about how it should work, don't see how it can be implemented in the system itself without later being a burden for the founder, these are in this case county and here's a question for you. Give me your comment just about that, the provision that the network of centres of competence is brought by the Minister of Education is not proportionate to the fact that the state pedagogical standard is determined by the Parliament, and the network of primary and secondary schools and dormitories is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The participation of the Minister of Finance, Labour, entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and regional development is essential, not just the Minister of Education. So it's something that's very complex if we're already going to implement it, I think, given that the government is already in charge somewhere, and somewhere is the Education Ministry, somewhere in the Parliament, that there should be a few more resolution ministries involved in order to get the best solution. And I will repeat one skeptic or concern, once the European money is spent on which these centres will be implemented, whose burden it will be on me as a long-standing educator I do not see how competence centres can be implemented in existing educational institutions or vocational schools. I don't want to be a bird of the ominous, but I think this is at the beginning as well as centres of excellence condemned to some kind of failure, I would dare say but let's try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64897	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Representative Falcone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64898	Thank you very much. As far as the network is concerned, this system may be new but it allows for one flexibility that may sometimes be in our system and we need it, that it does not have to go through the whole complicated procedure through the government, etc. On the other hand, you have a Council for Professional Education which gives an opinion when you bring a network and determine centres so that some ministries, at least some of whose representatives are inside, can be involved. Another thing about economic operators, I think that this law gives a legal basis that can be read and interpreted in such a way that they can be very actively involved in the whole thing but certainly in the light of further procedure because we are now only in the first reading, we hear the opinion of the HGK as they think about it, so they can tell us more from their perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64899	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64900	Well, here's my colleague Sokol, I'm just going to briefly refer to that part of your exposure where you talked about the centres of competence, obviously it's an interesting topic, an interesting part of this law, and I'm looking forward to discussing it and it's important to communicate and discuss it, and it's important to base it all together on the right basis. That part you were talking about about the role of the county, the role of the founder, in terms of obligations and responsibilities for insurance, financial, material, human resources. And that's OK. So the county are founders of vocational schools somewhere and cities. And it's important, in that whole story, that their role and position be regulated by law. Now, that's connected to the council on vocational education. And even with yours, and then a previous debate by some colleagues about the composition of members. So now I look at the minister with one eye, it would be good, so I ask you what you think about it, that, in the membership of members of the council for vocational education, certainly, I don't see here, therefore, the envisaged representatives of founders, counties and cities. Because they're being made a big commitment and I think it's a good thing, because they're the founders of vocational schools. But especially when it comes to financial, material, human, etc. They should be included in the council for vocational education, so here I am, interested in your opinion on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64901	The answer will be to the esteemed representative Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64902	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedekovic, I agree. I think that we talk very often about the local and regional self-government unit and very often want to, and also transfer to them some responsibilities, but without ensuring the whole system, including financial resources, to enable it. And I think it's important that we think long-term, how we let them do their job, which they're supposed to do with this law. And in that sense, as far as the council is concerned, I think it's certainly good for them to be involved. As for ministry representatives, perhaps the Ministry of Regional Development, as one of the intermediate bodies, but here it is, it is purely some ideas that can be discussed, but I am glad that this debate is constructive and I hope that also local and regional self-government representatives will be actively involved in it and in this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64903	Thank you. The next club representative of the HNS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Maria Puh. ... You can no longer speak to the end of this point. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So read the Rules of Procedure, I've already advised you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, fellow Puh. ... Here you go, fellow Puh. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64904	Thank you, Vice President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, I have to express a little dissatisfaction, talk about such an important topic, talk about a subject that affects 71% of high school students, and I'd say there's a little of us today and we're pretty little involved in the debate. It is definitely one debate that requires a much wider picture, a lot of your opinions and perhaps a little criticism for our colleagues, which failed to wait for this hour, but here I hope that our constructive debate that we are having today will be sufficient for the minister and her team to prepare a quality law for a second reading. I've watched enough, the law has prepared itself, but now that the whole law is really very detailed, and it's out of the picture by both the minister and your colleagues, I'd like to share a personal opinion with you and highlight some things. I recently had a chance to attend almost every vocational school in my county. It's about the county that's first or second, now I'm not 100% sure about the data by investing in education. So it's about a county that's really a very large part of its assets that invests in education and outside of those mandatory funds for decentralised functions. Our schools are really well equipped, but when we entered some vocational schools, when teachers and directors showed us their study cabinets for practical teaching. I have to tell you, I was very, very, very, very surprised at one school. Students also learn in their classroom for practical training, they have a machine, which I think is out there in '70. I've been out of date. So, to us definitely, this possibility given by this law, that a billion kuna be invested in schools, that a billion kuna bet directly on our children, is not something that's hasty, is not something to wait for. That should have been done yesterday, if not a long time ago. We all know how much technology is going on, how much new knowledge there is every day. It is impossible and it is inconclusive that our schools remain at the same facilities with machines, with aids that children need to learn from their crafts, which they learn. Professional education is really an education that we definitely need to focus on, because it is 71% of our high school students. These are unfortunately, as I have already mentioned in the replicas the first amendments to the law. The law has now been passed, from this perspective looking back in the days and I'm surprised that we haven't been more systematic, more thorough and that we haven't put more attention into developing education and changing education. I definitely welcome the co-operation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which wants to be achieved with the centres of competence. I must say that my mayor was very excited, too, when he saw the bill, because we already have the whole project in preparation for our centre of competence, and for a long time we have waited to open the funds, so that we can apply to them and that we can provide our students with the most modern and modern education. Now I might look back on the law a little bit, why I think he's extremely good. So there are clear goals, which are determined that this law must be achieved. This is the development of a national curricula for vocational education, the establishment of regional centres of competence, the introduction of dual education, i.e. strengthening the learning based on the practice of establishing a better quality assurance system and creating a pedagogical mentor education in employers. The goals of this law by me are the thesis that I think is necessary for us to become everyday and to start thinking more often about it, which is that we begin to really create schools for life and not schools for grades. We must prepare our students for what awaits them tomorrow when they come to the labour market and not that when they come to the labour market they must again and start to learn all of their competences that they should actually be prepared for. I don't think there's any more time to wait for a day and we have to do this debate together and get ready for another reading and we need to move on as soon as possible and create a better future for our children and therefore for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64905	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I ask you to respect my request because it is very important that the procedure and the Rules of Procedure in this House be respected. And I beg you now, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 237. And now I'm going to try to explain why. Because you reached out to a colleague named Sabina the Voice for something that doesn't exist. I'm taking away your word doesn't exist. So you're supposed to give a word-absorbing warning. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64907	.../Intruder President: I gave two warnings and the other one was taking away words./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64908	No, no, no, so you just said, I tell you what you said. You said I'm taking your word. It doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. I'm begging you, you should have said a reminder by taking away your words. And here's the broken Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to pull back so your colleague can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64909	Comrade Maras, I advise you if you think the Rules of Procedure have been broken to address the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. Here, you can complain, you're wrong, you're wrong, but you... No, obviously you didn't hear correctly, check the stenogram, check the stenogram, no worries, I certainly know the Rules of Procedure very well, and I know what I'm saying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Check the stenogram, you'll see that you're wrong. But if you think you're right, you should contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, please. Unfortunately, you can't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64910	Please take a 10 minute break on behalf of the SDP club to talk about the way and conditions in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64911	Okay, sure, sure. I'll see you at 9:00. ... See you. We can't break the Rules of Procedure. I'll see you at 9:00. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[It's 20.50 hours.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.00 HOURS]] Here's my esteemed colleague and colleague, the break is over, so I'm giving my word to the esteemed representative of the Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here in the Croatian Parliament there are rules that we are guided by, there are documents that regulate conduct, conduct, which is allowed, which is not allowed, and yours is absolutely right in the sense that you think someone has played or hurt the Rules of Procedure to say the warning, then take away the word and it is not disputed. However, there is a great obligation and responsibility on us in this Croatian Parliament, which is the adoption of the law. The law that will have an impact on a large part of the system tomorrow, specifically when we talk about some laws concerning the education system, then I will dare say that these are laws that concern absolutely every family in the Republic, each of us is either a parent or a grandfather or a sister or a brother and we are all extremely sensitive to children. Now, in order for us to pass laws, we in this Croatian Assembly must somehow achieve communication not only with ourselves, but also with the representatives of the Government. And the government's representatives come to the Parliament and they defend these laws and give us information and answers to questions so that we can make as good a decision as possible on how to put ourselves on the issue of a single law, means whether to vote for it, to be abstention or to be against it. And somehow it would be a minimum of some kind of decency and expectations in this honorable House when government representatives also come to be guided by some kind of truth and to representatives if possible, if we can run this postulate we provide accurate information and that we present the laws in the way it writes. Today we have witnessed once not just such a case, I will give two concrete examples. I quote the minister to you in her address to MPs' enquiries, she said she did not introduce a new document and a commitment to schools to bring a new curricula to the school, but rather that it was a document that would be more permanent and, in Article 5, for example, paragraph 12 specifically states that the curricula of the institution for vocational education was brought by the institution no later than 30 August of the current year for the next school year, meaning every year that it would be eclactically that, contrary to what it says in the law, it was false or told a lie. Either the government's representatives don't read the laws that represent or knowingly distort the facts here. In the second case, the same quote of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education will not be implemented together with the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, but will only create some kind of methodology. Wrongly or wrongly in the law of Article 8 the Proposer should know how to read his law before it comes to the Assembly, in paragraph 2. eclatively, it states: “The external evaluation of the institutions for vocational education is carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in cooperation with the Agency” These are only two examples of how sometimes the right picture is not obtained or trying to convince us of something that is not so good, this is also the law that is in the first reading, this is the law that will probably get the support of all clubs at the end because it is extremely important for us all to participate in the process of modernising and improving the system of vocational education, as well as to open the way of the Republic of Croatia to take all the funds available to us from the EU funds but what we need to use today's session is to listen to all criticism, well-meaning, not well-meaning, all suggestions and to try to make a second reading as much better quality. By lying and twisting facts, we're not on the right track. If we've made a mistake somewhere, then it's okay to admit that we've made a mistake, correct a mistake to make the law better. If I really offended someone today, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64914	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Puh, you mentioned in your debate the importance of vocational education and what we adopted as a strategy in 2014 and on this basis we have been working on some EU fund plans. During the debate before you mentioned a vision of the team currently working at the Ministry of Science, this vision is good if the one we were planning was still in 2014 or on which we planned from EU funds and the withdrawal of these funds or programmes that will help to make vocational education more quality but we must all agree together that we are not satisfied with the speed it is being developed, I will not say that the current minister is responsible for this because she came a few months ago when you set up the coalition, but we must agree that we are not satisfied with how it is going now. Two years are almost lost and should do everything to make up for this time period or to succeed in achieving all these plans that we have planned and in operational programmes that are planned and confirmed by the European Commission, which is even more important in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64916	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64917	Comrade Maras, I am pleased to hear from you that the vision is good, that means that we are on a good track and that you will probably support the law yourself which I welcome, and what you're saying is that you're not satisfied with the speed, that's what I pointed out. I am also not satisfied with the speed, unfortunately for the past two years I can say that they have almost been thrown into the wind and that the more is the minister and the whole of her team who has gathered around has earned extra praise. Because they've been in their positions for six months and in six months, here we have today on our desk and we're discussing the first of the law packages that are still waiting for us as far as education itself is concerned. It took a long time to start a reform of education, and it took a long time to move in that direction, but it started. HNS is the one who advocated education, HNS is the one who eventually entered the coalition solely because of education, and it has been six months. The first targets have already been achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64918	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64919	Thank you. Your Honor, I have first and foremost given up an individual debate. What I still have to say is, I took this opportunity to replicate. You mentioned immediately at the beginning of examples from your county related to the practical debate cabinets and that, one of the important reasons why this should go as soon as possible to ensure quality education is precisely to take advantage of this potential of billions of kunas to educate our students on modern machines, to modernise precisely the practical teaching cabinets, or through these regional competence centres to gain all the experience and knowledge of what was done 50 or 30 years ago, but what is done today, in order to be new and new interests that would allow them to be introduced. And that's what I think one of the most important reasons not to say just for that. Of course. We don't have time to waste. We've lost too much time. Our kids don't see the attractiveness of vocational education, and that's enough... I'm on my own to get to work as soon as possible, especially if someone's offering you a billion kunas to modernise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what does that mean? It is these centres of competence that will get a chance to modernise. It doesn't matter if it's at the institution level, whether it's a statement, whether it's a founding, etc. They will get the opportunity to modernize their study cabinets, equipment, upgrades, expand with everything needed in the modern world to produce a new workforce that will be known to find their job on the labour market and first of all work within the shortest time with exceptional quality skills that market... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64920	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64921	So I thank my colleague Curai. Here you are again touching the thesis I've been repeating all day and I find important. And what I might want to add and note now, and maybe I haven't been able to mention before. When it started to talk about going to an amendment to the Law on Professional Education the first thing after that news I received was the invitation of my mayor, meaning my mayor who really cares about education and care about our children and who let's say in some way actively involved and was and in some way co-operation although we are from different political options because he recognizes the importance of education. In our county I will mention once again, a large part of the original resources second or first I am not 100% sure I cannot claim that we are safe by the number of original funds that are further invested in education. The Centre of Competence Project has been built on us for a very long time, and we've been waiting very long for the funds that are now at our disposal. And of course the first move of the mayor when he saw that we were going in to call me and to give the joint forces, regardless of the political colors that we belong to, to enable our children in our county the best possible education, to provide education that is modern, to enable education that is in line with the moments in which we live and which is directed towards the future. And I think that's the way, and I think that's the way it has to be done not only in my county, but it has to be done throughout Croatia. We need to be unique, we need to be together when it comes to the future and when it comes to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64922	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Puh, you spoke about the importance of education and how much it depends on the relationship of the county to this important segment for all of our children for the simple reason that 70% of children go to vocational schools and really need to be provided with as many better conditions as possible. I come from the County of Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and that's why I answered the word because I don't think there are any counties in Croatia, or even any region in which the budget is generally so isolated for education. Thus, it is an example that money is always at the beginning and at the end, but they are still more important people. Therefore, this Law on vocational education stems from the strategy of education, science and technology, from the Development of Professional Education Programme. And what is particularly important is what I would especially like to thank Minister Divjak for, and that is to comply with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework where the Zagreb University is as usual as it sues students because they express their opinion and want to repeal some of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework for completely insane reasons, and these reasons would just stop the development of children who end up among other things from vocational school. Therefore, this law has good intentions, and there are some solutions that are not good. That is why I hope that the minister and her associates will respect the remarks that came in this debate between the two readings, so that we finally get a law that will really be such as to help our students, but also the economy of Croatia as a whole. Because what I believe we all agree is that our children should go out of school with knowledge of life and work, not to be at the Employment Service or that they simply don't know what they learned at school or employers can't use what they didn't learn during their education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64924	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64925	Yeah, they're important people. But it's even more important to cooperate. For progress is definitely more important cooperation between all, because as we say in Zagorje, two heads are smarter than one. So if we work together on this law and other education laws, we'll have a better education for our children. We'll find a better way to prepare our children for the labour market. Right now, in this law, I see an ideal opportunity for our children to do so. I repeat again, one billion kuna, it's not small money, it's the money they've been waiting for since 2014. And I agree that we should first set up some predispositions to get to this law. But still too much time has passed from 2014 to today, that this law has not already been passed and that it has not been allowed before to be used for our schools and our children. And your last line, it's mine, let's say my favorite sentence and my light motive, we need a school for life, not a school for grades.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64926	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate and a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64927	Thank you very much, colleague Reiner, vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here he is at the end of this debate, please? No, no, it's not that, but I can see that the Bucharian is mopping like she can't... [[/Intruder Reiner: There's nothing you can do, go ahead.]] Just pick up the phone for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So feel free to answer it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, here, thank you very much for your words. And what's for sure here is clear that it's about one important subject. It's good to have a good discussion. It would be great if we in the Parliament reached agreement on this law, because there are not too many nor, as in some cases in education, to interfere with ideology, to have certain things that are important to some, so they are bothered by certain educational processes, this is about the clean integration of the economy and education, i.e., vocational education. And Croatia is in a rather difficult position. We must be aware that our people are unfortunately leaving and that many of our craftsmen and businesses and entrepreneurs cannot find quality workers, that we have neglected that part very much. That's what you can see when I go around in schools. I was also very often a minister visiting vocational schools and then you see a lot to be invested in. And that's why I'm sorry, for example, that the Ministry of Science and Education's budget is no longer being invested and that it's not recognized as something that's very important, which is not invested in vocational education, because in the budget itself, it shows that other than the project that we have with Switzerland and some petty money for the curriculum, related to vocational education and artistic professions, it's a few hundred thousand kunas. So there's nothing serious going on here. And investment in one school, mammal's vocational school, there's almost nothing. I said, and I hope that practice and the future will disprove me, that I am sorry that some of the projects that were launched during the government of Zorna Milanovic related to public private partnership have not been continued and completed. We now see that something is trying in Varazdinska and Koprivnica Crossing County, I hope that it will continue in Bjelovarska, as well as with some vocational and technical schools. So let's forget about me, I'd say, the political circumstances, that is, that is, to relate to the continuity and projects that certain governments have done and ultimately, education is everything and ends up at the quality of our children's education. I agree with the need to adapt vocational education more to the market. So we don't have at all, I'd say, meeting the need, what the market needs. The professions change, too, there are very many schools that qualify children for some occupations, which may not be so much needed anymore, and some that are needed are not taking place at all, and there is basically a lot of work to do. As far as the qualifications are concerned, I remember that we have had a lot of problems here both with the Chamber of Commerce and with the evaluation of children at the end of their education, because this system, for me, needs to be more dependent on the ministry and on the ministries, perhaps sciences and economies, i.e. entrepreneurship and crafts. Because when it's missed an organization that works in a way that's sometimes not exactly professional for me in that part. We saw this when the commissions were drawn up that last year, when we did it in 2015, that it was very difficult to do the job, i.e., that in previous years in some cases it was not done in the most qualitative way. So we adopted the 2014 strategy. We had a certain vision, and that's the vision Mrs. Pooh was talking about here, which should end. Which, unfortunately, was interrupted during ministers, as a colleague from Rijeka, Shuster, colleagues of Shuster, and especially colleagues of Baresic, who had his specific vision, probably unique in the education system. So he was... What is said is very rarely found someone who had a similar view of education throughout our country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we hope, with the arrival of Minister Divjak, that what we had in mind and purpose to do about vocational education will be done in 2014. Go on. And we will give support there, because it is not related, I said with no topics, especially, with the integration of the economy, the quality adjustment of educational vocational, vocational education and ultimately benefits for our children and for our entrepreneurs who necessarily need qualified people, who are getting less and less, because unfortunately they go several hundred miles outside of Croatia, for multiple more salaries and then there is very difficult especially after the recession which has put the building on one hold, and now when people are looking for people, they are looking for workers, unfortunately there are very, very little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64928	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64929	Thank you very much. You surprised me because my colleague Zekanovic first called. Now can I just say that it offends the Rules of Procedure on a massive scale? [[Intruder Reiner: Unfortunately, he has no right to the Rules of Procedure and I am equal to all.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Do not follow the session, so you will see, he was not here when he was called, unfortunately.]] Comrade Maras, I have come to the attention that Minister Divjak has also signed up to say something in the final line, and then through the replica, I ask you this question since it is not clearly related to me, and it is a very important topic, these are regional centres of competence. [[No, go ahead, go ahead.]] So, it is envisaged in about one county on the basis of talks, agreements, that I do not understand exactly how this will be, in which way it will be resolved, and I find it extremely important for the future of vocational education and integration of secondary schools, universities and economies because it is actually the right way for professional education in Croatia to be at the level that the Croatian economy needs. And I would take this opportunity once again to point out that bureaucracy is bad but I hope thanks to the co-operation of Minister Divjak and Minister Butkovic, the problem has been solved, so there is a maritime school in Rijeka that should certainly be the center of excellence, which has its ship since '73. And then by the move of some bureaucrat in the ministry, not the minister decided that this ship could not actually be there anymore, because the captain of the ship that retired cannot get a replacement even though it does not increase the cost. So these are small examples that are already slowing down the possibility that a really center that is the center of excellence is doing even better and on these small things then the image of the entire ministry falls.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64930	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64931	Thank you very much. When you've already raised that question, and it's probably going to be the minister and referencing, I hope and I see that there are suggestions that countys in some way get involved more in the work of this entire system which can be good but we need to be careful because we saw in some ministries, there's a tendency to do more additional structures, for example there was Minister Žalac here a few days ago who explained that she wanted the executive bodies to move to the county level. And she needs a couple thousand people per county to call it in. So what we are concerned about here, and I hope that the Minister will deny that it will not be a system in the future designed to make certain public employment again, or in some way to involve the county in doing certain structures that might possibly be needed to employ some more people and we know how it ends up in general and how it usually works, especially because in most counties we have a lot of bulky systems and a number of employees and it's always convenient somewhere for a mayor to hire another 5.6 of his people, and that's certainly not the intensity of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64932	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you mentioned what the former ministers did or didn't do so you can't even remember what they were called or what they were called, etc., but what they pointed out, I think you were a minister, you should have known things didn't fall off Mars at once. So someone doesn't do anything, so someone comes along and suddenly a bunch of things are created and realized from once. Here are the concrete laws and including the Law on Professional Education, the working group has already had a long time, scientific centres of excellence for which contracts were signed about a month and a half ago, weighing 373 million at the beginning of the year were unblocked and before that were blocked for a long time, the project... In the first half of the year, it was given the status of a strategic project, the social STAM scholarships that had been increased multiplely compared to the previous ones that had just been approved by the intermediate body of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions system, also in the first half of the year so you can't say that someone had not worked, that you don't know what someone was doing, etc., I don't think I'm going to be a lawyer of people who aren't here but what's important to understand is that there's one continuity, that the projects don't start today and the contracts are being concluded tomorrow, but that's one process that the past ministers and the new ministers are working on with their team, and it's quite normal but it doesn't need to ignore all those preparatory actions that were taken before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64934	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64935	I couldn't agree more with you. So all this stuff you've listed has been started and done in our time, so nothing has started with the government, and I remember Mr. Shustar well because he's a very special politician. He began his political career in the Laburists and ended up in HDZ, who wouldn't remember him. I guess it's a unique case in the Republic of Croatia. He was a member and president of Labour in Rijeka and then made a transfer to HDZ which I don't think exists on the political scene so that I know well about him and I followed his, though short-term work as a minister and as a politician, probably now returns to the University of Rijeka. But what I want for you, this is all you've listed is written in the strategy we adopted here, it was even unanimously adopted almost in the Croatian Parliament, and these are projects that should only be implemented, we encourage and we want and we support it to be done. We keep the figurines to finally get it going because a little of it worked especially during Mr. Barisic's time. He's probably some other priority, though. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64936	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the proposing respected Minister of Science and Education, Minister Blaženka Divjak will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64937	... But let me answer some of the remarks that were. [[The speech room is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] I thank all those who have made comments because all the comments that are made, the comments actually make us think because it can be that really when you read it and, of course, those who read it in detail can certainly say whether some things are unclear, whether some things are wrong, or if they would edit these things differently. Between those three cases, of course, there is a difference. Of course it's not all bad in our vocational education but that there's room for improvement we see it based on the state of the economy, how people who finish vocational education are employed and what an interest it is for our vocational schools, it means for sure if I go back to the beginning of my presentation when I represent the law there's plenty of room for improvement. I would also say something that should be seen that in this law this transition to competences is made, meaning knowledge and skills, independence and accountability are important but especially in vocational education without emphasis on competences, skills will not be a significant shift, and then there is a link and according to learning based on work. These competences also connect us to the Croatian qualification framework, which is an instrument for harmonising with labour market needs. Through the standard of occupation of qualifications and then the alignment of educational programs with those standards. And it's not exactly, so when we have the law, it's not exactly true that it's all non-binding because we've signed a lot of things about it, for example, the Bologna Declaration of Higher Education, which also introduces the levels that bind us to the descriptions that appear in HKO. Also, by adopting the HKO Act, we have made a major step towards harmonising with the European Qualifications Framework, and I think it is important to reflect and try to gain benefits from this, we are also trying to obtain important information for our system, also to enable our qualifications to be recognised in the European space without additional verifications. In the construction of these instruments that we have installed, these solutions that we have put into these amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework really worked with different ministries, with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and they were included. They were also included in the committee and later on through the meaning of different consultations and their observations were taken into account and they will be included in the competence centres as co-workers, because although the centres of competence are named on the basis of the network and the recommendations of the council and meeting the criteria, it is still important to say that the centre in order to be appointed has to submit a development plan and in this development plan I am particularly paying attention to this and particular attention to long-term sustainability because this long-term sustainability is not only because the founder or ministry will pay something but because the centre of competence really appears as a whole new way of cooperation with employers and as a centre for enabling lifelong education and learning. Of course, some of these activities are like that and they're being earned. It is okay as it is okay that there are different other activities based on what is described which are all the competences and which is all the scope of the affairs of the centres of competence and based on one such plan on a five-year period is appointed the centre of competence. So it's not the centre of competence that's a list of simple wishes sent by mayors or sent by mayors but really important to include a broad consortium, meaning economic operators, chambers, horizontal vertical passing, very clearly define what the activities of the centre are and most important of all long-term sustainability. So that's why every five years the license for the competence centres is renewed. Of course, there's an immediate answer to the question we've heard, and I think it's justifiable because we've also talked about why the founders' representatives wouldn't be part of the council of vocational education, so what's the reason for that. So because the founders are just the ones who propose centres and if they were to appear and, therefore, some of them, some representatives of the founders and like those who are members of the council in that case, they would have had a direct impact on the proposal and in that case our assessment was that it would be a conflict of interest and that was why we did not interact in this first interaction even though we had thought about it, we put in place the representatives of the founders in the Council for Professional Education. As far as interpretations are concerned, here is a colleague of Glasovac about whether the curriculum of the institution for vocational education is strategic. So, it is developed on the basis of sectoral and professional curricula after their adoption in cooperation with stakeholders of vocational education at local and regional level. And of course that means it's a document that defines the institution and the vocational education in the institution for the longer term. If it changes, of course, it can be changed but it is not expected to change every year because this would mean that each year these parenting curriculaes mentioned here are changed in detail and that every year they are renegotiated with stakeholders. But when it is changed if it means it is not proposed for next year, it is then, of course, by 31 August of the current year for the next school year, it is put into practice. Maybe it should be more clearly written, to make that difference, but there were no wrong interpretations. In addition, if we talk about a quality assurance system, methodology and field of self-evaluation, the Professional Education Agency brings, and the methodology of external evaluation of the Institute for Professional Education brings the National Centre for External Evaluation in cooperation with the Agency. There's no problem here, because it's a methodology, it's not about the implementation of external evaluation, and that's the important difference. The methodology is different from the implementation, which means the implementation of external evaluation under the Law on the National External Assessment Centre means as a founding act, so it clearly states that the implementation is at the National Centre. If we withdraw the high education parallel, the Agency for Science and Higher Education brings both methodology and conducts an external evaluation. Therefore, there is no conflict. Maybe it just needs to connect these things and it's not very simple and I agree that the more complex termology we use here is in that sense. Okay, here's a couple more notes. It is clear, then, that this law should provide a basis for strengthening the system of vocational schools, not for building a parallel system to abandon the existing and building a new one. It's not the idea of these amendments and the addition of laws and that's not what we bring before you. I ask you to really consider it, so thank you, of course, to all those who recognize that this law is the basis for even development, meaning that it will give everyone a chance to develop evenly. Similarly, those who have really dented and seen that the adoption of a network does not mean the appointment of certain institutions, but criteria and guidelines, and that this is very different from when a network of institutions is brought into the government's control. Here we are talking about criteria and guidelines, that there are several steps of verification, meaning criteria, that the criteria are those that are being worked out publicly and published. Of course, this is particularly important when we talk about competence centres that are expected to receive funds from funds, especially important because it is relatively large funds. That billion kuna is a truly very impressive figure, so these criteria are already being handed over. They are discussed on competent authorities and when it will be publicly published I think it will be a very good basis for development and these sustainability plans, meaning which would be long-term. And also the basis for the allocation of funds on the basis of clear and unequivocal criteria. Of course, the continuity of these laws is extremely important in such proposals. I have therefore pointed out from the very beginning that this is the beginning of a very large comprehensive reform in the field of vocational education systems, but we also said that these things have not been since yesterday, that we have a strategy for the development of vocational education which was valid until 2013, a law adopted by 2009. Then the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which we really coordinate because it is an important instrument that gives us a link to the labour market. Likewise, the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology has recognised priorities and measures, but it has not developed this system to the extent that it would give a basis for this law. That is why the development programme of the vocational education and training system is the foundation that we have identified these documents. The same way we put certain things in the process. And I think that continuity is important, but it's just as important to improve from step to step as we do. I hope you recognize that. Of course the documents mean a lot, but here I'm just going to say that it's not simple what the esteemed representative Maras says that only the realization remains. Sometimes it's all about what we said here in that syntagma just realisation. So sometimes it's very simple or maybe not that simple but much simpler to prepare the bases. What represents an important step away from the paper is to go into realisation, and this law, this bill, this amendment and the addition of the law, represents this step from something that we have on paper in realisation. Here I would at this point thank you all for the remarks, for the discussion, for the reading, for the patience when you listened to these answers we give. I hope we win and I believe we'll get support in this first reading. We will try all the remarks we have to consider, see how to improve them, hence these amendments and supplement the law and hope to see you at the opportunity of another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64938	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64939	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, after your presentation and certain remarks, there is one more concern for us that we also have some proposals and related to the Council of Professional Education that we will try until the second reading, perhaps if there are still certain concerns in the debate, perhaps an amendment proposal. But what my colleague Glasovac said in her debate and what is important about the external evaluation of the institutions for vocational education, that it is unnecessary for the National Centre for External Education to do so in cooperation. So, then it suggests that the agency with the agency, which suggests that the agency participates in the procedure. Instead of what was the point of the agency being able to make a methodology, but that the National Centre was doing it on its own without the agency. So, the National Centre for External Evaluation, and that may be something that should further clarify Article 8 of the Law, and it should not now cause such excitement on the bench next to the minister, I think it is one of the most common things that can be explained, corrected, more precisely, so it is unnecessary to have that dump, because I believe that the minister can very easily remove it without, I say, these emotions additional. So, here, I'm asking you to just explain it to us a little bit and, if possible, accept it as an attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64940	The answer of the respected Minister Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64941	Thank you very much. So once again, I mean it's not simple, these instruments are complex, but I repeat again, here we define something called an external evaluation methodology. So it's being brought in the sub-basement, the indicators, the procedures, the way it's being valued. And it literally says here, the methodology of external evaluation, established for vocational education, brings the National Centre in cooperation with the agency, and implementation is something else. It's not prescribed here, so it's not prescribed here. Article 8 is an indicator of the quality of vocational education, its monitoring, and the use of evaluation results for professional... prescribes the Minister by means of a rulebook. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that's another one. It means class methodology, and quality indicators, and the methodology contains other than quality indicators, complete development means both the method of evaluation and how it is approached and how the outside councils and committees are formed. However, I allow it to be clarified if it is necessary, so we will consider how to explain it. But those two things need to be distinguished.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64942	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64943	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 250. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Education and Others will first be adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 87 votes for, 34 abstentions, draws the conclusion that it was transferred by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64944	Moving to the next point, we have two more to remind you. The next item is: - Final proposal of the Tourism Service Act, second reading, P.Z.E., No. 209. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendment may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Here, here is the final proposal of the Tourism Service Act. As already known from the first reading, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to transpose Directive 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 25.11.2015 on travel in packages and related travel arrangements, which Member States are obliged to adopt and publish by 1.1.2018 and with effect from 1 July 2018. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, in the text before you in the final draft of the law, there have been some changes as a consequence of respecting the views presented in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies during the first reading, as well as amendments by the promoters. These newspapers are the following, public institutions operating protected areas, an extended range of tourist services that can be provided in their area, e.g. tourist diving services, nautical tourism services, tourist services in congress tourism. Like in national parks, Brijuni, Kornati, Plitvice. The paper is also the following, the appointment of higher schools for conducting expert examinations for tourist guides and the rules for conducting an expert examination, will be adopted with a preliminary opinion, the Minister of Education. Furthermore, the regulation on plans for nautical tourism facilities, related to fishing vessels, as boating facilities of nautical tourism, will be adopted with the previous opinion of the fisheries minister. In addition, the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, related to inclusion, fishing activities, particularly related to the work of freshwater ponds, which are engaged in aquaculture, will be accepted, and the Aquaculture authorities will be able to provide tourist services for the vacation and recreation of tourists on the water farm, as a service in a special form of tourism, which is governed by Article 94 of this final proposal of the law. With regard to the conditions to be met, the manager of the business at the tourist agency has reduced the number of years of work experience to one year, and in order to remove administrative obstacles and finally, the proposals of the Committee on Legislatives have also been accepted in terms of the completion of the text of the bill in legal and nomotechnical terms. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia or in the budgets of units of local, regional, regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64946	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64947	Here's since I've given up an individual debate, here's what I'm going to use the opportunity to say through the replica, just a few things. Some things can be defined later through the rulebook, but I would still mention here, now I don't know if I can possibly implement myself in the law itself, it's about the problem of tourist guides. I have been contacted by a number of guides from Sibenik with bread. There are all 3500 of them in Croatia, I assume you know that. And they, given the new law, have lost some rights, which can, as far as I've seen through the rulebook, be defined. And it is said that today, tomorrow, anyone from abroad, they will be able to carry out the activities they are doing today, without completing courses in Croatia. To prevent this, the proposal is to introduce protected localities touristic. Well, I'd like to hurry up with that rulebook and get these localities fixed as soon as possible, to protect the Croatian meaning of tourist guides. The second thing and the second point, I don't know if it's defined by law, I don't think it is, and that's the level of knowledge of Croatian language. We must also make sure here that all those who will be in Croatia tomorrow for tourist guides, that they must know Croatian. These courses are done in Croatian and there must be no compromise, especially the Croatian language and the official language of the EU. Another little thing I'd like to mention here, and it can be linked to this law that's very important, and I'm sorry that this late what we're discussing about him is a transfer of tax obligations specifically for booking. It is one topic that should be linked to the Ministry of Finance that the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Finance agree because many tenants today are burdened with something that they should not be burdened with, by one financial issue because they pay a tax for booking.com which should actually pay booking.com.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64948	Thank you. The reply of the respected secretary of state, Fran Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64949	Thank you, Your Honor. The protected quality rule is still in force and is now in force and will, of course, be changed if necessary but will generally remain within the frameworks as it is now. So the guides won't lose anything in that sense. However, I think that we have set an even higher level of protection when we talk about protected qualities because those who can provide tourist guide services on a temporary and occasional basis and we are talking about guides from the European Economic Area from the Swiss Confederation, so those who can carry out the activity on that basis, can but not on protected quality. And it's a newspaper of this law, and we already explained that in our first reading. So in this sense, I believe that there will also be satisfied associations of tourist guides. As far as booking.com is concerned, unfortunately it is an obligation that arises from the booking.com contract with those who offer their services on the market, rentals, so the tenants and they are obliged to pay taxes on their incomes to them. So they're due renters to work on the basis of a contract between booking.com and themselves. So it's not something that even the Ministry of Finance can get involved in. The Ministry can only monitor the implementation of whether they fulfil all their obligations. As far as you're concerned, you've also mentioned the knowledge of Croatian language, so language knowledge regarding tourist guide services must be for those languages in which the service is provided, and that's at B2 level. And for those who come to Croatia of course need sufficient knowledge of Croatian language, it is, of course, difficult to define by law, but it is crucial that the service it is provided, the language in which the service is provided must therefore be at B2 level and this is increased and will increase and in the next period in the education of guides will increase the number of hours needed for protected sites and for the general part of the exams. And in that sense, these changes have already been respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64950	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And it will be the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of the respected representative Anton Kliman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Miss Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. I've taken a lot of paper, but I'm going to take a quick look at this second law reading. We discussed very closely in the first reading of this whole law on which we of the HDZ Club gave a positive assessment. We will also support in the first, therefore, and in this second reading this law which we consider to be a significant shift in relation to what was before. And we definitely see that you've also respected some of the remarks from the debate itself and some of the professional associations, later, we saw through your debate and I think that's very good. Otherwise, this whole law exudes with one atmosphere of respect for the profession. That's what we said in our first reading, we have to do it again today. So it was a quality conversation with the Travel Agency Association, it talked to many tourist guides, and I think this is a good law that has respected the EU directives, every case it had to, but it has succeeded and satisfied the needs of our business entities, as well as private persons, or persons of tourist guides. In any case, the HDZ club will support this law, and here I wouldn't even be longer, and here's some late hour, but given that we've been very quality and discussed, and all together in the first reading, I don't think there's any need given these minor changes that were, that I don't owe any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64952	Thank you. Yet you have one replica, the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64953	Dear colleague Kleman, here I am sorry that in this late hour we are discussing such an important law, 20% of GDP and something less than tourism, and I think this law should have some priority to discuss in the morning. Here's today's St. John's Day. Luca, one of these holidays, here's this opportunity if he's watching me, I think he's looking at me right now, Lucia Zekanovic congratulating the name and Lucia Kliman, also, here's Lucia Kliman's dad has forgotten so I'm using the occasion. Here are two questions, the secretary of state answered me but here I'm going to ask you now, given that you've been Minister for a while, transferring the tax liability but this time not for booking but for RBNB. So here we have, so we have two rental providers, one pays something to Croatia for the services it behaves, the other nothing. RBNB of that Croatia has nothing, RBNB is if I am not mistaken American firm. They bring in, as I know, 30, 40% of guests in Croatia and Croatia has no VAT, there is nothing, and that is one problem for me that needs to be solved. Here's a colleague, Kleman. You can explain it to me a little bit. And there's another problem, there's one, a weak definition between tourist guides and tourists. When, often there are escorts to smuggle,... course, they simply register as escorts and do the work of tourist guides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that should be better defined by the rules, by law. I see that it is a particular problem for tourist guides in the field and that they often do their job. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64954	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64955	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Zekanovic's, you're right. And as for booking.com and RBNB. This is not only a problem for Croatia, but it is a problem for the whole EU, and for the short time that I acted as minister, I had several bilaterals with colleagues from Hungary, Austria and Italy, so those who were not in the role of ministers but state secretaries as a pandan for our secretary of state, and this problem is being passed through and through their legislation and in their fulfillment of tax obligations. Booking.com is registered in the Netherlands and falls under Dutch laws, their service is charged under Dutch laws. One part of the service or tax liability belongs to our taxpayers and we are not happy with it. I also talked to the head of the tax administration about Booking.com and in the whole EU area will be dealing with this problem in the package because Booking.com definitely makes a lot of money and pays very little in the countries where the service is created, so there is a small nanadical system of services it provides, it is treated as being provided in the Netherlands, but the service is de facto provided on the territory of the service provider and this is, for example, concretely in this case Croatia and it will definitely have to be solved on this issue. Even more drastic is the case with the RBNB where it is charged in America absolutely everything that is charged, yesterday I read through the portal that Slovenia started working on the problem and that those who are not registered through the RBNB as landlords, so not as renters in the tourist sense, but as landlords, will fall under sanctions and the repression of the tax administration in Slovenia. We'll probably have to take this kind of approach, because it seems to me we can't allow tax ejaculation on that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64956	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which MP Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64957	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this law even though there are a lot of things that still need to be done and some things that are not in the law that should be answered, or perhaps included. The fact is that from this debate that we have just led here to provide tourism or services that are done in tourism and the time to move away or how new services are created, how new sales channels are created that it is very difficult to follow these things by law but that we will have to answer that in some future period. And in principle we at SDP's Club of Representatives are against excessive regulation of workloads in certain professions, here we have now heard from fellow Matusic that they have adopted even some proposals to reduce, for example, the needs of a business manager to one year of experience in the agency or similar jobs in tourism, it is always quite a general form of what is similar to business or knowledge of a world language and knowledge, which means knowledge, which is a level. So, in principle, we are inclined to make as few standards as possible of these things regardless of what someone will say there should be certain control to ensure a certain quality of service in the area of the Republic but in principle in tourism I think that very rarely a tourist will go unsatisfactory from a country if, for example, the head of a tourism business or someone who deals with tourism was not perfect in a particular language, in principle, people are more focused on the service in terms of quality of accommodation, food, additional content, etc. So tourism services need to denorm as much as possible and thus enable people to deal with tourism. Of course the state must have certain control but it should be as liberal as possible. As far as the law itself is concerned, there are certain misunderstandings when it should come into effect, we see that it is defined by us in a way that it cuts with the tourist season but I say, all together in the end, we will support the law because we think it is a step forward even though there is still room for its promotion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64958	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives of the HNS in the name to be spoken by the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64959	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, very quickly, very briefly. However, I think tourism is one of the most important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia and we know what it means to us in everything that makes the economy of a country, so what this law regulates, of course what we support above all is the reduction of administrative barriers to the start and continuation of entrepreneurial activity. Of course, as regards the issues of regulation of services in health tourism, in congress tourism, I will return only briefly and of course we still have a number of works of those regulatory things that are actually recognized for the first time as such to be defined as tourist transfer services. We talked there even from the tourist diving, rent a car etc., may sound this banal but absolutely everything should be revised. What I would like to highlight in the arrangement of tourism services in congress tourism is something that I see the potential of developed continental tourism above all. It is precisely in its competitiveness and fulfillment of existing capacities that some of the projects certainly have the opportunity to live in continental tourism which unfortunately gives us a thick helmet for other forms or other areas if we are talking about the sea, but here we are also talking about the city of Zagreb which, by entering the EU, we are experiencing a single bloom of tourism, so it is not just the sea and it is not just the natural beauty that we thank God for the previous bait for tourists, but there is certainly much more opportunities to attract the tourists themselves. Why Congress tourism? So because it puts the topic, not for the very reason of coming to a country in terms of a tourist tour, but in terms of a particular business or convention or whatever the seminar is called in terms of what they are doing there. And here we can take advantage of the opportunity to promote our country, where the promotion of this congress tourism in areas where tourism is not so recognized and which have or encourage the development of these tourist facilities that have the possibility of providing even congress tourism is something that must be a priority for the even development of our entire Croatia. Why am I saying that? So here is specifically in Osijek-Baranja County, we have things that we can certainly offer to Osijek and something that will be a project of regional self-government, or county, is certainly one incentive for the development of congress tourism. But there can certainly also be designed through the tourist community and through the ministry, individual programs in which you can't really define the season, which is different from the season that was recognized in Croatia in those summer months. And the goal of each and so far of the ministry and of our government is that the longer we extend this tourist season, the longer it is not just the three summer months, but the longer it expands, of course, that these capacities are being used as long as possible. It is in this sense that we encourage this congress tourism by enabling all those who have the possibility of receiving 30, 50 people and ensuring certain events to subsidize the accommodation itself in one way. In this way, we will be able to attract a more favourable price, and of course with extra extra non-boarding content in these locations of tourists above all domicile, and then, of course, all foreign tourists and thus promote the area and show which are all the beauty. Of course there's one form that I haven't found tourism in this, but I haven't read the whole law just the main things. It's a question of charter tourism, probably mentioned somewhere. It's the same opportunity for a promotion. So, we can work on charter trips that are not only in terms of boats or some tourist buses, but can also be plane charters of tourism where one can happen to visit Croatia in 10 days and on the continent and on the coast and Zagreb only a little bit by organising that level of transportation, of course, which for Osijek would mean too much that you have a daily weekly one plane from Dubrovnik that drives tourists, one plane from Split, one plane possibly from Pula, and they then whether someone stays or returns back. And that plane absolutely has the potential in its cargo transport because it comes empty, people are domestically located in some hotels. And you come to Dubrovnik and you see the largest swamp in Europe. Why not? If I can give 100 euros to ride a boat for 10 hours with one mackerel or a heart or whatever they give, then I can certainly give 100 euros or 1000 kuna to come see the largest swamp, baroque fortress or something that's on the continent and go back. And in doing so, we are economically connecting this green and blue Croatia. So the potential is full and certainly has plenty of room for progress. What I can certainly only point out here is that regret that it is not accepted in front of the club to determine about foreign tourist guides where it is stated that knowledge of Croatian language is sufficient that I do not know how it will be decided, that no classification has been placed which is precisely European and which they are looking for at least at B2 level. And it'll probably show the practice that it might be necessary later. Otherwise, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64960	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, something will say to the esteemed Secretary of State Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate tonight, but also to all those who contributed to this proposal, the final proposal of the law will be as good as possible through public debate and first reading, and in this sense I believe that this Final Bill will indeed serve all those involved in providing tourist services to make their results even more successful in the most successful economic branch of the Republic of Croatia. Because as you know, tourism contributes with 20% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, expectations are high. But we believe that we have managed to arrange the area of service in a way that will match both those users and service providers. And in that sense, thank you again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64962	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64963	Final proposal of the Tourism Service Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 209. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The rupture is complete. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, and I would ask the proposing representative to show the amendments submitted. With us is State Secretary at the tourism ministry Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64964	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64965	First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64966	The first amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, the amendment to Article 7 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64967	There's an integral part of the law. The second amendment, Article 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64968	The second amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64969	Third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64970	It's acceptable, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64971	And these two become an integral part of the law. Then let's go. Fourth Amendment, Article 86.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64972	The amendment to Article 86 shall not be accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64973	Obviously, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64974	In addition to that explanation... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64975	Thank you. So the Proposer gives up the amendment. We're going to Amendment 5, Article 102.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64976	Amendment number 5 is accepted, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64977	And he becomes an integral part of the law. We are now moving on to the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64978	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64979	And he becomes an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 123 votes for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Tourism Service Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64980	We move to the next point, which is - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, second reading, P.Z. No. 165. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases will redefine the obligations relating to the acquisition of knowledge of hygiene of persons working directly with food every five years. Obligations relating to medical examinations of persons under medical supervision, arrangements and conditions for the issuing of mortuaries, in particular in the part of the mortuaries for persons who have died from non-infectious diseases and for mortuaries which are issued for the transfer of dead persons to the Republic of Croatia, the scope of general public protection measures against infectious diseases, i.e. the obligation to monitor zoonoses and zoonoses with special emphasis on an effective zoonose monitoring system and their agents in animal food and human population. Prescribing the unique cost of gaining knowledge of the hygiene of persons by decision of the Minister of Health. The difference between the solution proposed by the final draft law in relation to the draft draft law, the reasons for which these differences have arisen, means in Article 2 amending Article 26(1) of the preceding exemption laid down in point 1 in the exemption from the healthcare supervision of persons providing catering services in the household and the OPGs has been deleted. Article 6 amending Article 37(2) amends the time limit for the renewal of knowledge while Article 3 extends the possibility of persons who are excluded from the obligation to acquire the necessary knowledge from the programme of obtaining knowledge of the health level of food, given that they are considered to have acquired sufficient knowledge of the health level of food during their education. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 15, paragraph 2 is added, which sets out the provisions of the Guidelines on the treatment of waste resulting from the provision of health care as set out in the law on the sustainable management of waste and the Regulation on the management of medical waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64982	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected representatives from the ministry and MPs. Well, on behalf of the board as president, I would say that we discussed it at the session on December 13, 2017 as a parent working body. In the opening work, the proposaler's representative highlighted the solutions proposed in relation to the bill we had in July. The proposed text of the final draft law in Article 2 amending Article 26 of the Law and in paragraph 2 of the above is deleted with the exception of the exemption from the health supervision of persons providing catering services in the household and on the OPGs, which was the objection of the Committee. The competent authority of the health inspector for the issuing of the mortuary is also more precisely defined and Article 15 is added to paragraph 2 which provides that the guidance on the management of waste resulting from the provision of health care is not in force since the provisions of the Sustainable Management Act and the Regulation on the management of medical waste are laid down. Some members of the committee in the debate expressed concern over the reduction in the dynamics of the conduct of health checks, considering and conducting preventive checks must remain twice a year, and not once as it is in accordance with the provisions of the Action Plan for Administrative Disposal of the Economy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2017. The board also believes that the discharge of entrepreneurs of around 50 million kuna on the one hand and the risk of possible epidemics on the other hand are serious and, according to the Croatian tourist definition, they are not a good solution. It is also not positive to redefine the provisions on health examination bonds or to reduce the scope of the health examination of persons under supervision no longer involving persons in the education system, healthcare professionals other than maternity staff and persons handling exclusively packed food. The applicant's representative explained the intention of exempting from that obligation for persons of high professional fitness, means medical pharmacies, sanitary engineering, biochemical engineering, food engineering and veterinary purposes, and considered that those acquire the necessary and appropriate knowledge in the field of medical microbiology and parasites, ecology, technology, food health and general and special hygiene. With regard to those provisions, i.e. redefined bonds and the dynamics of carrying out health checks, concerns for employees and the work of HZJZ and the County Public Health Offices have also been expressed. The applicant’s representative explained that, for these reasons, because of the need for satisfactory organisational and financial solutions and the establishment of a network of ecology teams, the provisions laid down in Article 4 of the Law will only enter into force on 1 January 2019. After the discussion, members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64984	Thank you very much. I open the debate, the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64985	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the esteemed assistant minister, our 5 colleagues, here is a very important law, a comprehensive law on the protection of the public from infectious diseases that doesn't change much, but here's what's kind of important to point out that somehow it seems to me that in this situation, or maybe today, we've already discussed today's first item of the minimum wage agenda where it's gotten the impression that somehow it's going to be going to help the economy, so in this sense, maybe the question is whether at this point in time when health is in this situation with this many large debts, whether these fifty million economies are so important that it might partly affect the health system's relationship with part of the HZZ is going to lose a part of the income from which in some way they live and which are important in business, but here, I hope that some other way will be able to help public health institutions to continue to continue to carry out all of their own protection, in any way. On July 27th, the government of the Republic of Croatia has already decided on a list of non-taxable duties to be reduced in some way, abolished, and thus aided the economy. So here are some of these measures for education fees, hygiene staff working in direct contact with food and health checks,... which persons who need to be under medical supervision and both of them are in the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this action plan would administratively relieve the economy, help in some way. Here's how health care will be involved. But I'm saying it might be better if health care was excluded from this part of helping the economy this time, so, because I think we need to help the health care get out of these problems and actually find a way to help the health system as efficiently as possible, reform it to be as good as possible with as little costs and as efficient as possible. This is important, meaning that about 50 million kunas have been disbursed, here are the proposals and the Health Committee in the first reading. I think largely, most of it is actually accepted those proposals made by the Health Committee and in the debate in the first reading. So, what was the idea and what was very important here, I think it's authorized legally... The minister shall, by means of a single decision, provide compensation for the implementation of the knowledge of hygiene. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, and of course... given that prices ranged from 160 to 437 kuna or from 245 to 480 for health care education, the course of health education was indeed diverse and that many went to other counties to carry out the cheapest review, i.e. this education, which was legally determined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this part, of course, here we fully agree with this proposal. And the HDZ Club will support this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64986	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64987	Comrade Karlić, in your presentation on several occasions you pointed out the question of different actions that go to health damage. So today you mentioned the first item of the agenda and the one where the total health care loses 300 million kuna. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance doesn't pay him a billion and 200 million kuna. So how do you explain it, and how do you think it will make up for its health? Because again health means in this at the end of next year it's going to be less than a billion and 500 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64988	The answer of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64989	Here I am convinced that the Minister of Health along with the Minister of Finance, i.e. the Croatian Government, will find as they have now found billions and 100 million kunas of additional funds in the rebalancing process to help health care in the coming year and, of course, the new Health Protection Act that will find ways to achieve efficiency and cost reduction in health and thus actually help reduce these debts that exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64990	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the next one will speak to the respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for saying hello to everyone again. So the government presented a proposal for an action plan that should bring savings to entrepreneurs of one and a half billion kuna. According to this plan, the biggest savings for entrepreneurs are planned in the field of protection at work, as much as 1.3 billion kuna from the current 2.38 billion. The savings in the area of sanitary and health conditions are estimated at EUR 97 million from the current 207 million. For example, when issuing a sanitary card for people who come to work in contact with food, it is proposed to reduce the frequency of performing health examinations from 2 to 1 times a year to save 50%, a total of 83 million kuna. So Economy Minister Dalic, whose ministry has also drawn up this plan, probably also a bill proposal, is very clear and without consulting social partners, has shown that in Croatia labour protection is an unnecessary and unacceptable cost. Since under the existing Law on Public Protection against Infectious Diseases, employers pay the commercial price of the review for their employees, it has concluded that this can be treated as a parafiscal imposition whose abolition will significantly help business entities subject to the obligation to review workers. To make things more bizarre, it's about 300 kuna per worker in a country where the enormous noose taxes around the neck are smaller employers, 300 kuna a year, so two times if the checks are done, two times a year. But what has to be said is that epidemiologists have seriously warned that the review measures of certain groups of workers and the education of employers on preventing the spread of infectious diseases significantly reduce the possibility of large epidemics, which we further narrow down to this law that everyone who wrote it to be compromised, we heard today and on the board, and that in walking, if it should be changed again, but it is primarily in line with employers. In Croatia, no catastrophic epidemics carried over by food in tourist facilities or by the food industry, via water water or other facilities under supervision have been reported. If epidemics occur, fewer of them, they quickly stop epidemiological services that continuously co-operate with workers and employers in tourist, production and other facilities where the risk of epidemic and transmission of infections is high. Therefore, by abolishing measures, measures like this, measures so far, ongoing surveillance and examination of employees in particularly risky occupations, the risk of epidemics is inevitably increasing and anti-epid interventions are complicated with possible serious consequences. As a result, the MOST club supports the proposed amendments and additions to the laws in part of the exemption cover the conduct of a health examination of persons with high professional training, high professional orientation of medicine, pharmacies, sanitary engineering, biochemical engineering, food engineering and veterinary sciences that, as part of higher education, acquire adequate knowledge. It is also proposed to consider including dental medicine and clinical nutritionists and persons who acquire the necessary knowledge as part of higher education. But it wasn't adopted. We were not in agreement with the decision not to subject health supervision to persons in the household providing catering services as OPGs, it was accepted. But we believe that still, people who come into contact with packed food should not be excluded from this law. So, we believe that for the sake of security, the ministry should have observed, that preventive checks should continue to remain twice a year. We object to it being once a year and now we leave with a delay of 1.1.2019. Is it just to give yourself enough time to see, however, whether there is a problem on the ground, or you said, that they will also think about the need for public health institutions, for some time to adapt, but we need to be aware of what it means to seduce public health, which they play a role in public health in Croatia. And actually, this is one significant part of the income, which actually points to everything that means their action, in every local environment. We agree with the proposal of the Minister of Health, to establish the prices of health checks and the memory of persons for the whole of Croatia, regardless of where knowledge acquisition is carried out, i.e. medical examination is carried out. It really has to be even. Finally, I have to show concern with the legal solution of redefining administrative obligations, in terms of sanitary examinations, we believe that the discharge of entrepreneurs, amounting to about 50 million kuna, on the one hand and the danger of possible epidemics on the other, in accordance with the Croatian tourist definition, is not a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64992	Thank you, too. We have one replica, a respected representative of Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Strenja Linić, and you spoke, as well as your colleague Karlic, about discharging the economy, at the expense of health care, where I have to ask you the same question. So, as my counterpart Karlic replied, the rebalancing that this would be resolved, one billion will be found again and given to health care. So again in the beginning, there is an impression of health care as a system of losers and, of course, it should cut costs a little bit, but then why not even go in that way and give health care a billion and two hundred million, to which it belongs under the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, but it is being denied, and then later the Government and the Finance Minister appear as saviors and give health care, something they initially took from it. Well, that demagogy is something that bothers me very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64994	Reply by the respected representative Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64995	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. That's what I've talked about more than once. So, a situation in which, systematically, every year, I have to correct you, a billion and a half, not at the moment, we are not paying in Croatian Health, HZZO and these measures, today we have seen, that around 250 million kuna, less, due to, means raising minimum wages, but less payment in HZZO, with these 50, so it is only today 300 million, definitely affecting the health system. I believe that this government has definitely not made a move, nor shown any intention, any more serious reforms, financial situations, within the health system, and I am seriously concerned about that. Absolutely, yes, I am for intrusions that will actually further penalize alcoholic beverages and cigarettes. But, first of all, it should be said, that already now, from excise duties, it means cigarettes, billions and 300 million are harvested in Croatia, all of which is the grandfather's share of those 4.2 billion that you have to pay in HZZO, but not a billion and a half. So this country must finally start, comply with its laws, or it must change them. Health care is obviously a bag in which it can still be reached in this way, although, I think, it seemed even simpler when it was inside the Treasury and it was one good step, to finally know how much money health is available. The fact is, the intentions are... The finance minister, to return it to the state treasury, would be a disastrous move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64996	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm reading this bill of law with mixed feelings, so there are parts that I support, there are parts that are controversial to me, but I'm absolutely not satisfied that this bill actually didn't make the Ministry of Health, but it was made by the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, this whole law is complex to meet the action plan for administrative redundancies of the economy. Of course I'm for the administrative dispensation of the economy. But the question is whether this kind of administrative redundancy of the economy will bring benefits to the economy and whether that money will really go to the economy or lose itself again on the road between the Ministry of Health, where it has now been, the teaching institution for public health and I don't know whose pockets. So I don't think that this is a good way to go and find ways to increase health income, of course, take care and reduce expenditure, but in this way, we won't bring good health. I agree with the evening of prices, at the level of teaching institutions for public health, which has been a problem so far. I also agree with the fact that part of the people employed in the system, who, during his education, acquired adequate knowledge, can be excluded from the measures so far. But, let's say, you're State Secretary in Art. In paragraph 1, 2, 3. where it states, it is considered that persons who have completed a university study or a specialist degree in medicine, pharmacies, sanitary engineering, biochemical engineering, food engineering, nutrition, biology, biotechnology and veterinary sciences possess the necessary knowledge of food health and personal hygiene, so they are excluded. In the same Article 6, two paragraphs later, where the preceding paragraph should actually be repeated, the following shall be considered as having the necessary knowledge to prevent infectious diseases and personal hygiene, and are excluded from paragraph 4 of this Article. Here, it would have to write the same thing as in paragraph 2. So, name the area of sanitary, biochemical engineering, food engineering, nutritionism, and you don't say that. So here you added something in Article 2(2) but you forgot to insert it in Article 6. And now I don't know if what you stated in article 2 of medical-laboratory diagnostics falls into that area. So there are some illogicalities that might still be able to correct the government's amendment by the time it's adopted. Therefore, I think the law is not good and it is not good for the health ministry's policy to be run by the Ministry of Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64998	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. See you tomorrow at 9.30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law implementing the European Union regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 239. Good night! The session was interrupted at 22.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u64999	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, second reading, P.Z. No. 165, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. We would ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, respected Tomislav Dulibic, to show about the amendments submitted. Here you go. The first is the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65000	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65001	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65002	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65003	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Now we're going to the amendment of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65004	The amendment is not accepted. The adoption of amendments could endanger a stable epidemiological situation of infectious diseases in Croatia, the acquisition of knowledge of food health and personal hygiene, the key to preventing and combating infectious diseases carried over by food and water and which still pose a significant threat to the health of our residents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65005	I'm asking my colleague Vlaovic to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65006	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear rapporteur, we do not accept your explanation because as a proponent of this law in the first reading of the OPG, you have put how we, too, propose in the amendment to be released from this health review for those who wish to deal with the additional activity of providing services in tourism. We don't understand, since you've also spent your first reading on e-consultation, held discussions in all ministries, resolution groups, and went through this proposal. I don't see what happened between the first reading and the second reading that you're throwing the O.P.G.s out of the bill, leaving them with a medical examination. On the one hand, we bring the Law on OPGs where we want to give meaning to the OPGs, and here we have passed the Law on the provision of services in tourism where we give them a chance to deal with tourism, to develop in Croatia, and here you now impose new impose on them. I don't think that's the way we want to develop rural areas, villages, family farms and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-13-0.u65007	Then we vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. So we move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Please, let's vote. Thank you, Secretary of State. I find that most votes, 90 votes for and 24 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. But before that, we have our hands in the air. Dear colleague Jerkovic.
