ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38735	I can see we won't be able to make it through today without a break. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38736	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break in order to once again warn about the harmfulness of the CETA Act that we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38737	Thank you. But I don't think we can have a break on the agenda. Let's just check if I remember the Rules of Procedure well. Okay, well, since we can't find, okay, I approve of the break, so we'll check my memory later, but I'll approve of the break. Anyone else? Someone else, right? Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38738	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club to talk about violence against doctors who are re-escalating in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38739	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here, after the break, the first will speak on behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38741	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to once again point out what some MPs are thinking of voting today and this is an agreement CETA, a trade agreement with Canada. Yesterday, we had an arbitration ruling in the dispute between Croatia and Slovenia, and we can be happy that we stepped out of that arbitration, so we saved ourselves from embezzlement. But if we take the CETA deal, we'll have arbitration every day. There'll be arbitration every day. There's no way out of that arbitration. No one's gonna help save us, not Trump, not Merkel, not even know who. By agreement CETA we create a parallel system in the Republic of Croatia in any company, corporation, American, Canadian, so 42,000 branches of US companies operate in Canada, it has the right to sue Croatia, the international court for arbitration. And you know who you can complain to? No one. You don't believe me? Check the deal on the Eureko case where the corporation sued the Polish government. Poland's government had to pay the corporation 2 billion euros. 2 billion euros. Now imagine when such a corporation will say by heart Coca-Cola, Microsoft or I don't know who, sue Croatia, and then they'll have to pay 2 billion euros because you're going to let it happen today. Well, we had a worse colonial contract than this CETA we think... Have any of our people ever read what it says in that contract? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The contract literally states that everything that is not part of the agreement, all that is not stated in the agreement, is part of the agreement. Can you imagine that? And let's just say, in the agreement, there's no mention of the word "protection of nature." If there's no mention of nature protection, which means nature can be destroyed as much as it wants, that's the logic. The logic of the CETA agreement. The CETA Agreement overlooks that representatives of corporations have the right to co-determine the adoption of regulations in the Republic of Croatia, even at local level. They will determine how public and municipal services will be charged and provided. If you won't listen, you'll be sued again. You'll have arbitration again. With this contract that brings only 1% to Croatia, one thousand GDP growth, domestic production will be completely destroyed. It's already destroyed, and with this agreement, it'll be gone. We'll have to give water to the concession, without any resistance. We'll have to allow the introduction of GMOs without any resistance already 8% of the crop is GMOs, 80% of cattle feed is GMOs, shelves are full of GMOs, all branded food, all branded cosmetics are already your GMOs. Every day in Croatia 40 people die of cancer, we are after the death of 6th country cancer in the world, no one wonders where these poisons come from, and from somewhere they come from. And how much more of these poisons will be and how much longer it will take for someone in our society to realize that this law is not only anti-Croatian but also deeply anti-civilization. If you haven't studied it before, study between yourself and the New Zealand case where corporates are banned from growing food in gardens, I repeat, it is forbidden to grow food in the garden and it is prohibited to sell seeds. I remind you that the EU has already wanted to pass the law but has not so far, that it will be prohibited to grow vegetables and fruits from indigenous varieties. These are the consequences of the CETA law that will be proposed to the Croatian Parliament today at 12 o'clock for adoption. I repeat, once again, to think deeply about what we are doing by raising our hands for such a law, and I call on all MPs no matter what parties vote from, to vote against because today's rejection of the CETA agreement, we can really do something big, let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38742	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the distinguished representative of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38743	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the opportunity to speak out today without delay about the violence against doctors who were invited to the latest events that took place in Osijek, we are obliged as representatives to react in finding a final legislative framework that would protect doctors and other healthcare professionals and in performing health activities as a Constitution of guaranteed goods. Just for a little while. In Osijek, a patient in an abstinence crisis again attacked a doctor and nurse. After he was mastered, the police filed a misappropriation against the doctor and against the patient with that patient after being taken care of because he had some minor elbow injury back to the infirmary and tried again to get to the drug locker when he was re-supervised with the police. Imagine the doctor and patient reported, and not only that, the doctor's name came up in the media but the patient has initials. Of course, the police apologized for that after a few hours, because everyone reacted. But I think that suggests that doctors are in an extremely unequal position. So last year, in 2016, a study was carried out on 1624 doctors and among 100 health care directors, and there were worrying data, which is that as many as 93% of the doctors surveyed experienced some form of verbal or physical violence at work, and a physical attack on doctors occurred in 22% of health institutions. So in 77 of them, the principals said they had a doctor attacked. 27 attacks took place outside of a medical facility. 83% of doctors said they were attacked verbally, and 17% of doctors were attacked physically. So the reasons and 72% of doctors didn't report the attack. The reason is by not reporting that they often cite fear of creating additional problems, possible environmental reactions, and fear of re-attack. Therefore, precisely because of these worrying results, which indicate that a huge number of doctors in Croatia, but also health professionals, have experienced some form of violence, we will propose to this High House on behalf of the club MOST to take urgent action and measures to amend legislation that would adequately and hastily punish the perpetrators of such illegal acts prevent future similar acts and legally protect all healthcare professionals in the performance of healthcare. So we can't turn our heads anymore. It is a matter of days when the death outcome of one of the health care professionals will occur. Therefore, it is particularly necessary to intervene in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia in a way that finally solves the problem of providing adequate and necessary legal protection to the doctor and other healthcare professionals with a view to the smooth implementation of healthcare as the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of guaranteed legal goods. What do we suggest? We propose to add as a new legislative provision of the article, following Article 181 of the Penal Code of Force towards a health care professional. So, who the doctor, as the first item, who the doctor of medicine, doctor of dental medicine or other healthcare professional by force, threat, what evil or attack prevents or disables in performing his activities will be punished by a prison sentence of 6 months to 5 years. Moreover, if the criminal offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is longer or impossible to provide health care to a third party, the perpetrator will be punished by a sentence of one to eight years. It's our explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which protects health as a fundamental social provision with legal order and public morality. Health protection is particularly well protected by our Constitution and laws and is cited in Articles 32, 34, 50, 59, 65, 70 and 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 59, guarantees every society and individual the right to health care in accordance with the law. Therefore, the Penal Code further establishes a special Chapter XIX. with criminal acts against human health. The same established criminal acts and penalties shall also protect human health as a fundamental benefit against potential perpetrators. It's okay. The perpetrators in question, which the law now only knows now, are doctors and other healthcare professionals. So we can only be perpetrators in the unconscious, or misrepresentation of our activity. On the other hand, the current legal assumptions have not established the sanctioning of other persons who in any way prevent the provision of health care, i.e. it makes it impossible for a doctor and a healthcare professional to carry out his activities. So, only we can be punished, just one second, here's the end. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So, in conclusion, I believe that such a proposal for a provision would fully satisfy the form and content in the protection of the already existing Constitution guaranteed... good, good at life, health [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and health care. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38744	Thank you. What? Stanku? Your Honor, what does he have to do with this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm asking for a 10-minute break because today a bill is to be found that was due last week at the vote, the Law on concessions of maritime goods, i.e. The concession law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38747	Well, of course I'll grant you a break, but I think you could use that break that's been so far, we can do that every day for so long. But okay, I'll give you a break. It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:15 A.M.]] I'm asking you nicely not to do that in the future. It's a business possibility and it's consistent with the Rules of Procedure but it's not correct. Because all these breaks were taken in the morning anyway by something that wasn't so imagined by the institution at all. And like this, if every 10 minutes we're looking for a break, I'm afraid it also contributes to the image of our Parliament in the eyes of the people. But in any case, according to the Rules of Procedure, of course you have a right to rest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38749	We are all aware that the Law on concessions has brought numerous protests mainly after the Golden War and the fact of what was done in the Golden War, which were intended to be done but the people of Brač, Bol, the whole of Dalmatia has risen and said that it is managed by our maritime goods, and this law is not only a maritime good but a complete public good that we have in the Republic of Croatia from water, agricultural land, maritime goods, the entire wealth is essentially threatened by these laws and is intended only for those loyal ones. So for example, it was enough to be good enough with the mayor to open a company without any employee, without a kuna, Mr. Bačić knows it well, he is from Dalmatia, Mr. Zekanovic, enough to have just a company without a kuna, without an employee and get a concession. By this law, the mayor, the local sheriff, has the ability to give to manage the concession, and that concession is granted to whoever gets the right to raise a mortgage loan, that is, or the right to seek. In view of the fact that it has the right to transfer it to a third party, the right to transfer mortgages to a third party, that is to say, in Article 66(4). The people were raised by 30 associations, 30 municipalities and local self-government and towns along the coast and coast and told not this law. And the only thing they asked for was a third reading. Last week was supposed to be a vote, but to settle the situation due to protests, gentlemen of parliamentary representatives from Dalmatia, Mr. Bačić, Mr. Šipic, Mr. Zekanovic and the rest of you would like to side with the public interest this time. This law has now subsided and this is an incorrect and unfair chairman because you warned us that simply, you warned us that this was not correct, this break. Yes, a representative is obliged to stand behind the people and say what needs to be said. I ask Mr Gjurkovic of Split and the gentleman of the HNS will he allow this way to concession our good? Whether they'll be allowed to run, a loading dock in Agrokor, land transfer to a third person whom, anyone, without control of our well-being 700 hectares of our land and any other concessions we have. How about that? Will you now ask for a break and tell them to listen to the voice of the people? To hear that local self-government has the right to co-determine concessions, that these citizens who live and leave because of these concessions, their families in third countries because someone from Zagreb decides on their good place to live. That's why our islands are empty, which is why our Dalmatian Zagora is empty and the whole of the frozen and Slavonia. We are opposed loudly to tumbling in this way now that it has calmed down, when people are engaged in their tourist activities during the tourist season because there was a protest here last week and now you want to underline this vote. I would ask you once again, even the Minister of Finance was not here when this law was but was the secretary of the ministry who was not ready to answer these questions that the public was going to go into third reading, what they were looking for means of associations and local self-government, from these areas, from islands and shores. How could we have had a third reading, recently for the Arms Act, which is why, who is being protected by this law? How do you manage Croatian ports? Croatian beaches? From Dubrovnik to Zrč? To Split beaches, of course. Now we will see the coalition who will be in Split because of these concessions. We will see who attacked whom will be agreed in Milan for concessions of coalitions in Split and Split-Dalmatia County. Do not undermine the interests of our parliamentary representatives, our parliamentary representatives must only be interested and interested, interest of the public. For this reason, I urge you not to vote in this law, once again I call on you to go into third reading, and to act in the public interest, in the interest of all of us, and especially people in those areas where their interest is and where we need to put all our well-being in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38750	Thank you very much. I'm asking all MPs to let me know maybe, we've had two breaks now. One was tied to the point we discussed last half of the day, for more than half a day. The second one was tied to a point from which we discussed almost all day long. And if you think we should discuss a few more points, which we've already discussed for half a day, all day, five days, announce it now, so let's take a break again and then turn out this one, all the way you want. Here you go. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38751	Dear President, you have violated Article 238, 239, because you simply do not have the right to speak unless a parliamentary representative has injured the Rules of Procedure. If I have injured the Rules of Procedure, you cannot mention and invite parliamentary representatives when they are looking for a break, the parliamentary representative will seek a break from the Rules of Procedure when he feels the need to seek it or when he has something significant to tell his fellow MPs, and especially about this now criminal law of concessions that do not go in the interest of the public. So you don't have the right 10 minutes before I step on the stage to talk about correctness or incorrectness. It is incorrect what you have done today, which is included this item of the agenda for voting and is not in the public interest and is not in the interest of people in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38752	Comrade Bulj, I, of course, have the right to speak whenever I want and look at your little Rules of Procedure, which is one thing, and secondly, I don't see as soon as I've compromised any of your rights, however, I've invited parliamentary deputies if they want to discuss something that's been debated a great deal long and wide, to do it one more time. We can discuss it five times because unfortunately, it allows them this existing Rules of Procedure. Of course there's no injured article, 238 has nothing to do with it at all, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38759	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] We're going to vote. I've got an esteemed colleague's hand up, God of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38760	Chairman, please, on behalf of the club MOST independent list break of 10 minutes for the day-to-day political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38761	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we must give a 10-minute break, so I invite you to... Can we just take a break and say what you need to say right now or do you want 10 minutes? We can do it now. Here is colleague Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38762	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs, I asked for a break to remind us, or I could say what we are doing here in this House of Commons today. You are here today fighting against the people, against the same people who brought you here to this Assembly, against the people who were forced to come here to Mark's square, to perhaps hear their voice. Against the same people who united all our islands, shores, farmers, against the same people who believed in this country by now, and all they asked for was a third reading so they might hear their voice. Because of this violent push of laws and concessions and of CETA where there is in particular no obstacle to going to another reading, because this Agreement applies only after being ratified by all Member States, and we know very well that it has only been ratified by two Member States Denmark and Latvia, and some have even announced their ratification in 2018. So there's absolutely no obstacle to this law going into another reading. Moreover, even countries that unanimously supported this agreement in the European Parliament announced their signing in 2011. They have time to argue and they have time to listen to the voice of their people. Why don't we? Which is why we can't listen to the voice of our people exactly the one who brought us here to this assembly. The public debate on the CETA we are looking for will also contribute to making Croatian entrepreneurs, farmers and other experts and professionals prepare for the full preparation of CETA and thus grow older the intended objective of this international contract. We ask all parliamentary representatives and other stakeholders to use the democratic public debate on CETA as a place of promotion and strengthening relations between these two friendly countries. For refusing the right to a democratic debate, the MOST club will not take part in the vote on these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u38763	Please don't throw it away!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42797	Good morning colleagues and colleagues, we would start with today's work and the first item on our agenda is the proposal for a law on the safety protection of maritime ships and ports, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 143. We will now move to - Proposal for a law on the safety protection of maritime ships and ports, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 143. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered by the Parliament's dispatch. Contributions to the proposal are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42799	... This law regulates the safety protection of Croatian ports in which ships in international navigation and safety protection of Croatian state-owned ships agree. [[Specially enabled.]] The main reason for the adoption of this law is to create conditions for the direct application of Regulation No 725/2004 of the European Community and to transpose it into the Croatian legislation of Directive 2005/65 of the European Community. Namely, by a applicable law adopted before Croatia's accession to the EU, Regulation 725/2004 has been transposed into the text of the law, and now it is necessary to reshape the text of the law in a way that creates the conditions for the direct application of the Regulation. Further coordination with Directive 2005/65 is also carried out, for example, by introducing a liaison person appointed by the maritime minister and which is the main task of coordinating communication with the European Commission and other EU Member States on the issue of security protection. The liaison person shall also provide the European Commission with a list of ports to which this law applies and shall report any amendments and additions thereto. This law applies to Croatian ports in which passenger ships in international navigation and freight ships of 500 gross registered tonnes and larger in international navigation, to ports to which passenger ships in national navigation agree, the law applies only if such ships go more than 20 nautical miles from the coast, to which persons can safely approach, but this is not the case in Croatia. In accordance with this law, the port administration, i.e. the authorising officer of the special purpose concession, shall be responsible for the safe protection of the port, and this shall primarily relate to the design of the port’s assessment and safety protection plan, i.e. the port’s operational area and, for example, the measures set out in the safety protection plan. Each port, i.e. port operational area as di port, to which this law applies, which is located in the RH 33 ports and within 54 port operational areas, must have an assessment of the port's security protection. On the basis of the results of the assessment, the port security plan shall be drawn up setting out detailed security measures, monitoring their application and taking corrective measures where necessary. Obligations to make assessments and plans of port security protection, not new, and such obligation also became subject to the applicable 2009 law, with amendments from 2012. Luke has already made estimates and plans and will not have to make new ones until the expiry of the valid ones. The design of port security plans and assessments has been carried out so far by recognised port security organisations, and this law has elaborated the conditions for recognised organisations to meet. At this point in Croatia we have 3 recognised port security organisations, and it can be said that the indicative number of 3 to 4 recognised organisations would meet all the requirements of Croatian ports. The verification of whether recognised port security organisations under the conditions under this law shall be carried out by a committee appointed by a maritime minister, consisting of 3 representatives of the Ministry and 2 representatives of the Ministry of Interior. Based on the committee's opinion, the ministry has authorized a recognised organisation. Part of the law relating to the safety protection of ships, as well as the part relating to the safety protection of ships of Croatian state belonging to pirate attacks and armed robbery, has no significant substantive changes other than calling for a direct objection to the Regulation. This law applies to passenger ships in international navigation. Passenger ships in national navigation shall only be used if such ships distance more than 20 nautical miles from the coast to which persons in danger can safely access and such ships do not have us. Next, at this time, we have a total of 43 Croatian ships, to which this law applies, or measures of security protection prescribed by it. The activities of the statute certification regarding the safety protection of Croatian ships are carried out by the Croatian Register of Ships, which have been checked by the Law on the Croatian Register of Ships. Infringements shall determine the infringements of certain provisions of this law, as a first-degree maritime offence decided by port captains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42800	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42801	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My dear secretary, this is a directive to exclude... The EU and alignment with the legislation on the security of the protection of ports and our ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see here, there's a change, so it's gonna need to become a person for a relationship. Can you tell me how much these costs are? Who pays these costs for those people who are for a relationship? Can you say that 2, 3 companies, as you said, are legal persons for security and protection, in what way they are chosen, by which criteria for the protection of ports and ships? In Croatia you listed only 2.3 that there are such legal entities. However, here is much more important our port, the use of ports, and that is, since your ministry, the Law on Maritime Goods and Ports, we know that we have a number of concession problems, we do not have a certain limit of maritime goods that hinders the development of local self-government, streams and coasts, where people cannot do their own, where the leaders of these self-government cannot develop their projects without the borders of maritime goods. What did you do about it? This is much more important than just copying the Law of the European Community and harmonising with directives that, as you say, do not change anything but we have a few more liaison employees, otherwise the harmonisation of the 2009 law already existing. It is very important for the maritime good, the Law on concessions you know that in Split-Dalmatia County we have numerous ports and local and county port administrations are in power, that it is not transparent, it is not clear but of that local self-government has no connection. Your responsibility is enormous and your ministry of maritime well-being, so would you please tell the public what with the maritime good in the Republic of Croatia... in the interest of the people and the general good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42802	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42803	...the costs for the liaison staff are not available because those persons will be inside the ministry, hence no additional for them will be opened either by business or by costs. And as far as maritime goods are concerned, this is a new Law on Maritime Goodness that will regulate all these things that were being asked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42804	I'm asking you to move on, so would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we go to the debate, first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a distinguished representative, Branko Bacic, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42805	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, which harmonizes our legislation in part of the maritime sector with EU directives from 2004 and 2005. When we talk about this harmonisation, with EU legislation, then I should say that the first law defining the security protection of ports and ships was passed in 2004, later the law was put out of force because a new law was made in 2009, as part of full compliance with the EU acquis, then we changed it further in this House in 2012. Otherwise, the need for the security protection of ports and ships was created as a result of those events in New York on 11 September 2001 and when it was decided that all forms of traffic, especially those that either sail or fly in international navigation or international air traffic or international road traffic, must meet more security conditions than those of the same traffic that sail in national or national or national navigation. In that sense, then in 2004, a legislative basis was created by which it was already going into special measures relating to the safety of Croatian ports and Croatian ships, as well as all international ports around the world and ships sailing in international navigation and exceeding 5 gross tonnes. From 2004 to 2009, when a new law was passed, the number of Croatian ports made internationally important an assessment of security protection and security plans and did so, as the authorised organisations wrote in this law, recognised organisations which were therefore certified by the ministry as the State Secretary had just said. In Croatia, 33 ports have made their own plans, i.e. an assessment of security protection and security plans. And it was also made for ships of Croatian shipmen sailing in international navigation, which are winding the Croatian flag. It seems to me that at this point, 43 ships have been certified in this way. This amendment of the law further harmonizes with the same directives that we did not agree to until the end before joining the EU. In this respect, one of the most important amendments to this law concerns the authorised person who is in charge of these matters and who then cooperates with EU bodies and who is precisely designated and responsible for the implementation of this law in each port. Of course, this law provides for all those ports certified to make a clear contribution to their competitiveness on the one hand, but on the other hand, ships that sail in international navigation, and would not implement the provisions of this law, would not have made their own security plans, would not have been able to enter those ports that have done so and which, under this Regulation, are obliged to do so. This, therefore, is something that we must bring from one side, but on the other hand, we are clearly allowing it to sail into our ports, and on the other hand, we are allowing our ships to sail to other ports which are also obliged to implement this law, i.e. an appropriate regulation. And this is about us in the Croatian Democratic Community club absolutely acceptable and necessary. Thus, by proposing this law, the government has carried out its obligation to propose this law to the Croatian law in part of the maritime sector, in part of the safety of navigation. Since there are representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, there is a State Secretary of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Ministry, we have heard a few words from colleagues from Bulja who refer to the maritime well-being. I would just say a few words on this subject, because it is again in a certain way connected if we widely interpret this law, because it is a security protection port and not only a public transport port, not only a port managed by the Port Authority, but a port managed by and authorised concessionaire, which ports are open to public transport and international importance. In that context, I would ask the Ministry to refer the first reading of the Law on the Sea Good as soon as possible to the Government. We mentioned the Law on the Sea Good already on several occasions. We held in this House and discussed the Bill Proposal that was then done by the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club as an opposition club in 2014. And I believe that given the many new circumstances that occur in the maritime good compared to the original law that was passed in 2003, and later, on several occasions, changed, that all the conditions for resolving the issue of concessioning of maritime goods and otherwise the Law on the Sea Good have matured. Why? Because of our assessment that further decentralisation is needed in Croatia today, both functional and financial. Not only is the legislation relating to the Law on, on maritime well-being, but it is otherwise the intention of this government to move towards further decentralisation as I say both functional and fiscal. I'd still... in this context of the obligation and the roof law on concessions, when I talk about concessions in relation to the concession of maritime goods, and if we are talking about the Law on concessions, then it should be said that he, that the debate with the interested public was held last February and March. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So last year. That the whole interested public had been able to comment through the procedure provided for by law and a number of comments were made through this debate in that law. That then there was a crisis, a parliamentary crisis, that there were new elections. After the new elections, the government re-emerged with the Law on concessions through first reading. We had that first reading in February of this year. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, which is a resolute finance ministry at the level of the government, its professional bodies, coordination, the Uzega Office was also involved in this by ministers coming from the Most quota at that time. Therefore, they also agreed to the law. That law is discussed in the first reading. All the comments and suggestions in that first reading are, the government has considered them and sent them to the Parliament through the final draft of the law. The final draft of the law has been given some amendments both by the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the Croatian Parliament and by the MPs. We heard the interested public and once again through the evidence of the law itself. Today, according to the voting plan, there will be a vote on this and working against the motions of representatives from the MOST club to go to third reading. As far as the procedure is concerned, the law can be said more than usual by democratic procedure, a democratic debate, and today the government will likely show itself primarily to the conclusion of the Most, and on the other hand, amendments to the debate itself. Or let me finish. I go back to what's important to this law. First of all, it would be good to arrange the ports to pass the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is one thing. The second thing, because of the concession of beaches, is the port to pass the same law. And the third thing, this law, which is most important and what I want to talk about, and what I'm talking about and on behalf of the club, is that this law is necessary, necessary, it significantly increases the safety of both ports and the safety of ships, especially in that part of the pirates and pirates on our ships, this law allows these ships to be boarded by persons with arms in order to be further secure and safeguarded in those tanks and in areas, in the world and in the open sea where such attacks occur in order to ensure that our ships of Croatian shipowners, Croatian shipowners, can then be further competitive on the world market, and precisely in those areas of our ships, and we are aware that they were also victims of these same attacks. Therefore, this law needs to be passed in order to help our ports, our port system, and our shipmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42806	Thank you. Here's your exposure. It's caused a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So in your presentation on the subject of this law, you mentioned something that is extremely important, which is the Law on the Sea Good. Indeed, first and foremost, we have the 2003 law and you know as well as I do that the Law on Maritime Good has, twice, passed almost the whole procedure, which public debates, which is all but not come to this Assembly. And I'm sure the role of all of us is to protect the public interest. There is no greater public interest than the interests of maritime good, the use of maritime goods, Croatia as a maritime land, indeed has this obligation and what I can actually use through this replica for you and tell the importance and importance of such a law. When such a law is passed, when we define a series of things that we have a problem with, I think some things will open up and see what we're talking about. We're talking about a huge illegal construction that happened on the marine good, and today it's being used here, to make it happen. I'm sure in our budget it would be a lot more resources than we have now. Look at our islands. We allowed on the islands and allowed the buildings to be legalized through legalization. What in terms of tourism on islands, these buildings are also used for tourist purposes. There are pencils in front of them. Calls that are for 10 bonds, for 12 bonds, they're all out of the system. They don't pay anything for that use either, it's unconcessed. What I'm using is equally an opportunity, you were in the debate talking about this law, so I'm taking the opportunity, what's urgent and what the really resolute ministry should be, it's such a law. We need him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42808	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42809	And thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I said in my presentation the need to keep the Law on the Sea Good, primarily encouraged by the break of MP Most. Well then I took advantage of the opportunity, since it is somewhere touching this law with the Law of Good and Seaports, that it is necessary, as soon as possible, to bring that law into the House. This law, the new Law on Maritime Goods, which has been in force since 2003 with 6 or 7 amendments to laws or additions, which have meanwhile been passed in those 14 years. In those governments by 2011, the ministry wrote three bill proposals, which did not come to the Parliament, the government where you were, was also preparing a law that was not discussed in the Parliament. We at the club as an opposition, the HDZ Club wrote a law that we discussed, which went significantly towards centralization, decentralisation of maritime good governance, in a way that we lowered the level of decision-making of concession, from state to county, county to cities and municipalities. In doing so, it should be noted that all units of local self-government are not capacitated to be able to carry out quality concessions, significant projects on the maritime good. I will not say about beaches and smaller concessions in financial terms, but those real and large marine-good projects, that it should be quite dressed and prepared for such a procedure, since concessioning is an extremely demanding job and procedure. As for illegal construction, you know that by law passed in 2011 then later when you changed it, in 2011, we did not allow legalisation, general legalisation on maritime goods, but we allowed units of local self-government to, and such a small bridge, which you said, which are on the coast, to legalise them, but before that, it is necessary to change the spatial plans, urban planning arrangements, in order to preserve individual objects, and those who cannot then collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42810	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42811	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bačić, I agree that there have been two readings, because the fact that the public is such a Gold War and events around the Golden War, and we are all witnesses of that, we are the whole public, especially the people of the coast and the island, which was interested, is evident that the maritime good was not managed. The golden war is just the tip of the ice santa, because the fact that the way to give concessions is bad. The fact is that it's been 2, i.e. 1 reading, which was the first reading, but then there's the Golden War, and it's visible what's going on. We have this article, which is problematic, that means giving concessions the way it was given. It's enough to have a company, open it without a kuna, just name some investments, it'd be good to check out how much these investments are in the competition of the companies that got the management of the concessions, we don't know anything, it's simply given to whoever it wants, however you want, but it can be seen from Dubrovnik, you know it well, as I said, up to Zrč. The golden war is just the tip of the ice dream. It is very important that maritime good, local self-government, cannot affect anything, not development, not their projects, not plans, not candidate for European funds, not the funds of the ministries, because they have no limit to maritime goods. While it is normal to botanize in Makarska 3 km, while the mouth of the river Zrnovnica is botanized, it is not arranged under cover of order. Even spatial plans are not respected, where these activities are also done in local self-government. This is the problem of the county, local self-government cannot achieve their projects and plans, local leaders along with the minister nothing... And we have to put this law into third reading because of these people to get involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter now whether the first reading was, second reading, but it's important, if we could talk about the Arms Act for the first time, to include that in a brief public debate even more people are involved because people are disappointed in these areas, you know very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42812	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, it's a little two minutes for all of what you'd like to answer this question of yours. So the first thing, if you're talking about a problem or an affair, whatever we want to call the Golden War Bol on Brač, is because such a concession that as you well know, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure found out that it was not in accordance with the law or with the Law on concessioning of maritime goods, was created under the Law on the Sea Good. And this whole procedure is illegal, which the Ministry destroyed under the Law on the Sea Good, not under the Law on concessions. If he was so good, by whose taste the Treaty Act would again have been, we County, a concession of the Golden War according to the Law on the Sea Good. So priority is not to repeat, not to repeat, but to meet the citizens of Bol, Brač, my Korčula, any part of the coastal Croatia, so that they will directly cross their municipal city councils, not through the county assembly, although the county assembly is also a representative body of Bolana, Bracan and my Korčulana Dubrovnik-Neretva County and its assembly. But if we go lower to further decentralisation so that we can allow my Korčulans to participate more in the concession of any salary on the island of Korčula it is necessary to amend the Law on the Sea Good. So he's the lex specialis law of this concession law that you're talking about, that I don't know how good it is, that I don't know by whose taste it is, and all these citizens who've been involved in its amendment and the third reading, again, if we don't change the Law on the Sea Good, we're concessioning the maritime well-being of that law that I think needs to be changed, that's what I've said three times, and that's the Law on Marine Good. And I'm asking the Ministry to get to the Parliament as soon as possible with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42814	Thank you. I've allowed most of what my colleague Bulj said and most of what you said, but I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject. The topic is the safety protection of maritime ships and ports, not the Law on concessions, not Bol etc. Okay? The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42815	Your Honor, Mr. President. No matter what you've warned us, I also need to take a little bit off the subject because the topics are very related. So it's about the ports, it's about the ships. Luke's also in the concession. And here I would ask my colleague Bačić a question from his colleague Bulj earlier pointed out as the biggest concern of concessions, that it could be with a company that was just founded without employees looking for concessions. As far as I know who gives concessions, it's only economic interest. It will tomorrow be the unit of local self-government, today it is the unit of regional self-government, or a business plan that must be respected, and that story stops. So there's no other interest than the economic interest of whoever gives, that the local community gets money or that it gets money from regional self-government. How will some young Bolski or I don't know Korčulan or Sibenik entrepreneur start up an entrepreneur who's just starting a company be able to get a concession? How can he even begin to work and function if he is not allowed to get a concession with the company he has just founded? This is one practice that I have little to admit to the strangest. In public procurement, too, and in all possible purchases, we also have a situation to look for references. You need to do a hundred jobs that have a certain value. In the end, young firms, new companies start up companies they just can't get into that closed circle of business. I think this is the end of a population, but it's one subject that's misrepresented to the public. And I'm going to say this, there's a lot of utility companies, small local self-governments who are concessionaries and who are doing this job very badly because it's only about political entanglement of people where a private man would do business with three times fewer people and three times better. So here's the truth somewhere in between. You should listen to local self-government, local community, but I think you should also give opportunities to new young entrepreneurs because they simply don't have a chance to get into work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42816	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Zekanovic. I have already said this before, so maritime well-being, and then the beaches are also concentrated on the basis of a government regulation that has laid down five basic criteria, and I think these criteria are very well laid down, which is, above all, that this must be in line with spatial plans, urban planning, that more points and advantages are given to one who has more investment, which offers most of the fixed payment fee and variable part, that it is the number of employees and that it is about protecting the environment. Therefore, whoever meets the best criteria of these five criteria gets to use marine well-being. However, what is fundamentally presented here is not defining the criteria you were talking about but the fundamental observation here is that, in the concession of such important areas for certain units of local self-government and on the islands, and also on the coast, it is not enough for local self-government to participate, but that it is done by regional self-government on its behalf and that it is not good because those most connected do not decide sufficiently. To avoid this, it is necessary to amend the Law on Maritime Goodness which will prescribe what concessionaries states, which county, which city, which municipalities, what spaces, how long and what powers are units of local self-government in concessioning maritime goods. And it is a dispute that is happening in Croatia these days, and it is based on the fact that the Assembly is discussing the Law on concessions, so the law was convenient that it can come out in public with this example if it has citizens, who clearly point out in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42818	Thank you. The next one will speak to SDP's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42819	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am, although I am not your option, but I will listen to you as Vice-President and I will not comment on anything or discuss on the subject of concessions that were not really the subject of this debate, but I also see that all this has been discussed, which the secretary of the ministry has spoken about has not triggered any replicas on the same subject, and I will not give any of my views, or to convey what is the harmonisation with the judiciary, or legislation and the legal property of the EU. I'll just say that the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42820	Thank you very much, especially for the briefness. But yet she challenged the replica of the distinguished representative Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42821	Comrade Babic, I agree that the security of a port that is only in compliance with EU rules is security and protection, that we have some changes on security where we have one person who is essentially a link or some persons who are connected to the European Commission in the event of a security threat. So this law essentially only expands from 2009, only with directives and harmonisations that are already in the EU. As far as maritime goods are concerned, you need to know that maritime well-being and ports, that we don't have the limit of maritime good, that we have poor port management, that we have port administrations, that we have port administrations mostly of the county where it's an ATM. It means local administration nothing, so it's all connected. And this security law is just harmonising that directives and regulations already exist in the EU. And it's very connected this story of the concession and that's why it offered me a moment before that break to meet this bad concession law, to go into third reading as requested and as many citizens, associations, local self-government leaders asked to go to third reading of the concession law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42822	The answer of the esteemed representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42823	My colleague I absolutely understand the things you warn about but here I will remind you, the same fact and things, good practice in the Croatian Parliament that opposition can also write legal proposals if we see that the ruling does not do it well. And we can get our heads together and make some legal proposal that we're going to make in the parliamentary procedure and give ourselves an initiative to fix things that aren't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42824	Thank you very much. I'm now moving on to an individual debate and the first to appear is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. My colleague Bulj, have you heard from you for an individual discussion?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42825	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have today means law, i.e. harmonisation of the Port Safety Act and our ships. It is a harmonisation in substance with European directives and already existing laws. This law was already passed in 2009, there are some changes. I asked this and a question earlier on the replica of State Secretary Mihotic that the cost of how much will be increased and who will pay for the costs of all these changes and regarding the relationship, means the person who will be the link between these all. However, I was and warned of what is very important because the ports are located on the maritime good. So we have a competent state where ports have county ports, we have smaller ports and ports on maritime goods which means local self-government manages but is the fact that this is a maritime good fortune, the fact that this is a maritime good that needs to be served by local administration and through the security of the ports but of course through the implementation of the new law, i.e. through the implementation of the new law. The new Law on Maritime Goods because it is the fact that we have problems and port management, that the people of the island and the coast are not satisfied and the leaders of local self-government and people and, above all, the maritime good is in your portfolio. And it's a very important segment because we know that we have great potential on the Adriatic and tourism and capacity. And it is sad that today, in many local self-governments, we have no limit to maritime goods where people and numerous local self-governments from these areas and these cities would like to have ports and other projects in the interest of their community. I can also list certain cities in which I have personally been in contact with people, leaders, hindering the development of these environments as well as tourism and other branches of these local self-governments. And the fact is that maritime goods and ports must be in the public interest and certainly not a group headed by the county and this is the best and most obvious example is the Split-Dalmatia County where it is visible that the vast space of our maritime well-being which includes the ports to be used and in fact that our money leaks by some calculations on the maritime good somewhere around 2 billion kuna. Only in Split-Dalmatia County goes to the wind annually as young people leave these areas. Once again, that you as a competent ministry as you reacted, after the citizens reacted, I then as a parliamentary representative and later you also made a decision to annul the concession in the Golden War that as soon as you changed the Law on the Sea Good, you also instructed the county to.... the border of maritime good, to serve maritime good in the public interest of these areas, and not in the interest of individuals who do what they want, to concreteise, to use as they wish the maritime well-being and ports among other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42826	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of distinguished representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. She's not here. He's losing his right to debate. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, missing, losing his right to debate. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42827	Now we have two laws, which we discussed today. This is the proposal of the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 143. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports and any objections and suggestions will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. I find it unanimous, with 96 votes in favour, to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42828	Now we would move to the next point, that is: - Proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, material delivered to you in boxes, on the occasion of discussions on this item of the agenda, apply to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law, were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system in and the social partnership. You received their reports at the session, would the proposing's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the renowned State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Katarina Ivankovic-Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42829	Dear MPs and MPs, we have yet another law this week coming from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, and I believe that we will evaluate it all together in a high consensus like the previous two were this week, which is the Law on the transfer of pension rights. By joining the EU's Republic of Croatia and opening up opportunities for the employment of Croatian citizens in EU bodies, it has shown the need to regulate the possibility of transferring pension rights to ensure the continuity of social security of such insurance companies. This is about officials, or members of contract and temporary staff, or officials who spent part of their lives in pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia and one part in pension insurance and institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the EU. These are, for example, officials in the European Commission or in some specialised agencies, also officials in the European Parliament, but we must keep in mind not euro-parliamentarians, they are defined by other law, and employees in all other eu-agencies. The rights and obligations of the employment relationship as well as the pension insurance of officials, temporary staff members or members of contract staff, i.e. officials, are regulated by two regulations, one of '68. One year, one year from 2008. The basis of these provisions was drawn up, i.e. the European Commission has also adopted a Staff Regulations where the right to retirement can be exercised by an official or an official who has completed 10 years of insurance on jobs in EU bodies. If he works less than 10 years, he can exercise some other rights, depending of course on the fulfillment of the conditions. In order to ensure that an official who has completed part of his working life in the Republic of Croatia and a part of the EU institutions does not lose his rights, it should be possible to transfer his pension rights from one pension system to another. And that's the foundation of this law. In this way, they will be able to exercise the right to retire in one system with the transfer of rights from another system. This will ensure an adequate level of law based on all periods of insurance. Following all of this, this law regulates the matter of the transfer of pension rights from compulsory pension insurance to Generational solidarity as well as pension rights from a capitalised system or capitalised contribution to the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds in the Republic of Croatia, before employment in EU bodies, into pension insurance applicable to EU officials and officials, as well as the transfer of pension rights from the EU to our pension insurance system after termination of employment in EU bodies. Staff Regulations. The main issues covered by this law are the status of insurance workers passing from Croatian pension insurance to EU pension insurance, based on employment in EU bodies. Next, the status of members of compulsory pension funds passing from Croatia's capitalised pension insurance to EU pension insurance based on employment in the EU, then the status of insurance workers transferring from EU pension insurance to Croatia's mandatory pension insurance after the termination of employment in EU bodies. The whole process of transposing these rights is the same as the transfer and calculation of those rights, then the bodies participating in the transfer of pension rights, the way pension rights transferred from the EU system to the Republic of Croatia, and keeping records of the pension rights transferred. This law actually provides for preconditions for the exercise of pension insurance rights to persons who, by their work, have completed a large part of the period or part of the period of insurance in the pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia under the rules of the Republic of Croatia and part of the work in EU bodies. The draft proposal for this law was on e-consultation from 13 January 2017 to 28 January 2017, there were no objections to it, both during the public debate and during all communications on this law, this law is absolutely undeniable in any aspect. Both of which is crucial, in fact, we have now for the first time regulated those rights that our people who work in EU bodies have achieved since 2013. It applies to all of them. So, all those who have gone to work in the EU bodies since 1 July 2013 and, in fact, in one clear and unequivocal way, edits this matter, it has no cost in terms of cost, the current cost for the state budget. We can even say not even in any longer period are expected and some earthquakes or major releases cannot occur in the context of their pensions that will be issued by this segment they have worked in EU bodies. We therefore propose that you adopt this law, that we refer it to a second reading and, in fact, for the first time, arrange for the transfer of rights that our fellow citizens have achieved through work in EU bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42830	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42831	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. Perhaps it would have been easier to say at first that this law should have been passed during the Kukuriku coalition, so by 1.7.2014 when we joined the EU and that these rights had already been regulated. But I'll just mention some nomotechnical stuff to you in these two minutes as far as possible about the law itself as I've seen reading it. Therefore, Article 3 laying down the meaning of the concepts used in the proposed legal text in point 10 instead of the wording "EU system, pension insurance system and the EU" suggests only the text of the EU system, the pension insurance system of the EU body and for the reasons you further state under point 11 of the EU institutions, bodies, offices, EU agencies employing officials and temporary or contract staff. In relation to the introduction and the arguments, there is still an observation related to page 3 where the words “without diminishing ” should be deleted, then the text would actually also simply delete that part without a reduction. That's what I'm saying because it's listed again in the law itself, and twice is actually mentioned as such. Furthermore, in that same part, we propose to delete the text given that the European Regulation explicitly prohibits double insurance, i.e. to apply the principle of coverage of only one country's legislation insurance and payment of insurance contributions only in one country. This provision enables, in fact, the return of contributions in case of overlapping of insurance. I think it is important to stress this and I think it would be good to fix it clean because of the nomotechnics, and in agreement with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which I have actually suggested in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42832	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be spoken by the distinguished representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42833	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is the draft law on the transfer of pension rights. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill as this bill harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. EU membership has opened up the possibility of hiring citizens of the Republic of Croatia in EU bodies, thus showing the need to regulate the possibility of transposing pension rights in order to ensure the continuity of rights from the social security system. Following this proposal, the matter of the transfer of compulsory pension rights to the Republic of Croatia prior to the employment of EU institutions in pension insurance applicable to officials, EU officials and the transfer of pension rights from EU pension insurance to the pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia following termination of employment in EU bodies is regulated. This will give rise to the right to retire in one system with an adequate level of law given the years of employment. Employment and rights from the social security system of persons employed in EU bodies has been governed by the first EC Regulation of 1968 and the last time has been completed by the EU Regulation of 2013 laying down rules for the employment of officials and officials which obliges Member States to make up for pension contributions paid in advance of employment in EU bodies by staff employed in those bodies. The method of calculating the pension rights applicable is transferred from the national system to the EU pension system has been left to select the Member States, while the method of calculating the pension rights transferred from the EU system to the national pension system after the termination of employment in EU bodies is prescribed by the Staff Regulations which form an integral part of this Regulation. In addition to the method of calculating the value of pension rights transferred from pension insurance and the EU to Croatia in compulsory pension insurance, the procedure for the transfer of pension rights of bodies participating in the transfer process is also determined by this legislative proposal, the way in which pension rights transferred from the EU system and the calculation of the values of those rights in order to exercise pension rights in the Republic of Croatia as well as the way in which the records of transferred pension rights are kept. This is why I think that we should accept this bill precisely because of our insurance companies that I am convinced of increasingly over the coming years in the EU system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42834	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42835	Dear colleague Karlic, this question is addressed to you, or to the promoter. This law that we will soon adopt for Croatia means financial obligations. I have not heard about how much, in fact, projections are in general, how many people are currently working in EU bodies and what are the projections for the next period? It's mostly about the population margin, we still don't have a pensioner, but here, just to feel a little bit how much in the next period, next year, will cost the Croatian budget. And maybe even this problem that hasn't been mentioned, what if someone was working, making a pension out of several states, how will that problem be solved? This is a question for you, or the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42836	Proposer, of course he can't answer you, but he will try to respect the representative Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42837	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic. So here's the question that I have to admit I don't know the full answer, but what's important is that now, this year and in the first years, there will be no greater financial burden for the pension and for the Ministry of Finance, and in the coming years, of course, we expect as many Croatian citizens who will work in the EU system, in this area and so on, I am convinced that the ministry will make projections if it is a burden, but I am sure that it will work very quickly from the EU in the Croatian system, so that will then come the pension rights and financial resources into the system, the pension system of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42838	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives and HSU, the next one will be spoken by the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42839	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the first time that we have the harmonisation of one law with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe and the Staff Regulations, which means that we will not bring our laws in line only with the directives, but also with other EU acts, and it is, this bill regulates something in a completely different way than the current practice of relations, in agreements on the social rights of citizens between EU countries. And that's logical because the EU, maintains it and does not have that legal legitimacy so that social agreements can be concluded with a particular country, but it handles regulations, regulations, so to its regulatory acts. Why is this different? So let's just say so far, pensions, based on work in different countries, have enjoyed the principle of proportionality, with only one country having to achieve the right, that minimum number of years to make a pension, so that in all other countries where someone worked, the right to retire for the number of years someone worked in a country. This is the first time something else has been arranged. There is no system of proportionality, it is only in acting calculated, but it is not in the original sense that I am still receiving a pension from different countries. Here, for example, we have a Croatian citizen who, or a citizen who will go to work as an official, official in the European Parliament or the European Council or any agency, has here 15 years of internship, so she is profiled, with this, with requests from the European Council, code, or according to the Staff Regulations, she will make a request to which from the Croatian Pension Insurance Fund, from the first pillar, and from the second pillar, therefore from capitalised savings, if so, and will be bonds of payment of the second pillar, to which money will be transferred to the European Fund, the joint fund. And what happens next? If a person is lucky enough to work for 10 years or more or over 10 years, he will exercise his right to so on. a European pension, to which it will be added, if it does not want to work, to which it will be added and what it has achieved here, will have one single pension. So he won't have a pension from multiple sources. If he wants to continue working in Croatia, then he can transfer all the money that is capitalised there to the Croatian pension system again. So it's a brand-new way of determining a single European pension, to call it that. Of course, I have no objection to this law, except for the details spoken by my colleague Babic, of course we have a problem and now with those who went to work in 2013 and we did not have this law, we are likely to be able to regulate all their rights with the same effect. What's more important to say here, this law is not completely solved. So, we must, in an adequate way, amend the Pension Insurance Act, allow such payments, and in an appropriate way, we must amend the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, because there are no such cases for such payments. So when you do laws, this in itself proves that editing the legal framework, one business that is going on and changing in accordance with circumstances, with time, with situations, therefore, we never make one law for all time, but we have to build it up, fertilize it, go forward, regulate new moments. I don't have much to say here about the content of the law, because he's nomotechnically correct, he's been in public debate, and social partners had the right to comment. They did not have too much interest because they did not consider it to be a large number of members or trade unions, nor did employers show much interest, but I have reason to believe that the law is right, that it was in public debate, that there were no objections, that the social partners also did not have any objections, therefore we can peacefully adopt this law and the Independent Representatives' Club and HSU will support this law by saying once again that we will have to solve these problems of additional regulation in the PSO and in the Pension Funds Act. There's so much, it's worth a cut, you don't have to waste your energy for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42840	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42841	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrelja. I thought when you talked about the transfer of beneficiaries' funds from pension contributions to the Peace Fund of the Republic of Croatia that you would further relate to this and say that by this law with the horizon that he is lex specialis to enable the purchase of internships because these are large funds, and this law could enable this because of that pension insurance law you know that this is no longer possible. But I need you to think about this. And then you said, I'm referring to Mr. Zekanovic who asked what the cost would be for the Republic of Croatia's budget. It clearly stands in the law in the light of how much I know there is no cost to the Republic of Croatia's budget at this point. But speaking of these simulations that he was talking about, it's very difficult because we don't know the number of users, we don't really know their basis in EU bodies, and we don't know how many contributions were paid through it. But this should be considered because some EU members have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42842	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42843	I don't think there's any possibility here that we should consider or the purchase of an internship or the purchase of a pension. Every insurance company here has a right to choose. It would therefore be best for him to become a European pensioner after ten years of working in the EU institutions. If it is small, it will be the first group after ten years of work that will really be European pensioners with unique pensions. Whether it's enough or not, it's another thing, whether it's going to work or not again. I don't think we need to predict some hybrids that have proven to be more successful. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm glad you mentioned I didn't purposely want to talk about money because it's not really the problem of this law, it's the problem of possibly budgeting because the budget is going to require money, and we don't know how many of these people are going to be at this point. We can know about how many of these people, but that money is not irrevocably lost, that money if we pay someone and if that money is not returned, the pension will be received from another source, but it is something that has been paying for years the only thing that our system of savings is, rather, generational solidarity in the majority, or savings in this second part of the second pension column, which is about individual capitalised savings. So that would correspond primarily to the second pillar and there is no burden on the budget. For the budget, there is only a burden on the payment of contributions from the first pension pillar and will have to be done so. I hope it won't be shocking for the budget, that suddenly two thousand people will get a job, although I would like them to get two thousand people a job in the EU institutions because it means better pay for them and perhaps their better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42844	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42845	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state. I will make up for what Mr Karlic said on behalf of the HDZ Club and what you were saying at the beginning, and it is good to repeat that it is a matter of regulating the transfer of these pension rights in the EU pension insurance system acquired in the mandatory pension insurance system, as well as opportunities for employees in this case EU officials and officials who can choose to transfer their funding from pension insurance to the EU or to the EU system and vice versa from the EU to the Republic of Croatia. So it's about insurance, it's about citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose rights are acquired. Unlike the existence of the coordination of the social security system between the EU Member States, on the basis of these relevant regulations, which Mr Karlic spoke of in 1968, including 2008 and this Staff Regulations, they have the right to do so. The EU does not coordinate its social security system with Member States' systems and that is correct, so let's say that the pension system is not applied at all because of the principle of assimilation of legal facts in relations between EU institutions and Member States. Now we can have different opinions about it, but legally we can't change the situation, and that's true. This regulation, meaning this law, can derivate the provisions and principles of domestic law in pension insurance, so it can derogate them because it is a lex specialis that I was talking about in relation to this law. But what I would like to say, and Mr Hrelja also touched, and this is also the law, and this is the article 10th method of calculating the transfer of values, means the correction factor of 0.7 serves to correct the transfer value from compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity, which would actually mean that if the consumer from the Republic of Croatia transferred those funds to the EU pension system, it would mean that 70% of their assets could be transferred to the EU system while 30% would be maintained on behalf of solidarity. Now, the fact is, in Croatia, there are no more training institutions in our pension insurance system. But it would be good to think about it as I told Mr. Hrelja, let's say in Spain it's possible. So the funds that Spanish officials or officials working in EU bodies can buy in their national legislation for that effective part of the EU, buy some of the internships in Spain, which perhaps we too could consider. As for this part of what I was saying about the 0.7% correction factor, there are also EU member states that have a slightly more restrictive position, let's say the Czech Republic has 0.6. According to the pension system, EU institutions would recalculate the money they would receive from Croatia according to their rules, according to the values of years of internships in EU institutions. I think you can think about it and that it could, that it could be regulated by this law. This is what I wanted to say in this first reading, suggest that we think about it until the second reading with these nomotechnical changes, and I think it would be good and that it would actually benefit users, Croatian citizens who have achieved their rights in EU bodies and I say it is good, because you have presented it. But I will repeat, this law was to be passed by 1.7.2013 during the Kukurik coalition, which would be more useful and better, so far we would have regulated certain things. I may mention something else, not only about this Law on the transfer of pension rights but also about the indulging, any indulging in the Pension Insurance Act, which may and may not only be brought about by political will, it can sometimes create problems for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, because you know that any such thing and any change in the law is affecting, in fact, that informational part of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which, due to certain things that can happen in the business process itself, is primarily related to non-performing payments, which at this point in the Republic is about 111 million kuna, which is not a small amount. So this is one decent amount, so it is always good to keep an eye on such things in agreement with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which can always make good and useful remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42846	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42847	Dear counterpart Babić, I am grateful that you have focused attention on article 10. So I went to go over what it says here, OK, we should do one example of the calculation and how much it's worth because it really has to be included in here, this is about the last pay. It means that the current situation is put first. So not as it's been paid through, I don't know 10 years ago, so it's multiplying by interest, but it all comes down to the last year and the current value of the pension, which means that all the adjustments are included, etc. And the only thing that intrigued me here, I think that's OK, now, whether that 0.7 factor is enough or not, that should show. But something else intrigued me because it turns out that both the first and second pillars will be paid out of the state budget, and possibly the state budget or the Croatian Pension Insurance Office will seek through REGOS from compulsory pension funds because this article shows that the same treatment is made in the same way as the payments that are converted into personal, payment into a mandatory pension fund that turns into their own personal points that have value. So, there's probably a solution here, but I think we're going to have to really do that and the Pension Fund Act predicts who's making the request, who's getting paid these money, that kind of money, and a lot of other details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42848	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42849	Well, yeah, the simulations of the calculation, we said it's hard to know without the number of users of their base, actually the periods they spent there. What you may be saying is not the same thing, let's say the coefficient for the pension calculations relative to what I was saying and it's about the correction of the amount of 0.7, and 70% of the transfer of funds to the EU pension system. Knowing that the calculations of our pension are actually used by the average of that value point, the retirement rate, and the starting factor regarding the calculation of pensions. And this average value point is actually accounted for on the basis of all salaries made during the employment period in the Republic of Croatia compared to the average wage in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42850	Thank you very much. Finally, state secretary Katarina Ivankovic will say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42851	This is before I ask you to make a decision on the adoption of the law in question just a few clarifications. So as for 2013 and those who have been in service since 1 July 2013, it is clear in the law that it is also applicable retroactively to them, that all those who have worked in the authorities of the state administration since then, whether or not they have worked before, but this law has been applied since our entry into the EU. As regards segments as regulated in other countries, the Staff Regulations only allow countries to regulate in two ways. So one way is through the national law rules, so was done by Slovenia, Austria, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, Germany and the Czech Republic or through an agreement with the EU, which is how part of the countries handled it. As far as this last question is concerned, I think we all know that in the first degree, basic points are seen in accordance with the Pensions Act, in the second degree it's the issue of the basic pension formula, so that this segment remains this way and we have defined ourselves precisely for the actuarial calculation system because it is closer to our pension system and these are the basic reasons why we apply it. Here it is, thank you again for the constructive and positive debate and we expect that the law will be in the second reading as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42852	Thank you. We have one replica of your presentation of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42853	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, it is good that you have now stated in the end that you are entitled to exercise rights, or insurance companies that have already exercised their right by HZMO. So, what with them, by passing this law, they will actually be able to re-apply to the determination and exercise of their rights which is very important and because of all those who have already retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42854	I see that we have an honourable representative, so that concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote when you get the conditions. I see the distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric has something to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42855	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break in consultation with the MPs' club on the bill vote today. On the vote on the Law on concessions and CETAs. [[/Intruder Reiner: Eye?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42856	counterpart Ninčević-Lesandric, about which your club has already requested a break For the same point about the same thing, the same club, has no right. [[Intruder Ninčević-Lesandric: But I have the right to seek a break for all that...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42857	So, my colleague Bulj asked for a break for the concession law, if I'm not mistaken, he didn't mention it to CETA, and he didn't ask for a break, so here's the deal. The CETA stop was by Mr. Bunjac and the Living Wall. [[There was a break about CETA, look, you can...]] I don't abuse my Rules of Procedure. I want to take a break. [[Intruder Reiner: Look, you can abuse the Rules of Procedure any way you want.]] Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, abuse, and it is for the third time today to seek a break about things that are completely discussed.]] What did you say, that you didn't approve or approve of the break? [[Intruder Reiner: I do not approve of the break and you please if you think you are right to contact...]] What's the reason you don't approve of the break? [[Intruder Reiner: I do not approve of the break because it has been discussed...]] But I think I'm entitled to a break. [[/Intruder Reiner: This has been discussed already and today have been pauses because of this, therefore, there is no reason to further discuss it. If you think I hurt...]] But then we won't need that break. [[Intruder Reiner: So you are to contact the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42858	Now we're gonna announce a break, yeah, now we're gonna have a break by 12 o'clock. And then there'll be a vote as planned. It's 11:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-30-0.u42859	Proposal for a Law on the transfer of pension rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the Proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Pension Rights and the second, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that a unanimous 97 vote has been reached for, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We now move to the Proposal for a decision on the election of the Croatian Vice-President. Proposing the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The Association of Representatives of the Independent Lists in accordance with Articles 32, 172 and 272. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposed choosing a colleague, Bozo Petrov, as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We've got three applications. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most's esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is in the name of the Living Wall, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. He's gone, and he's losing his right. And individually, we also have a colleague, Mira Bulja, so he's gone, and he's gone once again. So then I close the debate, and for the election of the vice president, I just remind you, most of the votes of the present representatives are required. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to elect representative Bozo Petrov as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's vote. I find that with 91 votes for and 1 abstentioned representative Bozo Petrov has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I congratulate the new vice president on his election, and I wish him a lot of success. [[Applause.]]
