ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24610	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. As we announced yesterday we continue with the point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 72. And now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, here you go, the distinguished representative of Sinish Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP, I seek a break on the subject of an important within the political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24612	And we can find out what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24613	So it's about not making a certain amendment and supplementing a very important law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24614	We should define.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24615	About the abuse of tobacco.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24616	About the abuse of tobacco. Thank you very much. Here you go, distinguished representative Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24617	On behalf of the HNS club, we are also looking for a break, but related to the work of the parliament, i.e. the second week in which it happens that the Parliament postpones Friday's vote, which means the government's dissatisfaction with the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24618	Thank you. Any other clubs? Here you are, dear representative Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24619	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a break to discuss human rights violations of persons with autistic spectrum disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24620	Thank you. I didn't first see a respected representative, Simic, but now he's on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24621	All right. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most about the work of the Parliament in the past two weeks and otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24622	Thank you. Another club? If not, thank you very much. Then I'll meet you at 9.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today is international, or tomorrow, but today is celebrated here in front of the Croatian Parliament is celebrated, or is marked by the International Day for Combating Malignant Diseases and is repeatedly highlighted during my presentation by both the vice president and all other participants on the importance of prevention and the prevention of bad habits in preventing malignancies. Prevention is one of the main forms and within the prevention and promotion of health we have a segment that is marked as one of the most effective is limiting the availability of those means associated with the formation of malignant diseases. One of them is tobacco products and tobacco products are directly now proven to be directly related to the formation of malignant diseases within a population that dies of malignant diseases which is the other cause of death in the Republic of Croatia. The male population dies mostly of lung and bronch cancer and this is directly related to the poor habit of using tobacco products. When we look at the children's population according to data from European research on smoking, drinking alcohol and taking drugs from 2015 in Croatia, 62% of students smoked once or more in life, while research into the use of tobacco in young people in 2016 showed that 17.3% of Croatian students between 13 and 15 years of age currently use some form of tobacco products. It's a devastating statistic. It can also be added that in the total population, 34% of Croatian citizens and citizens use tobacco products regularly and that is something that is absolutely unacceptable since the civilized Western countries have already fallen below 10% with a trend and a further decline. The European Commission has adopted and the European Parliament has adopted Directive No. 40 from 2014 which stipulates that 65% of packaging tobacco products take up images and warnings of tobacco harmfulness, and Member States were obliged to comply with their national laws by 20 May 2016. Unfortunately, because of the political circumstances in the Republic of Croatia, there was a delay, there was no parliament to pass the law and there was a spillover and adoption of the law in 2016. However, we are one of the few countries in the EU that has not yet passed the law, and therefore the European Commission again issued a special warning on 8 December to comply with the directive and set a deadline by 8 February 2017. Gentlemen, the defacto expires in four days. And a public debate has been held by the government, however, the government is not going to refer this document, namely the draft amendments and amendments to the law to the parliamentary procedure in order not to be initiated by the European Commission... I call upon the government to bring about an amendment and an addition to the law as soon as possible, to take this seriously. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] There are certain documents from 2015 and the 16th year that talk about, in fact, 2016 that the HDZ and MOST government of Tomislav Karamarka had swept with British American Tobacco which is contrary to all conventions of the World Health Organization, where the agreement was de facto on the postponement of the adoption of this law. And here it is seen that this is the direct interest of the tobacco industry not to bring something like this, and I believe that the interest of citizens, the interest of all our patients in malignancies and the interest of preventing a new creation, of new malignancies in our population. The interest is the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible and as soon as possible to pass this law and to limit the availability of tobacco products to our population, especially to young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24625	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of HNS, HSU on behalf of which they will speak distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's our duty as parliamentary deputies and responsible politicians to talk at the end of the week, so Friday's about what's going on and what's going on in this House of Commons. And it happens that here is the second week in a row, i.e. the second Friday as usual in the Croatian Parliament, otherwise it does not vote on anything. The second week in a row in this Croatian Parliament is not yet on the agenda, nor is the agenda complemented and what is coming and what we are discussing is something that has been further discussed in the Government of Zoran Milanović. Because it is clear to everyone that when they get the laws on benches, and the public debates were held in the second month last and third months of the third year, then it is quite clear that these laws were made in the previous government and that we actually have nothing new from the new government, or even from the government that was six months, the government of Mr. Oreshkovic in this House. It's something to tell the public and what's true. This government, and then, of course, the Parliament, and we are, in that sense, called not to work, that the assembly is empty. So I'm asking you based on what should be full? What did we get here from some key reform stuff, put on the agenda to discuss it? What's of course happening is that certain test balloons are being released, certain news that mostly comes from the executive government, which we have no direct influence on, of course, but we can speak out loud and clear in this assembly that it's not good. It is that balloons are released to enter the euro area, and balloons are released about how INA will be bought or how it will be privatised to HEP, various commissions are established. Among other things, a new working group on education means one job that has worked for more than two years in Croatia, we have thrown into the trash and we have formed a new working group that will be working on a new proposal for reform of our education, which is a difficult pain in the back two years, and we have had a very, very high degree of consent that has gone well. Then what ended this week marked it again with guns, calling for us to start getting ready for some future war, I personally don't see it very well, but it seems that some see it and have the intensity of our young people, and perhaps even the older ones send it to some kind of military training. On behalf of the CNS, I must show great concern about the way the Parliament works and, of course, the government, which is always the one that initiates as executive power of change, that this is one government that really acts like a Titanic who looks like a Titanic who plays music, it all seems good, and it didn't end well. And I think it is time for everyone to wake up, especially the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and of course the Croatian Parliament, or the people who run the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24627	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to congratulate all Dubrovnikers and Dubrovnikers on their holiday. Vlaha. I will talk about seriously violated human and civil rights of persons with autism in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Anka Slonjašak has been in her reports for the past few years informing the Croatian Parliament about the very poor position of people with autism in us, realizing that people with autism are the most unprotected group of people with disabilities in our country and society, and as terrible as that sounds the most abandoned group of people with disabilities. The lawyer reasoned on the unsustainable treatment of the Croatian state towards its citizens with autism, pointed to a poor organisation of institutional care for people with autism at the Centre for Autism in Zagreb and branches of the same centre in Rijeka and Split. The separation process has begun, however nothing concrete has happened. Also a problem with the catastrophic and embarrassing state of diagnostics of people with autism as a consequence of the absence of early intervention, timely and appropriate multidisciplinary diagnostics, appropriate therapy and missed rehabilitation. The Autism Centre also has its treatment of 350 people who are cared for by 280 employees. In 34 years of his existence, he hasn't trained a single person socially. Finance Minister Mr. Maric should rightly ask himself, given the investments, as 38m kuna is spent annually on the Centre for Autism, what are the results. The United Kingdom, the EU countries have made a real revolution in the prevention of autism, treatment and training of people with autism. At an EU conference on autism organised by the Association of Autism in Europe in Italy in 2014, it was announced that around tens of thousands of people with autism were employed in Germany and Switzerland during 2013. In Croatia, zero. In order to join the EU, we had to adapt our state and social system to European norms and practices, so this should also be done with the system of care for autists in us but it has not been done. At the same time, autists from the countries of Southeast Europe and Hungary received from dedicated funds for the care of autists of millions in euro, built the necessary infrastructure, and received professional staff assistance and support. The head of the disability sector at the Social Policy Ministry, Mrs Zvezdedna Bogdanovic, should give a report to the current minister on the results made over the past few years. In accordance with the conclusions of the 2013 Croatian Parliament, Ombudsman for persons with disabilities Ms Anka Slonjašak called a meeting of three education, social care and health ministers, an inter-resorial expert group was formed at the head, which was Ms Milanka Opačić as Deputy Prime Minister, and nothing happened. A commission has been convened, certain meetings were called in line with the example of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian government completed its task in seven months. Since 2013, four years have passed, Croatia has still done nothing. I therefore call on the competent ministers and the competent person on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint a new expert committee to carry out this very important task in quality and professional terms. I hope that by April 2nd when the World Day of awareness of autism is marked, there will be some concrete shifts in the work of this working group to improve the quality of life of people with autistic spectrum disorders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24629	Thank you very much. And the next is the club of representatives of MOST in the name of which the distinguished representative Miro Šimić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24630	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the view of some of the exhibitions requested today at the station and before me, I had the need to address you and remind you of some colleagues who have obviously not followed the work of the Parliament since the beginning of this term, in which way this Parliament has worked, how much work this Parliament has done, and also look back on some of the mandates in which some of the colleagues in the opposition were the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament. So, if you compare 4 the last call of the Parliament, this convocation that we're in, it was in many ways the most effective. If we compare 60 days in the history of past mandates, we can say that as far as the number of working days are concerned in those 60 days, this meeting had the highest number of working days of 29 compared to for example 14 when opposition is now, then the ruling majority managed by the Parliament. We've done 101 agenda points compared to 66 of the mandate I'm now comparing. As for the acts passed, we passed 36 laws in relation to the 26 laws passed by the Assembly in the chairmanship, I think, Mr. Lek. As far as the other acts are concerned, we have brought 152 acts against the 104 acts of the Parliament of that time. As far as the wording is concerned, 2723 times the MPs responded to the word compared to 884 in the mandate. Not to go further with parliamentary issues, with other statistical indicators that will show that this assembly meeting thanks to both you colleagues and colleagues is far more active, far more productive than the three previous ones that we have received in this analysis. But I specifically had a need to look back at the Parliament's council's assembly when today's opposition was the ruling majority. And for what? Which is why I wanted to remind her that, first of all, that I don't see any problem with the vote that we have next week or week when the MPs decide. Secondly, it is recalled that there was also a representative here in some other council meetings when she was part of the ruling majority. I have, in 10 minutes I've collected a few dates when no vote has been held and she has not responded as a representative. And I don't think she should have reacted, because it's about the normal work of the Parliament. But when you make an introduction to your speech and tell us it's our duty as parliamentarians and responsible politicians to warn of what we don't now vote on. I do not see honestly this duty, but since it is recognised in that duty, I am curious that it was not recognized in that duty at the time when it was part of the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-03-0.u24631	Thank you very much. We would now move on to the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. Let's go see first, I think someone's picking up, raise your hand, put your hand down. Let's do it in a row. First he picked up, then he hung up, and then again he raised the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
