ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24909	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break to talk about the performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24910	Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24911	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am looking for a break for a few minutes to inform the public, and here are the present representatives and representatives of the importance of the topic, the rank of importance of the topics which... deals with Parliament and the efficiency of Parliament's work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24912	Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24913	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP representative club, I am looking for a break because we would like to warn of the continued destruction of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24914	I thank Representative Glavasevic. Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24915	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to say a few words about the situation concerning the opening of a new airport terminal in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24916	Agent Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24917	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the re-disturbing of drivers over 65 years of age for the introduction of a mandatory medical examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24918	Representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24919	Thank you, President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club regarding the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24920	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24921	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break to talk about the economy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24922	No other interested? Then I approve a 10-minute break for the press conference. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The SDP Representatives' Club called for a break. In their name will be the representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24924	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at yesterday's session of the Senate of the University of Zagreb, confirmed a proposal from the Rector's College of the University, which envisions zero registration places for the study of philosophy in Croatian studies for the following academic year. Thus, an effective philosophy study at Croatian Studies has been abolished. The Rector Boras said that the study has no perspective. For information you may not know, Croatian studies are the best rated higher school for social and humanistic sciences in Croatia. The Department of Philosophy worked and still works on 8 of the most quoted philosophers in the Republic of Croatia. We're not going to talk here about the Senate's metrics, because that part really is and belongs to the university's autonomy. But here we want to, and we must warn of the highly questionable character of this decision. Among the three philosophy studies at the University of Zagreb, the one at the Croatian Studies was best rated. For example, why is philosophy not abolished at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb? Why isn't philosophy abolished at the Faculty of the Society of Jesus? So in two other colleges, the underrated rectoral assembly estimated that it had perspectives, but the perspectives were not at the best rated high school. Quite accidentally, and perhaps not exactly with philosophy at the Croatian Studies in Augsburg, an application was sent for the plagiarization of Pave Barisic. We believe that in this case there is a high probability that this is actually about revenge. No Croatian higher school is among the 500 best universities in the world, and there are studies in Croatia and at the University of Zagreb that are abolished by some criteria that are clearly not respected by academic excellence. Due to these things, we are perfectly clear here that the problem is not that the philosophy at the Croatian Studies has no perspective, but the problem is that Croatian science and higher education in the Republic have no perspective next to their undertakers near Pava Barisic, next to the Rector Boras, the Ćovic Rector is the same philosopher who knows very well what this is about. It is a problem with perspective in Croatian science and higher education. Certainly, it is not a problem that a study was in some way unspectived. I am deeply interested in how far this will go, how long we will look and be calmly watching that science and higher education are being destroyed by completely insane criteria. Young people go to study outside Croatia. Croatia is very sad that I have to say this from this place is not a land of knowledge. In this way Croatia will never be. The autonomy of the university is the autonomy of development, autonomy in knowledge, research. It is not autonomy not to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, it is not autonomy to take revenge against those who lost some elections at the university. It's not that autonomy. And under cover of autonomy, at the University of Zagreb, and also in other places and stealing and trading influence, so here are the things that are done all under cover of autonomy. I would like to warn you that the development of science and higher education in your domain, in our domain, we have to influence it, we have to fight for it, not to let people who are not involved in politics in the theory, and in practice are engaged, to burn and burn to Croatian colleges because in this way Croatia will never become a country of knowledge. We're here to fight that framework where universities can be free to be healthy. I'm asking you to consider these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24925	Representative Sincic will speak on behalf of the Live Wall Club, SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24926	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have another tragic episode of the enraging of the ultimate problem, the executive mafia in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, today at 11 pm at the address of Ratko Petrovic 16 in Rijeka is scheduled for eviction, so emigration, forced from her home Mrs. Nevenka Licl. Tragedy is bigger if we know what the amounts are. In fact, the lady has been living at that address for a long time, she's been paying all her dues neatly when she's out of a job and now you can spend 50 years back and pay the directors, don't pay back once, twice you're the biggest thief going to work and losing everything you've got. In fact, because of only two thousand kunas for the reserve, there was an execution, there was an even bigger one for 12 thousand kunas, 12 thousand kunas of interest in court and notable expenses. The total debt grew in auction time to 60,000 kuna, while real estate was estimated at 650 thousand kuna, so by one tenth or less, one eleventh was sold the only home of this lady. This is not the only case, it may be one of the most extreme cases, but certainly an indicator of how deep and how unfair and how unfair our executive law is, but not just the executive law, but all those laws that are related to the ultimate problem. We can talk about the bankruptcy law, the law on the implementation of the law over the funds of the so-called money. the law on personal bankruptcy and other rules and regulations. I call upon the ruling, above all, the MOST that holds both the Ministry of Administration and the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice to stop this injustice. In fact, a trend that we as a Parliament don't really have the right information is simply that I can't get to them either, but I know that the situation is tragic, for example. I wrote to HEP all his branches in the county to deliver some data to me three, four months ago to the day of today from 21 addresses from one I received an answer. It's a tragedy, obviously I'll have to gather the activists and go door to door to deliver the information. The situation isn't better anywhere, and the answers to my representative's questions are that I don't speak. Since real estate tax is introduced, it will be additional pressure on our poorest builders, those who are on edge. Many of them will end up like Mrs. Licul or that lady from Koprivnica if I'm not wrong about which apartment was sold for 1,400 kuna. I call upon the ruling and remind them that in the 28th 10th, the Executive Law was passed in the first reading. I ask and ask when will the second reading of this law be put into practice? We don't want any microscopic changes that have been made here. We also want the promoters to be present this time, not from four or none. Keep the promise you made to your voters and you as MOST and Prime Minister Plenkovic in the election campaign. If you don't, we will, we will attack the law with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24927	Representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24928	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break to meet and warn the public, and all of you sitting here on the rank of the topics we are dealing with in the Croatian Parliament and the efficiency of the work of the Parliament. Our citizens here have chosen to change a reality that is harder and harder to bear for all who live in ours. But what exactly are we discussing, what are we dealing with, how important are the topics that we are dealing with here in the Parliament? So last week I analyzed 66 agenda points that are scheduled for the next days and weeks, as many as 28 points refer to the Annual Reports of various agencies and state institutions. I repeat, of the 66 points of the agenda, 28 points are a variety of reports as if we're some kind of supervision. All right, it is intended to adopt that, or to meet the Parliament, but of the 28 reports we are dealing with, 24 are the annual reports of 2015, and 4 are the reports of 2014. These 28 agenda points account for 40% of the overall agenda programme of this Assembly. So you see, please, what has become the priority of our work. Mr. President of the Parliament, you run this House, you put together the agenda, I have a proposal for you. Wait a month, two if necessary, combine the points of the annual reports for 2014, 2015, 2016, because they are related to the same agencies, institutions, we will save everyone together for at least two to three weeks and we can do other useful things. What's the importance of the other agenda points that we're dealing with here? Or should I ask before that, where did the proposals of some laws that bear the mark of urgency get lost? So where is it, what's up with the Executive Law? What about the proposal of the CNB Act? What about some other laws that came here in the process, what's waiting? Are they perhaps ticklish and too heavy for the upcoming local elections not to lose their voices? I ask you and all of us here, why on the agenda of this House there are no burning issues about the state and future of the EU and the position of Croatia in all this? Why is there no discussion of plenary sessions about demographic movements about the situation of blocked citizens, about demographics, about justice, about Slavonia, Bani, about the situation of the blocked citizens, about demographics, about justice, about Slavonia, about Bani, why there are no such topics? They're burning topics. Why there is no debate on the monetary, credit policy that some other MPs have also proposed. And here we are at the end, gentlemen, coming back, back to this House of Truth, to deal with the burning problems of Croatian society, because that's what citizens expect of us. They're tired of history, of digging through archives, of counseling for the past, of this, of that. Let's play smaller or bigger games where someone can score some points, let's turn to these topics. And Mr. President-in-Office, please think about this and classify, if not all, some of these most important topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24929	Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, on behalf of HNS, HSU, will talk about the requested stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24930	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club of Liberal Democrats has requested a break to warn the public of a completely non-sustainable economic and transportable illogical solution that will define future access to Zagreb Airport. The new airport of Zagreb terminal is officially opening on March 21st, and according to our knowledge, the approach to the new Zagreb road is closing. An alternative, new entry route is opened from the direction of the Homeland Bridge, which in practice means that the town of Velika Gorica will remain completely trafficked from the airport that is on its territory. This is a completely unacceptable solution for us, and we regret that there has been such a possibility that the entrance to the airport is moving about 9km away from the existing entrance and thus puts the destruction of all our tourist facilities at risk. 10 hotels, overnight stays and other accommodation facilities will practically run out of guests overnight. No one will ever be paid to stay overnight or to stay in Velika Gorica because there are many other accommodation facilities in the same radius only on the other side of Sava. It's something that threatens the economic stability of our city and its tourist identity. On the other hand, it is completely traffic illogical because the existing approach has actually been in place since the Zagreb Airport. We suggest that, urgently and in coordination with the town of Velika Gorica, Mr Drazen Barisic, our parliamentary representative and colleagues, the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Defence urgently find a solution in order to immediately reconstruct the existing road leading between the old terminal and the new terminal, and to pave the way for the crossing with the service road on which the vehicles of the Zagreb Airport, which are otherwise unregistered and thus lead to the loss of traffic, so that this cross-crossing is done in order to establish another, we absolutely logical and need traffic direction. I warn you that since 28 March every vehicle that has access to Zagreb Airport will be directed to the right by the old route of Velikagorje road at the entrance to Velika Gorica. east bypass and will have to drive an additional 9km to get a new entrance at the Homeland Bridge, near Kosnica. All those who have planned their journey must bear that in mind and, of course, the great-goreans will only see what this detachment from the airport actually means. Some idea that large-mounted people should be provided with some kind of special ausweise pass, controlled by a police officer, or police patrol on an existing old road, technical traffic between the two terminals are completely insane, this is a much wider interest. Because this is a question of interest for the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia is the majority owner of Zagreb Airport, which is given in concession to foreign companies. We are therefore asking that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure immediately take action to put this road between the old terminal and the new terminal into operation, to traffic and to allow anyone closer access to the airport from the west of Zagreb and Velika Gorica and Sisak to continue to use the traffic direction uninterruptedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24931	Varda's representative will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party SMSH Reformist and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24932	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. After the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic was on one parliamentary issue related to the mandatory medical examination of drivers over 65 years of age... said the government would consider the proposal with special attention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here again on March 11th in the Vecernji list of announcements that the MUP proposes introducing a mandatory medical examination for drivers over 65 years of age. After countless calls by such drivers since the date of publication of this information in the Evening List, who are upset by such a bill that drivers all over 65 years will have to have a regular medical examination, and by calling on the European Community Directives, it has caused the anxiety of these drivers and would be discrimination based on age because the age is discriminatoryly identified with sickness. However, traffic criminology has shown that drivers over 65 years of age are more cautious and conscious drivers who speak numerous data from the Health Ministry reference centre of the elderly Dr. Andrija Stampar. In fact, older drivers make up less traffic delicacies, and the main culprits of traffic delicacies, including traffic deaths, are alcohol, drug abuse and lack of experience, which cannot be attributed to the largest part of the experience to older people aged 65. After all, we also plan to plan a working life for 67 years or more, and at the same time, according to this proposal, the same employees are said to be probably unable to drive or drive their car to their place of work. What is the parameter that determines that a person becomes less capable of driving exactly the day he celebrates 65th birthday and has to pay a review at the current prices of 435 kuna at medical examinations and prices that will come after the adoption of the law if this proposal is adopted because then there are also specialist reviews and normal cost of the work of a family doctor. I am not sure that this proposal has been well read by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health. Because there is not a word in the directives on age limits, but there is a speech on the type of driving permits and diseases that can affect the ability to drive motor vehicles such as cardio vascular, diabetes mellitus, this is what you will know, malignant hypertension, vision problems, mental disorders, drugs, medicines, neurological diseases, and obstructive apneic syndrome and others. So, diseases, not age limits. On the other hand, I want to calm drivers over 65 years of age, the law is not yet in practice, has not entered into force, and I call on them to manage motor vehicles with due attention as well as other road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24933	Representative Šimic will speak on behalf of the representatives of the MOST club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24934	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs, so here I was reporting for a break regarding the work of the Parliament, and I would like to refer to some legislative proposals that we discussed here in the first reading and whose preparation for the second reading is in the final stage of what they are familiar with many colleagues sitting in these benches, and some who spoke just before. As for the work of the Parliament, it has already been said here once after seeking a break from one of the colleagues, but here it is not bad to repeat that this assembly of ours is if it is observed and compared to the three most successful and by the number of working days and by the number of laws passed and by the number of announcements for debates, replicas and everything else that is the work of our parliamentary representatives. I don't want to waste time on exact figures and statistical indicators right now, but here's what might be important in view of the discussions of colleagues just passed laws, so if you compare the period in four mandates in which this one is involved, nine laws were passed in the sixth term. In the same time period in the seventh 26, in the eighth only 2, and in the ninth 36. So I'm talking about laws, I'm not talking about reports. He says these are publicly known documents. They were also informed by the public and the President of the Parliament, so I think we have arguments to defend this assembly as extremely successful and I will say worthy. As for the reports why they're here. The reports are here because we have such legislation. They are on the Parliament's agenda not only in this term, but in many previous mandates and it is natural that they are there. But on the other hand, I know that there is an initiative at the Bureau's level that will include all the clubs in that individual reports are united, that there are some discussions only on committees to reduce the debate only in the parliamentary benches and can focus more on legislative proposals. And regarding the legislative proposals and some important topics that the Most has just put on the agenda of this Assembly just to say and to remind you that in time when we asked for legislative proposals to go into the emergency procedure, we had a great deal of disrepute first of all of the opposition MPs who asked for us to go to regular procedure, who asked us to consult with the interested public and we respected those views of our own primarily opposition colleagues, so for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, it happened that a particular club of representatives had placed its legal proposals on the Council's website and called on the interested public to include it. Among other things that we've already adopted and passed since these laws? It is the Law on the financing of political parties where we have reduced the allocations for political parties, where we have tied them to budgetary revenues, not expenditure. A law on the rights of officials where we have restricted the use of rights 6+6, so it can no longer happen that some representative who has been in the Assembly for 2 days after that takes a year's salary. As part of the full tax reform, we abolished the company tax, we passed the Law on Local Elections, which extended the catalogue of criminal offences that prevent people from running. In our first reading, we discussed the Law on HRT, the Law on CNB, the Law on Elections of Representatives, the Executive Law, the Law on the Rights of Representatives. Now in the second reading it is already on the agenda of the Law on HRT and the Law on the Rights of Representatives. As far as the Executive Act and the CNB Act are concerned, the executive law is prepared for second reading at this time together with our partners they have received our final version, and this week we are discussing the last meetings before the law comes on the agenda itself. With regard to the CNB Act, we have also done a number of work meetings, co-workers are involved with their suggestions from opposition clubs, we have been working meetings with the Ministry of Finance, we want to do as well as possible preparation to get ahead of your benches as possible for our citizens. As for the debate on certain important topics that are really important for this society, all of us as MPs, all of us as advocates have the right and opportunity to put such topics on the agenda, to fight for them both through agenda points and through parliamentary breaks. And I invite all my colleagues to take advantage of their rights. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24935	Thank you. Representative Bačić will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24936	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So we are witnessing that for five months the Parliament has started its session with the pauses through which they are trying to show themselves to the Croatian public of the affairs that are being blasphemed... in Croatian. It would seem from these breaks that we are calling on Croatia to be a failed state where minorities are depreciated in which all Croats are threatened with fundamental human rights or at the lowest possible level, a country where crime, corruption, a country full of customerism, nepotism, our neighbours say that in Croatia there is a fascism scene etc., etc. And we all know that Croatia faces problems, it is not a controversial and problem of emigration and demographics and all those inherited problems that during these eight, nine, ten years of crisis have conditioned a state of dissatisfaction in Croatia. However, the data on the Croatian economy, on the growth of the Croatian economy, on all those macroeconomic indicators that say that the situation in Croatia is moving both in the economy and in society. I would say that last year it ended in the growth of the economy 2.9%, that only the last quarter of last year ended with a growth of 3.4%, which is the largest individually observed quarter since 2008, that all this was the result of a 5% growth in industrial production, that this was the result of a growth of construction works of 3%, tourist nights of 9%, a retail trade of little 4%, exports increased in the past year by 5.1%. And the mere fact that in January 2017 compared to January 2016, so at the annual level, exports increased almost 27%. The European Commission, which speaks enough of its winter forecasts for EU Member States, gives Croatia the largest shift of all EU member states in such a way that the projected growth of the economy of 2.5% and the European Commission itself estimated that it will grow to 3.1% this year. What is very important is the financial consolidation of public finances, and in 2016, and very soon will come here to the Parliament report on last year's budget, we will see that the deficit of the state budget is significant below the planned 1.6. All these macroeconomic indicators also clearly lead to a decrease in public debt from GDP, and we will testify that public debt has fallen from 87% of GDP to 84% in 2016. Furthermore, the budget itself will feel this, so we saw that yesterday, the finance minister on behalf of the Republic of Croatia issued bonds whose minimum yield so far is less than 3%, which means that this will result in more than 300 million kuna savings by reducing expenditure and then clearly reducing deficits in the Republic of Croatia. In parallel with this, the big projects that we are going to do these days or following their opening, which was mentioned earlier by fellow Beus Richembergh, where he, in a certain way, used this pay phone as his promotional tool when he talked about the crosses in his town, which he is right to, when we see what is happening here, and we know that the town of Velika Gorica is finishing talks with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and with the Airport to make the same road, and that Mr Richembergh mentioned clearly for the use of both the airport and the needs of the citizens of Velika Gorica. But that's what he's right about. So we are witnessing numerous projects that will be opened or started these days with a total value of a billion and 500 million euros, if we are talking about the Peljesk Bridge, about Zagreb Airport, Dubrovnik Airport, Split Airport and the continuation of the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon. And there he would agree with counterpart Lovrinovic, we should talk more about these very topics in which we would encourage a number of topics that contribute to the growth of the Croatian economy through the debate in the Assembly. and I say through all these indicators that I hastily expressed I wanted to show that the situation in Croatia is not so black that we would gladly show it here, but that it is Croatia when it comes to the economy, the fastest growing economy of all EU Member States in the year ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u24937	We're going back to work. We're going back to work. The first point is: - Proposed law on insurance of labour claims, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 99. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the 1st reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Please, State Secretary Katarina Ivanković Knezevic at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So there is a law before you to ensure the rights of workers in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy and in the case of blockades of accounts and employers due to the inability of forced compensation, unpaid pay or remuneration. The body implementing this law has been called so far the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer. Since the protection measure for workers' rights in the event of an employer’s account blockade was not contained in the title of the law itself, it has in fact been very common to create the wrong perception of its content and the obligations arising from it, as this law harmonizes the name of the applicable law with the content as well as the name of the agency with the activity it carries out. The same harmonisation is done with the terms of the bankruptcy and executive law in terms of title and text, and therefore the concept of a claim is replaced by the notion of a search covering both bankruptcy and blockade situations. Furthermore, as regards certain rights that arise, we can say that there is a wider protected period in which workers can exercise their right. Therefore, according to the applicable law, the protected period was 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. the last 3 months before the termination of the working relationship if it ceased within 3 months of the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. This law extends the period to 6 months, meaning the protected period is increasing. So now we also represent a period of 3 months before the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, i.e. the last 3 months before the termination of the working relationship if it ceased 6 months before the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. So this expansion actually gives us an additional opportunity and opportunity for more actually our fellow citizens who have not received, or that their salaries have not been paid regularly. And of course, we don't get into the kind of and extent of the rights that we protect. Furthermore, the rights that workers can achieve are exempt from the exercise, that is to say. And that is because their payment ensures the defacto basic existence of workers. Those rights which may be effected are unpaid salaries, i.e. salaries, unpaid salaries, i.e. sickness benefits, which according to health insurance regulations were due to be paid by the employer, outstanding fees for the unused annual leave, up to the minimum wage amount. Furthermore, the law defines that this group, which includes the most than half of the highest law, the highest amount of the prescribed severance law and the rightful compensation for damages suffered by injuries to work or occupational disease, and up to the level of one-third of the rightful compensation for damages. This law also lays down an exception to this rule, which is that in the event of a bankruptcy proceedings against the employer, such rights cannot be exercised by members of the company’s management, a member of the board of directors, an executive director of a company or a cooperative manager, regardless of the time when these transactions were carried out. In fact, the purpose of this law is to ensure the payment of minimum demand and the protection of those categories which, by their work with a creditor, did not or could not affect the decision-making of a company, so that they do not bear the responsibility for the bankruptcy of the company. And that actually led us to exempt these people from being mentioned. For example, during 2016, the agency paid 2245 employees' claims in 96 bankruptcy debtors totaling 37 million 633 thousand kuna. Likewise, during the application of the Institute of Insurance of the Search for Workers in the event of a blockade, so that's where we're talking about bankruptcy, we're talking about blocking the employer's account, and we're seeing shortcomings in procedural provisions that actually made it difficult to act properly and effectively, and that's why we're removing this act by prescribing clear and unequivocal provisions. The procedure shall be initiated by an employer who, by the last day of the month, has not paid the salary or the salary paid to the worker for the previous month. The employer is obliged to submit a request to the financial agency for forced payment with the account of the unpaid salary, i.e. remuneration. In the event of a blocking of an account due to a non-executive basis for payment of an employer, the employer shall submit to the agency a summary request for payment of salaries or remuneration of a minimum beach for all workers who are not paid or paid for that month. The Agency shall adopt a minimum wage solution for each employer whose account has been blocked for salary contributions. The amount of minimum salaries paid by the agency to the employer, the employer is obliged to return within the prescribed time limit and, otherwise, the agency will require the repayment of funds via the Financial Agency by a request for forced payment with the primary order. This particular issue of the primary order is equally newly defined in the law itself. If the employer fails to submit a request to the Financial Agency for forced payment and the labour inspectorate has the knowledge that the employer has not paid the salary, a solution will be made to ensure the payment, severance and a ban on the availability of the money that the employer has on any account at the bank for the amount which makes up the multiple of the minimum wage and the number of workers not paid, i.e. the remuneration fee for a certain month. As far as this rule is concerned, we also envisioned an exception, an exception, which is that members of the administration, executive directors of the company, and cooperative managers in cases where they themselves do not pay their own wages, i.e. remuneration. So these people can't exercise the rights of the agency in cases where they don't pay their wages, so they don't commit themselves to blocking accounts. To recapitulate, the implementation of this law has provided funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, and this is for proceedings relating to bankruptcy proceedings of the employers of 53 million and for the procedures for the provision of rights in the event of a blockade in the case of 15 million kuna. In short, this law increases the availability of protection for former workers as I have stated. The procedure excludes certain categories of persons and provisions are clearer, simplified and actually simpler and more understandable to everyone for use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33212	Thank you to the secretary of state. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, of course, that everyone in this House agrees with the need to further protect the rights of workers, i.e. in these unfavourable situations when the company is either in bankruptcy or in a blockade and when the job ends, and de facto the job claims remain and it would be good for people to reach their resources as easily as possible and in as possible. But what we're particularly concerned about right now in the Republic of Croatia is that at this point 10670 people are working and not getting paid. And the trend that happens in that part is compared to the end of last year, so in just a few months, the new 1676 people who received the salary today are not getting paid. So we have in that part I would say worrying trend, that today in Croatia more and more people are working and not getting paid. And on that side, I would like to see what both the ministry and the state institutions are doing to apply those laws that some who are unfair employers and use people in this way finally bear certain sanctions. Be aware you have now listed two and a few thousand people who have been compensated through this law through the agency in the past year, but be aware that you are responsible as the Government and the Ministry that at this point 10670 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are working and not receiving pay. And of course another topic that is particularly important here, and which is said less and less, that 75,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia are at a minimum that is not worthy of life and on these topics I think the Government must work and not work enough and that is why we are not satisfied. And of course we'll support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33214	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33215	Thank you. The secretary of state confuses a statement in this law that you have here and repeated in an explanation. It is contained in Article 8. It is, therefore, about the achievement of the salary or salary compensation in the event of the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. At what height? It's said as high as the minimum wage. What does that mean? This means that the maximum amount that can be paid is the minimum wage. But from what minimum amount of one kuna? If it's a minimum wage, what's a minimum of it? So what's it with, how's the worker protected? Not at all. Not at all. Because if the agency will pay him maximum minimum wage, and he's allowed to pay any amount to that minimum salary. Then that amount could be two limes. If it's working protection, then I have no idea what a worker is and what a protection is. I may think your intention was to write that the worker would receive minimum wage. But if that's the case, then write it down, and if you think two kunas is enough protection for unpaid pay, then we can't talk about protection. Explain. You can answer the line and explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33216	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the Living Wall Representatives' Club. In their name will be a representative of Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33217	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have a very important name in front of us, so the Labour Search Act, and that is therefore a very important issue because it deals with those people who are dependent on the future of this country, which is, above all, workers. Workers in Croatia are in a very difficult position today because their salaries are too low to be able to provide and resolve their basic, existential issues. On the other hand, legislation does not protect them enough and even worse than all the laws that exist are not implemented. A representative here has recently stated that we should pass the Law on law enforcement and should, in fact, discuss it throughout this issue and observe it in the full context. This law, which states that these labour claims and their collection should be improved, should first of all be said that workers are double-crossed before any payment of the demand mentioned in this law is made. In many dams in Croatia, in many professions, payrolls have been faked and the worker has already been double-crossed before he has even come up with the opportunity to charge something from his employer, through these payments of the lists, on which overtime, the hours of the night and similar to what is called, let's say similar excess jobs, falsely shows on pay lists such as travel expenses, stimulation or even paying workers their wages on their hands, and of course they don't pay any contributions. I especially want to highlight the difficult situation in the security profession of around 10 thousand in Croatia, I want to highlight the difficult situation in the pyrotechnics profession, and I want to highlight the difficult situation in the construction profession, where almost 90 and more workers do not get paid in accordance with the law. And then, worst of all, many employers have already learned one scheme by which when they take advantage of a company, simply that same company closes, intends to shut it down, deliberately send it to bankruptcy, to immediately open up another company, extract capital from the old company, and continue business as if nothing had happened, so that workers remain without pay, remain without severance, remain without paid vacations, and cannot get their own funds. The law stipulates that at least one part of these salaries will be able to be charged, but only up to the minimum wage, up to half the severance amount, which means that justice will not be met again. In order to shed some light on this problem, I will give two examples from practice. We have an example of Zdenko Ljevak's publisher, who led the “Forward” Report and who remained in debt to the workers in the amount of 1.3 million kuna, the creditors of 25 million kuna, the city of Zagreb for the lease of business space 18 million kuna, did not pay the tax, did not pay the tax, did not pay the tax, did not pay the contribution. He was parallel to the company "Forward" founded by Naklada "Levak", "Grafpex", "Good Book" and then continued his business and now watch out for who, with the state. So he's doing business with the state. Open the site of the Ministry of Culture, open the site of the Ministry of Education and see how many hundreds of thousands of kunas a man gets from a state budget that is also due to workers for their salaries. Mr. Zeljko Dujanovic is owed 148 salaries, a judicial verdict, and he cannot possibly charge for it. Will this law help workers to get their backs? I'm afraid not. Another example, almost absurdity comes from the security profession where the company "Gama Security" owned by Jozo Marinović owed workers 2.5 salaries, vacations and severance fees, and then the owner closed the company, founded a new company "Draj Security" to his daughter, transferred all the property from the old company to the new company and then named the homeless for the owner of the old company. Carefully, he appointed a homeless man named Igor Mikelj and this homeless man became the owner of a company that owes workers a salary without ever signing a single document without ever seeing the company's account, without even knowing what it was about, without ever receiving a salary or compensation, all claims were transferred to the homeless. And the Dragon Security company continued its work. And now I want to ask the representatives of the ministry who are here. What's the labour inspection doing? What is the purpose of passing such a law when employers know very well that workers can cheat however they want? Do you know that security and similar companies are not allowed to come to the labour inspection without notice? They can't come without notice. They must report a week in advance and even after the employer has announced that he is not obliged to provide them with the documentation. If you think I'm lying, here's a report written by a senior labour inspector named Bisserka Stefičić. Iur. Please listen, "because workers have been notified that the responsible persons of the employer did not, at the request of the labour inspector, provide the necessary documentation and the labour inspector could not determine the actual situation. So is that possible? So the employer didn't want to deliver the labour inspection. So what do we find out now? We find out that workers in Croatia, citizens of the second category. These are people with no rights, people who are crushed with dignity, any one of them who can escape from Croatia will run away with their heads no matter what. And should that surprise us at all? And they reported to the DORH, here is Mr. Igor Magdic, Sokol Maric, last year in June that he worked 265 hours, that he received a payment list with 175 hours, that he received a salary of less than 4000 kuna. And the labour inspection and the FINA and he went to the media and anywhere. You think he got his claim today? It's not. He didn't get it and he won't get it. And why is that? Because this is, among other things, a political issue. Not only does the state protect employers like Zdenko Leviak who allows him to operate the state but the HDZ government has chosen him as director of the HRT programme council. For the director of the Council of Electronic Media, watch out for a man who doesn't pay his salary. What is the message that is sent to the citizens, sent to the workers if the state so refers to them? And I've already spoken from this phone booth several times and I'm going to do it one more time and I told Minister Maric and I'm going to tell him again. I know Mr. Boric that you're not interested in this, you're now interested in the results of the NB match tonight. But I'd like to tell you something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33218	Mr. Bunzac, I'd like to ask you not to be disdainful.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33219	Well, he's been distracting me all along and you, you don't either...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33220	So you don't disrespect the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33221	It's distracting me. If the issue of gray economy in the Republic of Croatia were resolved, when the whistle-wrestle law was passed, this budget would be filled within a year with several billion kunas, with several billion kunas. People would start to believe you, feel that they have dignity again, that there is hope in this country again. And it's very important that we protect the worker in every way possible. If it is in any way possible for this law to improve this situation I am raising not one but raising both hands for this law, I support it, but I am afraid that this law, like those previous laws that are actually good, will not contribute to the protection of workers in Croatia because the whole system does not work or is set up to protect only employers and not workers. What we can say is that if bankruptcy is opened, workers are not informed of the launch of bankruptcy. That the bankruptcy in Zagreb can be carried out in Dubrovnik, that bankruptcy can be carried out on the advertising board without informing anyone at all. Well, FINA doesn't even have to inform the bankruptcy manager about the claims. That's the way it is. Croatian citizens are watching us all who are here and me. And they expect us to finally do something to protect this right, their rights. If the rights of workers are not protected, I'm afraid this state cannot be called social, I'm afraid this state cannot be called just. And for this reason, I expect not only that this law should be adopted but that it should be improved, and most importantly, that all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia work to protect workers, and especially in this case, which is essentially the final measure, which is the payment of the workers' claims that occur after they have practically exhausted all possible legal frameworks for the worker to finally get what is painful, difficult, by his own sweat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33222	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33223	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Comrade Bunjac, you have opened a series of important topics. First of all, this law should be welcomed, certainly, perhaps in some time frame of damage that it was not before because it might help many workers. We like to say we're a Catholic country. You've mentioned the word "faith" a few times. So, the other day I was talking to my priest and he told me that he was one of the greatest sins and there was no greater sin actually not to pay the worker. It's a great sin, that's what people forget, and that's the problem of this country. The laws are passed, we do our jobs in the Croatian Parliament, here, laws are passed, this law is good. But what you pointed out is, and where are the institutions, and what are they doing, what is the tax administration doing? We had our time, that list came out, so-called. a list of shames where you saw exactly who owed the state. There were 50 billion kunas of tax debt. In the end, some people ended up on that list of shame that they were not supposed to be there but many who were supposed to be nothing about it at the end of the day, nor did they do it. As far as this part is concerned, regarding the claims of workers who have so far... You said well, when there was bankruptcy or even pre-demand deals, the money had already been taken out of the company, the workers had already been cheated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What to say now for a man who gets severance in the amount of seven thousand kuna and the employer tells him you have to sign or the bankruptcy manager says you have to sign that you've got eight thousand kuna. That's what happened at the GAY company in Slatina. What about those people who get minimum wage today, and they have to pay the employers back some of the money from that salary. He gets two and a half times as much as he's minimum, I don't know, and he's got 500 kuna to pay back. Where are the labour inspections? And that's the problem that institutions don't do their jobs, and that's why we're in this situation, but that's why we've been in this situation, because the whole system, everything that's been going on in history, is going to come to us now, bigger and tomorrow, maybe there's going to be bigger problems. Here's what I can say in the Slatina joke, only in the past tense time is the only police station that hasn't gone bankrupt, all the other companies have been robbed, gone bankrupt most of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33224	The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33225	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sagar, you're absolutely right. So the legislator and the executive authority should deal with the bankruptcy problem. Because there are not only cases that one owner closed the company and opened the other one, but there are cases that one owner opened the company four times in a row and then opened the fifth. Here I know of a particular case of such a pyrotechnics company, where simple bankruptcys are repeatedly repeated. And someone in this country should once say that it's simply not possible, so it's not possible for a man to stay four times in debt to pay and five times continue to do not know either through his wife, through his daughter, or as we've heard in this case, to run this same job, to continue the fraud, and essentially to become an apathetic, to lose every will to life, to come to a state of fear, to a state of depression, and as I have repeated many of them simply try to escape from a country that should be their mother, who should take care of them. And I repeat, according to the Constitution of the State, which is at the point of the 1st Social State. It is sad that today we have come to a state where workers are, and even peasants, that part of society that is viewed with contempt, that part of society that is exploited beyond every measure, that are oppressed, that I repeat to all of us here, that we may be able to live in some way completely different from them, separated from them. And on that side, I call for the maximum social sensitivity of all MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33226	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33227	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I come from a region known to the former system for at least one company called Boranci, which was employed in the season by thousands of workers, which was created by the merger and seizure of land to local farmers. The same company worked until the war, after which a certain Mikulić, who, according to his Christian criteria, even fired a 9-child worker when asked him. When he told him you had Christmas, and I won't have it. Furthermore, this same Mikulić comes here to Zagreb and takes over Pan, a paper store, nothing to anyone. I don't know what kind of situation this company is in. And in Borance comes Hrvatko, who also does malfeasance, goes on. After him came the Belgians, the first thing they did was say the Belgian flag in the factory circle, cut down on the workers' wages. So they came to one of their colonies where they have workers from nearby who work for 2500, 2800, rarely who cross 3,000 kunas, work in shifts, work on their land, on their grandfathers for who knows which boss. So they were exploited worse than at the time of Mattia Gupca and Francis Tahi. On our land, we have become servants because of someone who did not know how to govern this land and who took advantage of it. foreign investors. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33228	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33229	Thank you very much. Representative Culej, it is the fact that someone responsible in this country should finally understand that a satisfied worker makes a satisfied state, that if workers are satisfied, if workers are protected, if workers do not have to fear for legality, means paying wages is, disbursement is a criminal offense. Who's ever been responsible for that? Who was responsible for not knowing women should not get pregnant, making women pregnant and having children after going back to work give poor working conditions. Who's to blame for the fact that many people don't get travel expenses, that many people don't get paid overtime, that severances can only dream, get some miserable severances from a few thousand kunas. Here we saw that this year's budget wasn't even for severance officers. If the state realized that the protection of workers and peasants itself prospered, it would already be a major shift in the awareness of the people who run the country. And most importantly, if someone were to think pragmatically in a purely political sense, they would realize that if they were to side with workers and peasants, they would get not one mandate to put the government together, but I think they'd get a life term, so people would pick it out and choose it as long as it's alive. This is what it takes for our ruling structures to understand, but I'm afraid that they have already succumbed to capital, that it will be very difficult in the short term to achieve such a shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33230	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, distinguished colleagues Marko Vučetić and counterpart Miro Bulj applied for the debate. First respected colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33231	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's Proposal for a Law on the Insurance of Workers' Searches stems from this harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and this bill leads to an increase and expansion of workers' rights in relation to the Semantics of the existing Labour Rights Insurance Act in the event of a bankruptcy proceedings against the employer. It is extremely important that this bill avoids the disharmonic meaning between the name of the law and the content of the law, is this bill making the notion of the law richer with all the hermeneutical potential which contains the concept of demand. And that Semantic and that meaning is only now in the rights of workers and in the lives of workers to produce the right effects. Furthermore, this bill also gives rise to the permanent redefining of the concept of workers in a way that also considers the worker to be considered a person who has not been paid a salary or a fee for work due to the inability of forced payment. So, this bill of law, apart from having redefine the rights of workers, except that we have one more precise significant dimension, we meet inexplicably and need to talk from this historic point of view about what workers are and what workers represent in society. Clearly, we must stay away from the historical position from getting into some derivatives of the Marxist view where workers would begin to observe through estranged work and work process through money that has moved away from workers. What does that mean? The truth is that the right to work in a historical position has always been met with a kind of impression of injustice in history. The workers were not referred to as a group of people who are doing what should be the most valued theoretically, is the highest human activity and the highest human activity exactly the activity of the work. Because a man produces and produces not only products, working him perfects the world, he brings some new newspaper into the world, and that newspaper consists of being able to win new options. We have reduced the world to a level of disenfranchisement, a level of alienation and a level of lack of rights, but also to a level of depravity of many options. We also have a chance to see that in the eviction of our fellow citizens. They are not evicting because of what is not good in Croatia now, but because they remain without this anti-cipulation of the future state or without the possibility of having other options in the future. For this reason and labour law, we must not only reduce to the level of money and payouts and wages that workers have earned. This law resolves this in a way that it is protected from the period of three months for which the worker is entitled to receive the salary, has the right to receive work compensation, has the right to protect the annual leave fees, on severance fees, compensation if there has been an injury within the working process and the protected period applies in cases of bankruptcy in the six months prior to bankruptcy if the worker has achieved this three-monthly guaranteed right. So that's not what we're asking. What we are concerned about is that the dimension of work and the dimension of the work begins to be observed within the horizon of the first one, that the work activity is not without price and that the work and the work that the employee belongs to belongs to and history. A society and a state that runs out of workers is left without the possibility of building a better and different world in it. And that's what this House, this House, should be worried about, whether the product and the work process can end with wealth, can end with the creation of ownership, but what we should strive to do is to pass laws that, by protecting employment and protecting workers, will allow us to pass laws that will be fully directed towards the human future, specifically when it comes to the Republic of Croatia towards the future of the Republic of Croatia. I stay away from really not getting into any unmarked councils here, but let me just quote one author, Jean-Paul Sartra, he says "Gods and kings are the most afraid of human freedom." Why are they afraid of human freedom? Because the gods and kings know that humans are free. When a man realizes that he is free and starts to practice his own freedom, then we will certainly not have such laws as to guarantee minimum compensation, but then we will have laws that will develop employment, which will develop labour movement, laws that will not be directed towards that minimum and one that will enable workers and their families to survive and survive on the historic stage, but rather be a world of free people and a world in which the gods and kings who have taken liberty will silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33232	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about demand for labour rights. When we talk about demand for labour rights, then we need to see where the Croatian employment is and if we have any Croatian jobs at all. Is this the legislative body and all the governments that led after the Homeland War essentially brought out work on extremity and is there this extra value that these people created before and during the formation of the Republic of Croatia? Is this law that is good, which has certain shifts, of course workers' rights should always be greater and not just guaranteed 3 salaries in bankruptcy minimum. But there's a shift ahead and we need to support every shift. Where is the worker in Croatia today? Did any employer who came to the property through privatisation answer for not paying the worker's salary? Is there in Croatia at all this concept of employment in principle by God and by man, that one who works for is obliged to pay him, not that man has no bread for his children? By observing Croatia geographically, when we see the demographic movement itself, one of the key problems is the attitude towards employment. When we look at all the companies that are privatized and that have disappeared from these areas, so we can start from my Split-Dalmatia County, we need to talk about the Dalmatian factory, about women who have not received no kunas, but these women have been exploited for years without pay what is a crime. It was done by Italian owners, Italian company owners, they certainly couldn't have done it in Italy. We even allowed the law that foreign owners exploited our women in this case at the factory of the end of Sinj, it happened similarly in Kamensko, it happened similarly, in fact the employment in Croatia brought the question of whether there were any rights of workers. It is only because the judiciary and the laws, whether beyond privatisation has happened even worse, even worse than privatisation, that is a pre-nuptial settlement where then the legislator and then the government essentially only favored its party or political sponsors by shutting down means and thus the employment. This shift for workers is good, it is ambitious but unfortunately we are in a position to ask ourselves if there is any employment in Croatia at all, and in what percentage, it is ambitious but unfortunately we are in a position to ask ourselves whether there is at all employment in Croatia and in what percentage, it is ambitious but unfortunately we have been brought into a position to ask ourselves if there is even employment in Croatia and in what percentage it is, it is ambitious but unfortunately we are in a position to ask ourselves whether there is even employment in Croatia and what percentage. We had a shipbuilding. Where are the shipbuilding workers? Well, here it is, the big Split shipyard. They're in Asia now, Korea. The highest quality and best workers they've ever created, from welders to engineers, designers. We lost our jobs. How to restore employment, that is the question, the key question, not the laws to please tycoons and lobbies who are laughing at this debate today, while many of these workers whose tycoons are due to pay, who should be in prison and beat the stone, because this is the worst crime not to pay the man what he has earned, take away his family bread, and this is a key problem which is also on the demographic picture because that is why our planes are now loaded in one direction towards foreign countries. This shift is coming and I hope it's not too late and we're aware it's too late. We are aware that those who have left Slavonia, left their estates, that it is not a problem to invest in livestock farming now, there is no problem investing in shipbuilding, but who will work for us? We've lost human resources and potential, that's the key to the problem. It's not easy to create a simple welder in a shipyard, let alone an engineer, a designer, and we know we were in the shipbuilding first. We know we had great people in livestock, farmers. So we have empty Croatia, we have no jobs and agriculture at all, nor the legislators and previous governments have cared about it at all, except for the favors of the tycoon lobbys that today raise their empires around Croatia, which are why today they bring the Croatian economy as hostages and certain Todorovi, Tedeschi and I don't know who and what way they came, guessing at everything they have and basically holding back the entire Republic, the whole economy and there's a possibility that they can bring us back to the Stone Age. But they're not the primary culprits, they're the main culprits. There was a primary culprit here. Yes, for workers' rights, it should be by God and by man, that they are created, because they create additional value but it is time to stand behind workers firmly and not behind lobbys that support political various options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33234	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Bulju for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33235	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetić, therefore I was encouraged by your part of the debate in which you spoke about humanity or humanity. So let's say for an introduction, when someone says they're rich in work, ask them whose. You, on several occasions, were sort of entrenched when you mentioned Marxism and Marx, Marx. I don't think that's necessary, because Marx was a very smart man who understood relationships very well in society. The fact that he believed that these relationships could be changed by violent or other methods of changing social relations is another topic. But what happened to us, and we were a country in transition, too, is not good. We've, all right, declared that relationship in society a bad ideology bad. However, we also declared the fruits of that system to be bad. And then there's the privatisation, all those evils that actually hit us. And now the question is, will tomorrow, let's call him that dream or a plan of 200 wealthy families whether he'll finally come to collect tomorrow? It just didn't come to life and it's not good. An employer who gets rich and doesn't pay his salary, so he should put it in jail. It's not about those employers who come into business difficulties. They need help. But those who get rich at the same time, and don't pay their wages, that's another problem. And then finally we call on all this again, this law should certainly be welcomed especially because it is also in line with EU rules because it is, in fact, our destiny. And the closer we get to that, the better. However, if institutions do not continue to do their job, this will not happen. First of all, I mean labour inspections, the IRS and all those in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33236	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Answer, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33237	You're absolutely right, pal, except in that part, that I'm so hard-wired by Marx. I don't even build on Marx, and I think I'm the only professor at the University of Zadar who teaches him Marx and Marxism especially because of what segment. In that segment, society and the world can be viewed through the system of work. That's exactly the system I was talking about as an opportunity for the world to change. When we have a product and a manufacturing process we have some short-term good that disappears, that's what the production process is about. We have a long-term value in our work. We symbolically reduced her to money. That's why I said that in the employment and these rights that we're discussing money can't be in the first place, we have to look at money in its instrumental value, which is, we, the worker worked, he embezzled himself. When we work and now we're sitting in the Assembly, we're installing our lives at this time, we're left with the life of someone else we might have, we decided to sit here. The worker chose their life of consciousness precisely on a working time scale, and that working time, it has a symbolic form that is expressed through money, and that money guarantees a lot of other opportunities or options for the world to be different. By that look I accept and do not build on this Marxist view of the world, but under this vision we are in one historic position of dissuasion of workers it is unequivocally. The worker is a man and a worker working not only produces what is within the work process, but produces new humanity. We want a different future, and as a one time or model of a different future, I see this law despite the weaknesses it has.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33238	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33239	Dear Vice President, I see that you came from the real sector of production and that you had some work experience probably before the war, unlike many, so you can talk about it that way, and I'll talk about it in a similar way. So in my Vinkovci, I call them mine because I still live there I haven't changed my address, my last name, or anything else. In my Vinkovci there used to be dozens of companies where there were thousands and thousands of workers and no one was moving, but they were hiring there. So there was a company called Spachva. The same Spačva was involved in the processing of the logs of the famous Slavonian oak. So, the woods are around our entire county on our doorstep. The hulls of all raw materials are within reach. The machines were in Spachva, the city didn't fall, they were safe. We had workers and all those who ran that production. And that's when the privatisation happens. That's when a Skegra happens that many Skegraci before and after who took one part of that Spachva, whether 50, 60, 70% doesn't matter. They took it and they ruined that same Spachva. Many machines have been released. The company fired many workers who ended up either at the bureau or at the cemetery. The same company now works with reduced capacity, and raw materials continue to grow in Slavonian forests. And what happens to that raw material? Every day, a bunch of peddlers go the way of Zagreb, the way of the sea, and I don't know what the way for Italy is, and I don't know where. Slavonian peasant, a Slavonian resident who is eaten by mosquitoes, who lives by the forest can't even get heating for the winter by 280 to 340 kuna cubic. I'm picking up a company in Babina Greda that's doing electricity production gets a cubic and oak at 28 kuna. In this way Slavonia and Spačva and Cibalija and Vinteks and all companies were destroyed only in the favor of certain Škegrici and similar companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33240	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Cule for the replica. Answer, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33241	My colleague Culey, of course I come from a working peasant family, my whole life since I was born, I've always worked in the family. Here's the Homeland War happened when I was just over 18, and then I was a professional soldier after the Homeland War. But you were telling the truth. Slavonia was a fortune. From the territory of only my Cetinski region, people went to Slavonia and they created their own family. Well, for example, in Verbanja, all people are in the area mostly from... It's the trile end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a rich plain, a forest. What happened? There's been a robbery of resources, a destruction of resources, everything that's good, but targeted is today you're talking about Spachva, a resource that was the potential for the development of the woodworking industry. Today our sawmills Croatian owners, have certain quotas that can get at a preferential price what is good because they create additional value, but the fact is that thousands of cubes of a fictitious company also get the privilege of getting the finished product as domestic producers, and in fact they directly export and throw that money into their pocket, while our people, you said well about the heating, have to pay in fact and have no money left without money. The working class and peasants that is inextricably, so the people who deal with agriculture were targeted so that today, in your first replica, you said you were slaves on your land because they would be forced to sell the land and dig for a foreign ruler, to be servants on it and on your land, to be basically oppressed and enslaved. This is the worst thing that has happened in Croatian society, that the Croatian man will have to sell his country and for this reason we must defend labor and agriculture urgently, but the question is it too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33242	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would briefly like to refer to that part of my colleague Vučetić's debate first in the part where he talked about the concept of employment itself, and then to that part of the debate in which he wondered if there was even more employment in Croatia. And somehow, it seems to me that their joint debate was a great combination of theoretical reasoning by colleagues Vučetic and practices by colleagues of Bulja. And you have encouraged me to think a lot about when we are considering the concept of employment in general and what the employment should mean, and when we refer to the fact that really working in the form in which it should exist today in Croatia, unfortunately it no longer exists, you conclude that it has indeed become a victim of a game of gods and you wonder what it is with workers who have lost their jobs, who is even responsible for their cancellations, which is with small people who have lost their existence. And when you compare it and realize that no one asks for it anymore, and when you compare it with the public service workers, then you realize that someone was lucky enough to go to a state service paradise, and others may not have had that much luck, so they ended up in a hell of production work. Someone took their bread, impoverished it, and the consequence of it is the inability to educate children, and the consequence of this inability is that young people go abroad, depopulations, and all that we face today. And I therefore agree that this law is a shift, therefore qualitative towards restoring the dignity of workers. And yet I wonder what practice will ultimately take place when the law begins to apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33244	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic, on the line. Reply Dear colleague Marko Vučetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33245	Here's a thank you for the replica. This presentation of mine and my colleague Bulja can be reduced to a common denominator, which is that we do not agree to be dragged into Croatia by a small or large spirit of feudal logic. We want to have a job, we want workers to have their working hours, to have their family time, to have their own existential time, and not to be people who are delivered to these human gods, but also those human gods, when we observe them, are gods whose basic value is money. I'm seriously asking myself, as a philosopher, what kind of brain activity they have in the works at all, if you can bring down what can have an only instrumental value to the final value, to the ultimate goal of an action. So the laws are always necessary and we see the laws. The laws were passed not because of the smarts, but because of the people you must somehow contain. We are trying to contain the greed of those owners or employers who were so gramistical or incompetent that they took advantage of the workers and their time, but destroyed and destroyed themselves in their own incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33246	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. According to us, one law concerning a million-and-a-half people working in Croatia is a law aimed at working in Croatia without receiving a salary. And that's what Croatia is famous for in the EU. It's not like we're boasting about it because there's not one chance in the EU or in the regulated countries that the worker is working without getting paid. In regulated countries if the employer cannot pay the salary then the company goes into bankruptcy and workers are charged out of bankruptcy. Therefore, this law, which is in fact a recycled law on the payment of workers' claims in the event of the bankruptcy of employers that is extended to the essential part that is related to the payment of salaries, is a law which I hope will receive support in the Assembly. As far as the SDP club is concerned, we'll vote for this bill. As one of the problems affecting the field of labour relations is definitely the problem of non-payment of salaries. The right to pay is one of the most important institutions of labour law. It represents sources of existence, existential security and provides a certain standard of living for workers and members of their family. In the context of wider social wage observations, they are an indicator of the economic developments and of the arrangements of the labour market. In Croatia, wages started to rise, and I hope that with the increased work of inspection services, especially labour inspectorates and tax administrations by the end of this year should not have a single worker who works and does not receive the salary. The right of workers to pay wages which ensures themselves and families a decent and free life is a constitutional category, and therefore should be at the heart of the interests of the conduct of state bodies. Since a legal, economic, social and fiscal characteristics have been paid, there are a number of regulations that directly and indirectly affect its payment or do not pay off. I must say that the only law that has been effective has led to the reduction in the number of those working and not receiving salaries in Croatia is the last amendment to the laws on the payment of workers' claims in the bankruptcy of employers. But let's go through what's legal, which lets us get acquainted with what the laws tell us when we're talking about default pay. So here is the Labour Act as the general and most important regulation governing labour relations in Croatia, the provisions of the law say, the employer's obligation to pay the employee the contracted salary, i.e. the salary, and to deliver to the worker the account from which it is visible how these amounts are determined. Inspection of law enforcement shall be carried out by the labour inspectorate. A worker whose salary has not been paid and whose account is not paid shall be able to report the employer to the labour inspector whose inspectors may then by oral decision in the record order the employer to... delivers to the worker a bill due and not paid wages and the fine is between 61 thousand and 100 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law is very clear and that by law, again we come to the fact that the problem with law enforcement, that it is simply a law that clearly on working in this part did not win success and did not lead to workers getting paid. The minimum wage law is a law that ensures that workers in Croatia have a minimum labour price. What should be clearly said is that we are not satisfied with the effect of the Minimum Salary Act, which was adopted in 2013 where the minimum wage in Croatia was intended to be 50% of the average salary, so the SDP gave in the minimum wage procedure which is intended to reach 50% of the minimum wage in Croatia incremental year 2. Because minimum wage should provide a worker with a decent life and that with these salaries you can pay all the life needs they have and, among other things, schooling with minimum wage is, if you are not in Zagreb with this one which is now 2620 you will very difficult to allow your child to go to school outside of the city or, in which he lives. The minimum wage according to the latest data is something that has been followed very closely by inspections. However, the most effective way of doing so was to introduce a unique form of contributions of the recipients and taxes, the JPPD, a form that finally led to our order in Croatia, so that we can say who received the salary, how much pay he receives, how much he receives on his hands, how much through the diaries, as much as in any other way. So we have brought some order back to the labour market but obviously still not enough, because if that were the case, then the introduction of that form would no longer be a working worker in Croatia and not receiving a salary. The strongest or most significant was the change in the criminal law, where we put in criminal law that failure to pay is a criminal offence. And he says who doesn't pay a share or a full salary once or more workers will be punished by a prison of up to 3 years, a very powerful provision of the law. But here, according to the latest data from the beginning of 2015 to the end of February of this year, 99 verdicts were made, of which 76 powermakers, none of the employers within that deadline supported the penalty for non-payment of salaries. Therefore, although we have made it very clear in the law that this is a criminal offence, it is obvious that the case law denies us because there are many reasons why the employer, why the defence employers did not pay the salary. Therefore, the very point in the criminal law is something that did not lead to less workers in Croatia who, or that we do not have at all workers who work and do not receive wages. The only thing that was successful, which is based on data, is the Law on ensuring the claims of workers in the bankruptcy of employers because through the bankruptcy law that puts workers in the first payment order did not lead to workers being charged in the part in which they were expected. Because first of all, workers have the ability to launch the employer's bankruptcy due to payouts. They don't do it because they're afraid for that job thinking that there it is, and it's a good place to work, so that's what it is. Maybe the pay will come, maybe the company will get rid of the debt, the burden, so I better be there. If I go to the Employment Service who will hire me especially when we talk about older workers. So the bankruptcy law did not win success, and workers are not charged with mah from bankruptcy, but from the state budget funds through the Agency for Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of bankruptcy. So again the law that did not lead us to the goal, which is that there are no workers in Croatia who do not work and do not receive wages. It was therefore necessary to try on other measures to enable the repressive apparatus to force employers to pay the worker’s salary or to go bankrupt. So there's no more doubt. If you can't pay the worker his due salary, then you're mature for bankruptcy. If the workers won't launch the bankruptcy, then you'll launch the bankruptcy by force of the law. And therefore, in our time, the SDP government has changed a bankruptcy law that says if the company is three months in a blockade automatically triggers bankruptcy. So there are no more delays when they're going to be at what time. And then we tied it to the payoffs. We said if the employer doesn't pay his salary within three months, then he automatically goes into bankruptcy because he's been blocked for three months. Who's blocking it? It is blocked by the Financial Agency on a proposal from the Labour Inspectorate, and based on the IRS data on whether or not salaries have been paid. And the law came in 2014 which I can say won success. Here's the law of all these laws that I've listed is the only effective reduction in the number of workers who work and do not receive salaries and the number of employers who do not pay their wages. So let's just remind ourselves that since 1 May 2012, when, in Croatia, according to the Ministry of Finance, there were 205,000 711 workers who worked and employers did not pay their wages or contributions. Only by introducing the mandatory one that could not be paid if the contributions were not paid did the number halved within six months, where instead of 205,000 workers fell to 122,000 workers. Before the law was passed, in 2013, 83431 workers worked, and employers did not pay contributions and it was about 45,000 companies. By implementing the law from 2014 to today, according to the latest data, this number has dropped dramatically from 83,000 to 10670 workers from 45,000 employers to 3423 employers and this is the record, the accuracy that the law works and I am glad that this government recognized it and this law, and here today is before us who and then had to bear a different name, but it was because of the speed and desire to establish that institute as soon as possible. Then there was no change in the name of the law. So the law is the same as the 2013 law, changed name. But the bottom line remains the same, and the bottom line is that in Croatia, I expect that the role in the first row of the Labour Inspectorate is to make the inspections more difficult and to remove the most from the labour market from the employers who use them, or do not pay them the wages. I am therefore sorry to hear from the prime minister these days saying that the State Inspectorate will be reunited into one institution. I have to say that the State Inspectorate was the way it was and it was working, was the bed of corruption and nepotism. I note that the State Inspectorate has never entered the State Audit. You don't have any State Audit findings, and that was one of the reasons why the State Inspectorate disbanded. And if there is a team of roads that the Labour Inspectorate is involved in this State Inspectorate it will lead to a problem again in the work of the Inspectorate, because it must definitely belong to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, it has shown that it can work, that people who work there are doing their job well and one of the results is the decline of the number of workers who work and do not receive wages. I live for the day when we will receive a report from the Tax Administration that there are no workers in Croatia who work and do not receive salaries. This means that we have regulated the labour market and that we have become a European regulated state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33248	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this debate. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33249	You spoke about a number of laws that had a purpose and intended to enable the worker to exercise his rights, but the fact and the fundamental question is whether there are any jobs in Croatia at all and what was it brought to? In us, the education system is no longer defined according to demand and sometimes we need a number of variables to start or a number of textile workers. And today, schools, the education system did not adapt to high school programs, so at times agricultural schools were needed. Now they're destroyed, they still exist, and there's no agriculture. So the question is, is if we have a welder who's been quality and worked in Split's Square, and now he's gone to Korea as a quality welder and works for other countries and he's creating himself, he's fighting for the family, and whoever they've made, all these laws that you've mentioned are dead, here's what this paper is worth. And I'm talking to the judiciary today about the justice system where Minister Sprlje of Most, if corruption, crime doesn't change, everything at the expense of the workers. All in favor of the tycoon, you know that privatisation was a criminal, pre-warrant settlement even worse. Until it changes and disappears behind the workers, and all of this came from this House, all of it is an illusion, all of it is a fog is a destroyed worker. The worker is last in line. Only the workers I mentioned in the Dalmatians who worked bloody for years for the foreign owner, the Ladini brothers, lost their kuna. These women are now looking to work somewhere in the farm, they're not good for bread, for their family. Their kids are leaving, they don't have kids to go to school for a marenda. It's a job. We destroyed the labor force. And the writing of the law, the question of perseverance, this is progress, but will we be able to implement it, that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33250	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33251	Thank you very much. Mr. Bully, after your discussion, it would have turned out that nothing was right before, and if it all started with the Most, then here, which isn't true. So the laws are written, some are more efficient, some are less efficient. In my debate, I pointed out which laws were effective, which were not. This law is definitely effective and it is a law that will lead to it if it is properly implemented and if we do not re-enter the State Inspectorate where corruption and nepotism will be again as it has been, then it will work because the laws can be best written if they are not implemented then, and that is our pain, we have good laws but we do not implement them. Here is the law I am pleased to have a good time and to be carried out strictly which is the result of and by the number of workers who work and do not receive the salary, so in Croatia there should be no working worker in the future and not be paid. And as for the workers, the time has come for the workers to pay, it is time for the Variators in Shkver to have much higher wages, for people in tourism to have much higher wages, for waiters and chefs to have much higher salaries. But now we're going back to the role of this government, there's the secretary of state, we've, by one strange measure of government, abolished the permanent season. Here today I've received people who work as permanent seasons and are happy that they signed the contract for three years so they won't be passed by this new law. So these are those measures that have shown that Croatia can go forward and have good laws, but again, on the other hand, I'm sorry that it's trying to solve things the way that it all starts over again, nothing before is worth what's not true. So, clearly, we should say that we must gather our heads and take what is best, and this law is an extremely good law and we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33252	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. Next up, Steve Culey picked up the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33253	Your Honor, Vice President. My friend Mrs., since we haven't signed any non-attack agreements here, I'm going to attack. Why am I going to attack? You have, in time, made a list of shames on which you put all employers who are liable to tax, pension, health care and others, these people are on the list of shame only because at one point they were unable to pay off gave famous three salaries or obligations due to the negative movements in the economy in Croatia that impose on them the other. They didn't blame themselves for the situation they were in. These same people have their employees who give up not three but six salaries in good faith to help their employer survive in the market at all, waiting for some better time or light at the end of the tunnel, as they like to say. These same people are doomed to set foot in indifference and poverty, for whom? Some who make it easier to get money and share it with each other. Not to mention your wife's company, which remained 10 million kuna in debt, and for which were discovered the ways in which she would repay those funds, I'm coming from one of the small entrepreneurs didn't have that chance. It's about the attack. And what I said about the sources of funding for some companies, how some can have a salary of 24,000 kunas, 50,000 kunas, and someone can't get theirs. I see you're laughing with your colleague Stazic, so I'll mention the company if it's private from a certain Dark Stazic where Nikola Hodalj, who served as a tourist military service at the theatre in less than 4.5 months, raises 54 thousand kuna. And then let Slavica have the same period of contract work at the student service period of 17 days 20 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33254	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stevie Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33255	As possible in the same country, two different parameters, two groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33256	Your time is up, colleague Culey. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33257	Who's going to be honest, Mr. Culey, as far as I know, you're in charge of taxes, you and your wife.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33258	Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, I ask you to make your statement and adjust your style and your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33259	I didn't say anything that was offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33260	I ask you nicely once again to adjust your expression and your speech to this place honorably in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33261	I'm sorry if I offended someone. As far as debt and debt itself is concerned, it is not about any debt or debt, it is not about any tax, it is the relationship between the multinational company of the party and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance which is in the process of resolving and it is not about my wife, our family, or her company, it was clear in the media that announced the deficit and so much about it. It is clear that in a political struggle you want to blacken your opponent but I think this law should have been discussed in a different way because this law was never attacked. I don't know what this is for, but I understand what your political motives are. This is a law that is good for workers, this is a law that allowed workers to receive salaries because in those three months when the employer is blocked they receive minimum wage from the Agency for the Payment of Workers' Claims. So we're going to support the law in the SDP, and this was obviously just your production because you probably haven't been attacking one of us on this side for a long time. I'm not going to use these methods, but I think we should discuss the metrics here, the law, not politics. The law is good, I believe you will support it too, the law is the one that will allow no worker in Croatia who works and does not receive wages. And that pillar of shame, or the number of non-paying employers, also had its effect because some employers later began to pay salaries, so they had money in their account and wanted them to be credited unambiguously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33262	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this answer. Dear fellow Stazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33263	The Rules of Procedure, in Article 33, which speaks of the obligations and rights of the President of the Parliament and of the chairperson he replaces, have been violated. Dear Vice President, you are allowing colleagues Cule to insult counterpart Miranda Mrsic, to repeat some slanders that have already been condemned as slanderers and not react. Once Miranda Mrsic tells the truth that he is actually in tax debt, you immediately interrupt your colleague Miranda and say you will not allow such a debate. Well, either you don't let Culea, so you don't have to either Miranda or let both of you. Article 33 obliges, but this is not just a question of Article 33, it is the question of the most normal relationship with colleagues. You're usually one of the vice presidents who runs the session best. I'm telling you this in the best way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33264	I thank my esteemed colleague Stazic for his eloquent thoughts. You didn't listen well when I broke up with my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic. I didn't even mention any insults, I didn't even notice that Mr. Miranda Mrsic insulted anyone, personally, nor did I notice it in the style and expression of Mr. Steve Culej, but I was talking about the words used by Miranda Mrsic that they were inappropriate in this High House so I don't see any reason why the Rules of Procedure was injured. If you think you are right, I appreciate and respect your opinion, please contact the relevant Committee on the Constitution which will give the relevant decision. Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Katarina Ivanković Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33265	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you, in fact, everyone who supports this law, that is, this bill, and you see these positive shifts, especially in the context of the simplification, the promotion of the law, the expansion of the circle of people who can be involved in the use of their rights, and thank you very much for that. What I would like to say this way is that I would like to deny an absolute untruth related to the measure of permanent season within the framework of active labour market policy measures. Not that the measure has not been abolished but one measure of 9 active labour market policies has been simplified, it has been improved and is intended for a greater circle of users than it has been so far in order to provide full and true information to the entire Croatian public and I feel a great need on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System to point out that this measure is one of the 9 measures that apply and all interested people can address the Employment Office and already start using this measure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33266	I would like to thank the esteemed Secretary of State Katarina Ivankovic Knezevic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33267	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to welcome you all to the honor of the Secretary of State with my associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I will discuss today's bill of law that has caused great interest. First of all, I would like to pay my respects to all the workers in the Republic of Croatia. The topic is very important and we are aware that the right to work is a constitutional category. It is also through the Labour Act protected by working alone through the conclusion of the Labour Treaty, through the conditions which the worker must have with the employer and through all the rights that must be achieved during the working relationship. And also this law adds to the protection of workers' rights in the part where the employer's claim is protected by the employer in case the employer becomes insolvent. This proposal went through the consultation process with the interested public. The current Law on insurance of workers' claims in the event of employer bankruptcy was adopted in 2008 and amendments to that law were adopted in 2013 and 2015. This law, as already pointed out here, provides for the rights of workers in the bankruptcy of employers by actually implementing the special protection of that part of the demand for workers from working relationship and ensuring that the most important payment of part of the claim on the burden of the state budget is made while the remaining part of the claim is carried out by the worker in a bankruptcy procedure. For the implementation of the protection of these rights, the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims was established by law in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy. What's important here is to say that there have really been different bankruptcy proceedings in the last ten years. And what may be the biggest problem, that most bankruptcy proceedings, I would say, ends before it begins, or according to the bankruptcy law itself, if there are no conditions for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, which is that at least basic payment claims, unpaid workers' salaries can be paid out of bankruptcy, meaning if that value of the bankruptcy is so small that they can't even provide the costs of the bankruptcy process, then bankruptcy ends practically before it even started, or bankruptcy proceedings are closed. In such cases, this really raises the rights of workers to their claims which are not paid by the employer, and in that segment, I think that this law has really protected those rights of workers to a large extent. A significant newspaper of the current law was introduced by amendments to the law in 2015 to protect the existence of workers at a socially acceptable level by paying minimum salaries by the agency in the event of the employer’s account being blocked due to the inability of forced payment, i.e. non-payment of wages. Of course, these amendments to the law have led to improvements in the protection of workers' rights, which was also talked about by fellow Mrsic in the previous debate, and of course by applying other rules that protect workers' rights. I'd just like to get some statistics here so we can keep an eye on the situation as a result of the application of this law. FINA submitted 1070 proposals for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure for legal persons who have outstanding payment grounds for a continuous period of 120 days and who have employees since 1 September 2015 and which have submitted 19725 applications for the implementation of the reduced bankruptcy procedure. It's a procedure for legal persons when they don't have employees. At the end of 2015, according to FINA's data in the blockade, 21043 legal entities with the total value of unexecuted payment bases amounting to HRK 18.1 billion. In the blockade of 120 days and more, 17093 legal entities with a debt of 16.34 billion kuna were employed by 7912 workers. The number of bankruptcys in Croatia increased during 2016, according to some data by 41.6% compared to 2015. During 2016, a total of 878 other entities went into bankruptcy proceedings, and only 87 of them came out of the bankruptcy process, which says that most of the bankruptcy ends in fact by shutting down the company, i.e. companies, and few of them actually successfully emerge from the bankruptcy process. At the end of 2016, there were 6052 entities in the pre-fashion proceedings. Due to unexecuted payment grounds, for example on 30 November 2016 31252 business entities were blocked, which is 1.3% higher than in October 2016, which means that these data, from month to month, are in a negative trend. The total value of non-executed basis for paying business entities was around, at that time around 18.16 billion kuna, which is 2.1% less than in October 2016. Compared to 2015, the number was blocked, the total number was reduced in 2016 and the unexploited payment base was reduced to 7.28 billion kuna, which is approximately 28.6%. So this law is really important and we need to have it and it can really contribute to protecting workers' claims. What is the newspaper in this proposal in relation to the current law other than those of the rapporteur, which is to harmonize the concepts with the terms of bankruptcy and executive law. It is important to say that this proposal also transposes the law into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015. The proposal for this law also resolves the shortcomings observed in the application of the Institute of Insurance for the Search of Workers in the event of the blocking of the employer's accounts observed in the procedural provisions. The general provisions also more precisely define the concept of workers and increase the availability of protection for former workers in a way that protects the diseases for which labour claims are provided in the event of opening a bankruptcy proceedings against the employer is extended, i.e. from the current three months, to six months, which is significant. This bill also excludes the possibility of cumulating the exercise of rights in the same period by different grounds, e.g. in the case of opening a bankruptcy proceedings against the employer and in the case of a blockade of the employer's account. Since it is now possible for the backpack to receive two minimum salaries per two basics for the same period, which is not really the purpose of the law. What is also important is the greater protection against the current law in this proposal, and that is that it is prescribed that the charges are exempt from pay and salary compensation and also the unpaid fees for unused vacations, severances and fine-tuned compensation due to sustained injury to work or occupational illness. What is important to say is that this proposal also makes it impossible for members of the management and executive directors of trade societies and cooperative managers not to commit themselves to applying for forced payment to the financial agency in case they do not pay their wages, but they do have that obligation for all other workers, and that is because they are responsible persons and make decisions affecting the business and management of companies and therefore I believe that this is justified. This proposal also enables the Agency to apply the provisions of a specific regulation governing the order of payment of the claim from the employer's account of the outstanding amount of salary, salary or severance payment to the employer in the same way as the worker. For the implementation of this law, the funds are secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. The rules laid down for the implementation of this law shall be adopted within 90 days of the entry into force of the law and shall remain in force until their entry into force by the current rules which are set out in the law itself. In the end, I would like to say that I believe that this Bill on Insurance of Workers' Searches is well prepared, that it is a valuable contribution to the protection of workers' rights and that it is qualitatively better compared to the current regulation for the reasons why the level of protection of workers' claims is expanded than the employer. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this bill, since the assumption that we all want basic labour rights, and among them it is certainly the right to pay, the right to pay during sickness, the right to severance, the right to compensation for unused vacations, and the right to compensation for damages suffered in the event of injury to work or occupational illness, are at least in one reasonable and socially acceptable part protected in cases of insolvencies of the employer. I believe that's why we'll all be in favor of passing this law and that it will be implemented in a quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33268	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33269	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here is representative Jelkovac, you have worked out this topic well, but the question arises of the cause of all these blocked employers' accounts, i.e. legal person, issue of blocked accounts of natural persons. So we see one great indifference in this system, and the consequence of this indifference is insolvency itself. So legal persons simply aren't able to pay salaries... to workers in the good part of the case. How does this government try to address this problem, which is the purpose of the central bank and monetary policy in that part to increase monetary mass in circulation and make liquidity healthier and then to make these obligations easier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33270	I'd like to thank my esteemed fellow Skiboli on the line. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33271	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, yes, of course, everything you've been talking about is a cause not since yesterday. He's been piling up for years. So we had one crisis that wasn't just a crisis in the Republic of Croatia, we could say it was a global crisis that certainly left a deep mark in our society. Of course it's terrible when it comes to insolvency of a legal person, but in my humble personal opinion, I think it's even worse when it comes to individual insolvency because then I think his right to life is threatened. I think it's the task of all of us in this society to fight it together, of course you won't see the results overnight. All that we are trying and through the normative framework is a contribution to improving the situation, I don't think we can safely in such a short time where you and I are now discussing answers to such questions, but it's important that we are aware of these problems in society, that we are facing them openly and looking for answers to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33272	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Jelkovac, first and foremost, I would like to join your expression of respect for all the Croatian workers you expressed at the beginning of your debate and, of course, share your position and yours with all our workers. In the debate, you have excellently analyzed all the newspapers that this Bill on Insurance of Workers' Searches brings and I will refer to that part of your debate in which you have highlighted and explained the right to work as a constitutional category and, in that sense, pointed out that this law is also related to the Law on the Protection of Workers’ Rights, in particular in cases where workers' rights are involved in bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings. What I also personally welcome, and this is the newspaper that this law brings in terms of ensuring the payment of demand to the worker in a way that half, half of the demand is paid directly from the state budget and the other half from the bankruptcy mass. You yourself stressed that we have all kinds of bankruptcy procedures, very different and that not rarely a good part of them end up before they started because of the fact that they are different, different amounts of bankruptcy and in this case the question arises if the bankruptcy mass is small or too small which will be with the working claims in that case. Somehow, here is the fact that this law is trying to solve this by means of this formulation, which certainly gives a steady hope that if the worker has already lost his job that he will not remain unsuspecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33274	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic, for this replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retirement, Honored colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33275	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the insurance of first-reading workers' enquiries. So even if there was much to work on this law, it would be quite enough time to fix it, but here I still have to have one completely different approach because I think that this product from the ministry that we have ahead of us is not a product of the discontinuity of politics, but it is a product of the continuity of the efforts of people who are in the Ministry of Labour to fight certain problems and no matter how governments change these people are there and trying to find solutions to certain problems. So we have one continual improvement of standards in this area and protection of workers. I was there in 1998 and until 2003 I was a member of the Committee of Believers in certain bankruptcys as a union activist when all of this was gone. So all this stuff that's contained here is big, big, big progress compared to that time. We can be critics of a couple of excellence but we have no basis but simply such bill proposals should be supported and tried to make their contribution that if we find some petty flaw that we all together make such a law even better. Of course, this is also about termological alignment with other laws, this is about harmonising with European conventions, this is about talking about harmonising with let's say good practice. So what works is let's still improve and what doesn't work let's eliminate, and that's why this is a good bill that came to our representatives' hands and I think we can all happily support it. What, of course, he does not solve all the problems of the world, this amount of minimum wage does not solve this law and the possibilities of this society does not solve this law but he is trying to solve some really crisis situations and existential shocks for those who remain without pay, regardless of whether the bankruptcy of the employer is opened or the employer is only currently insolvent and in some subsequent period can be returned to say again in terms of normal business. What makes me particularly happy is that it is my profession, protection at work, and I know that so far people who have had the rightful judgment for compensation for injury at work or professional illness, unless they have reported this request in good time, have been excluded here more favourably solved this issue and ensure at least to a certain level that they will settle their claim. Certainly, the word “question ” itself does not significantly change the quality of the demand but rather what is really the content of this law. What I would have had is a tiny little remark because for me it is more quality than consulting with the interested public to support social partners. It is not in the light of this law, however, explicit that all social partners have given support to this bill but it is very important because social partnership is something to build, where trust between social partners creates quality. And so, I say, feel free to write in the second reading that there was also a debate on the Economic and Social Council which is an institutional form of social dialogue, i.e. an agreement between the social partners. And that is why I would suggest that you do not, in article 19, confuse the President of the Administrative Council of the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Searches, that it must be a full mandate as a representative of the Government. Take these people and representatives of other social partners, and there are representatives of employers in the Governing Council, Deputy Prime Minister and a representative of the union of higher levels. Give them a little derailment, try to let them each take equal responsibility for the agency's functioning. I'm not telling this to the director of the agency, it's a different story. But the President of the Governing Council could rotate in the mandate, and each of the social partners should assume responsibility for the functioning of the agency. What is still to be said, and that is finally one dose let's say little fear, you know, because for the implementation of this law in the budget are secured in two items somewhere around 9 million euros or 68, that we speak in roughly millions of kuna. I'm just afraid of one. If Agrokor sneezes and there's insolvency or bankruptcy, I'm afraid these wouldn't be small numbers. So until the second reading, we'll all know more. None of us here are sure I want to, but according to the announcements can happen, so I think that part of the part about providing funding from the state budget for such situations should also be taken care of. Here's so much from me on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retired We will support this law with pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33276	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja, Davor Vlaovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33277	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected rapporteurs. on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club, we will support the adoption of this law because, of course, the Croatian Peasant Party also advocates that no worker in the Republic of Croatia is working without getting paid for it. Unfortunately, there are still over 2900 legal persons and over 400 natural persons and crafts that do not pay salaries in Croatia and over 9000 workers do not receive salaries. And for this reason, this bill of law certainly goes to the meeting to help these workers who have done their work in a fair way, and unfortunately this is why employers do not pay their wages. And the question arises, since we have already heard that non-payment is a crime and that we have had hundreds of proceedings in Croatian courts, and it is strange that none of the employers who have not paid their wages have yet ended up in prison. And here we need to see how this unequal legal practice and the non-use of this part in protecting workers' rights is better implemented and what kind of message we also send to employers and workers when it comes to their rights. I would remind myself that during the previous period through various bankruptcys, we had different legal practices that some companies were allowed to operate in a blockade year, two before they opened up to bankruptcy while in other cases that had not conditionally stated political bankruptcy protection was opened after three or six months of blockade. And what is devastating and what they ask me and us HSS which with the rights of workers from the previous period, because we have cases that still have bankruptcys that last 10, 15 years of Croatian justice and society did not end. For example, Jasinje in Slavonski Brod, Klas Nova Gradiška, Veterinary Station Slavonski Brod, Stjepan Sekulić Nova Gradiška and a series of other companies in Croatia still run bankruptcy and where workers have not yet achieved their rights to personal income and are in that category socially endangered or, unfortunately, they and their families have sought their jobs outside the Republic of Croatia which should certainly be prevented. And I would refer to this Article 15, where it is exempt from the right to apply to an agency of a member of a management or director of a company because they make decisions and thus influence the business of a company and therefore do not have the right to pay this salary. Okay. Perhaps the employer in good faith wanted to punish the employer in a certain way, but it is not always that employer to blame for the bad business of the company, business or craft because you often have cases that the state, public institutions and other public institutions owe to companies and thus bring them into a blockade whether it is a legal dispute or similar or simply for lack of money. In such cases, you should think about it. We, I suggest for a second reading if it can be established that they have done business in accordance with the law, that they have settled their obligations towards the state and workers, that even the owner of the company, if he cannot pay his salary not by his own fault, but also because, for example, someone else, the state, ministry, public agency or institution does not pay him some kind of demand, has the right and he submits a request for payment of three minimum wages as indicated for the workers. Or there's a real danger of making them go into the gray zone, because then through business, they're going to provide themselves with different cash flows, settle their claims, their income, turn it into property, and the workers are going to run out of wages, and the state, we, the taxpayers, will partially settle the claims of the workers through those three minimum salaries. Who's following that money flow? It's already been mentioned here. Inspects that they are fragmented and divided and ineffective and that it is necessary to reunite these inspections into one as was once a state inspectorate or similar and thus control the business of the company. There are now also forms that can and in this case certainly need property if it is established that the owner of the company or a member of the administration acquired property during the business, without paying the workers' salaries, and it must also come under the public's bat, or protect the rights of the workers, in a way to auction that property and to settle both the state and the workers' claims. I think it would be a very good contribution to have as little unpaid wages as possible in the future and to have as few employers as possible who don't pay their salaries without getting property by the law, and we have cases that happen. With regard to the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims, it is certainly good to give them specific powers, to have secured 68 million kuna in the state budget, but it is doubtful whether this will be a lot of funding. I would sincerely like not to take advantage of this too, that all workers get paid, that we do not have the requirements for paying through the agency, but through these announcements of problems in Agrokor, through a number of other companies that are in difficulty where we have to parallel with this law and the protection of workers' rights to find a model and way to stimulate the development and growth of the economy, how to encourage especially agricultural production in Slavonia and Baranja, how to protect workers from paying the salary and for a month, two days starting a new company and re-business, and leaving them on the labour market as employees and without any income. In this way, we contribute to this debate, and we suggest that these ambiguities are offered even until the second reading to protect even more workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33278	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33279	My colleague, I have one remark, and I would never agree to equalise the rights of workers and the rights of employers or members of the management and directors of the owners, especially with this explanation that you have proposed, and it says that otherwise they will seek a solution in the gray zone. I think that because of such a methodology of work, we have often found ourselves in the face of this particular problem that we are now dealing with, and I would never even their employers, management presidents and companies with workers. And if they want to look for their solution in the gray zone, then criminally they will answer because of this demand for such a solution is not the solution, but rather the creation of a problem. And this exhibit of yours just once again confirms that workers are especially poor workers, our only hope and the only strength in which we can find a new one of democracy is that we see them as surviving in the world without having anything but hope in justice, law and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33280	Thank you. The reply to the replica will be given by distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33281	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, I don't think we understand each other. I am fully for workers and workers' rights. But a member of the board is an employee of that company, and if this law says that the rules will regulate the model and way of control, application, payment, and who has the right, who doesn't, then I suggest that we think about this for reasons I don't want anyone to go into the gray zone but to be equal to the law. And we had practice from previous periods that a number of company owners had deliberately brought the company into bankruptcy, provided ourselves with yachts, apartments and apartments and that no one had responded. And I agree with you, he must be held accountable. But I told those who were found to have done business in accordance with the law, that they had not damaged neither the state nor the rights of workers, that they would consider that model so that everyone before the law would be equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33282	Thank you. Now we'll move on to individual debates. And the first will be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary and Associates. When we talk about this law that we will all agree on, or under the Labour Search Insurance Act, we must be aware of what it means and how much the problem is in Croatia today and blocked citizens and blocked companies and those who work, and who do not receive wages and those who could be and see how the state is dealing with it at all and how it solves the problems of its people. So today in Croatia we have 29.5,000 blocked companies, we have 329 thousand blocked citizens, unfortunately that number grows year after year. We're boasting today, here's the HDZ Representatives' Club today gave an overview of the situation it looks at with pink eyes, that in Croatia it's getting better every day, that the situation has improved dramatically, but my people are four thousand more blocked today than it was a month and a half, two days early in the year. 29.5 thousand companies are also in a blockade and tens of thousands of employees at the moment have the prospect of being users of the agency, or the Ministry of Labour, and of protecting them from claims that they may have towards employers. What about 10,670 people who work and don't get paid? Will they be helped to announce that the economy has moved forward and that it will be easier for them? How do we work as a society, and as a state, and as a government to help these people? Now someone mentioned earlier, says dishonest employers, we have laws that sanction non-payment of salaries. Has anyone in Croatia ever been held accountable for this? Give me an example when one of the employers and certainly there are those who used the workers, who did certain things we don't consider acceptable, whether someone in front of the court in Croatia was responsible for using someone for months and eventually didn't pay him a salary. No, I'll give you a very quick answer, there's no such case in Croatia. We make laws, we protect people and, in fact, in practice in today's practice, the situation in Croatia does not change. Because if it had changed then 9000 people wouldn't have worked and didn't get paid at the end of 12 months and today in March 10670, or 1656 people more than it was then. Or what about the people who work for the minimumer, with them 75 grand? We see that the government has raised the minimum minimum to 3200 and some kuna. Is that enough to live for? Which is why there is no will for the government, HDZ, MOST, most, anyone, to accept the proposal that we put in the procedure to make minimum wage 3860 kuna? Would that help people more? Would that perhaps burden some who make huge profits and pay little people? I don't think so. I think there's an opportunity to help people specifically, not in this way to create an impression of the law that we're all going to agree on. But look at the resources of 15 million kuna. If ma'am, here from the ministry says two and a few thousand people have been compensated. You know how much that is per person? Seven thousand kuna on average. Is that helping someone? It helps seven thousand kunas. Surely it helps because every kuna is welcome for people today in Croatia but is it really a concrete help that solves their problems? Absolutely not. And unfortunately, we ask ourselves today in Croatia why there are so many people who work and don't pay, and why do these people work? Because they hope, because the situation is not as pink as the HDZ is trying to present it to us and hope it will be better. Unfortunately, people say hope dies last. You have to hope, you have to have some motivation, something has to push you forward. So a lot of problems here are opening up and this law that we will also support is the spread of certain searches that people are making and on which they have the right and period to go on, all of which should be supported but should be solved I would say those basics of people who unfortunately have more and more in Croatia today who are having a hard time living and not pretending that the situation is better than it was yesterday because it is not. The economy may be moving forward, growth is what it is, but the number of employees is not growing. Salaries are nothing more than, of course, those for which the ruling coalition has fought, and these are those that have the highest salaries in the Republic of Croatia. So it wasn't a problem for them to cut tax rates for people who had 40, 50 thousand kuna, to have three, four thousand kunas in their wages. But those who have a minimum wage had nothing to do with it, those who have an average salary almost nothing helped them. And some HDZ representatives would not laugh so sweetly if they were aware of the problems our people have and with whom they live every day. So we do what we can to help people. Someone was talking about Agrokor, look absolutely, and now I think they're all aware that a company that has an impact on the Croatian economy like Agrokor has much more important, much more important for the Croatian economy than the INA. But we can't hear the Prime Minister, he meets secretly every day with the owners, with some people who decide and say nothing. But around the INA as soon as we got the arbitration ruling, he ran into a press conference for the PR to explain how we're gonna buy INA and now it's been three or four months around INA or A or B, there's nothing, there's no information on what the state is going to do, what way they're going to do, what money they're going to do, nothing. Around Agrokor, they meet in the evening, secretly, and don't explain at all what the situation is. And I think that such clear communication would remove the possibility of what the HSS Representatives Club feared might lead to an even greater number of people in this situation that they are in today. And I mean not at all questioning the ownership of Agrokor. Well, of course, if the state there helped and entered and the way in which every responsible state should be put in place that property should not be questioned at all. So normally if the company gets in trouble to change all that and if the state takes responsibility, the state takes responsibility. The state will not save any entrepreneurs, so as big as it is but the state can only save jobs and the interest of its economy. We have seen such applications in Germany, we have seen such examples in the United States, we have seen if there is a need for our Government to react, or we have not seen it, but I hope that we will see that our Government has to react in the same way to protect workers, the Croatian economy and not the individual owner. And I don't think that it should be brought into the thesis with individuals and owners and entrepreneurs at all, but exclusively with the company, that is, what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And I think this drama, which is now being created in public, is most potent in these secret meetings of Prime Minister Plenkovic, where he has not yet been manifested. Maybe today, when he comes here, he'll talk 2, 3 words about it because that's what Croatian people are interested in, and that's what might be damaging at this point to that company that's on the market that everyone knows everything and basically nobody knows anything and that's how it creates a fame that Agrokor is in certain problems and will have problems in future business. It is very clear that we should order here today also because of workers who may be in such a position tomorrow. What is the situation, what is the state intending to do not to save an individual or an entrepreneur but to save jobs, a company and a Croatian economy. That's what's important, and I believe we'll have a chance to discuss it. And to conclude this law should be supported, this law and in the second reading I believe it will not have, I believe it will come as soon as possible in the debate. But you're dealing with ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the ministry, so that people living off minimum protection, that people don't get into a situation where they don't get paid and that we can see how we can reduce the number of people who are blocked and reduce the number of companies that are blocked so that they don't come into these problems in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33284	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First of all, she's the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have looked back at your presentation in part and this morning my presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in which you said that the HDZ Club has presented and is trying to show a pink reality in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I have to deny you, I did not state the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club. This is what I will say when I have the opportunity to say what I mean about the state of the economy, otherwise in Croatian society and in my name and in the name of the club. I simply used the break to transfer the data I believe to you well known, in which, which are neither on mine nor on your assessment. I've provided data that speak official GDP growth data in the last year of around 2.9%. I said the last quarter recorded the biggest GDP growth in the last 10 years since the start of the 3.4% crisis. I was talking about the European Commission's estimates for GDP growth this year, I was talking about official data, which we will be hearing very quickly from the government when the report on the implementation of last year's budget where the deficit is a historically small deficit for last year. I was talking about three of the most important credit rating agencies in the country have raised credit ratings in Croatia over the past few months. I was saying that our minister was in charge of a double-low interest rate, that on the other hand he had issued bonds with the smallest contribution, where all of this would mean a number of savings, i.e. a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget. Therefore, if you disagree, it is not up to me, but to you, and I believe that such information is happy as an opposition representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33286	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33287	Thank you very much. Well, I wanted to confront here the moment you were exposed to Croatian reality. Trends are one thing, you said, minimum bond yield. Yes, this is the situation in the world, but the fact is that Croatia still pays only two countries worse, more expensively to pay bonds than Croatia, Cyprus and Greece. If we're gonna settle for that, okay? Why Slovenia has about 2% lower bond yield than Croatia, 2%. So they pay one, two, one, three. Let's try to compare to the better, try to understand that trends are one thing, and we can welcome them. But let's try to understand that at this point, we're looking at tens of thousands of people who don't work here, 200 and some thousands and those people who do 10670 who don't get paid. What we're talking about here doesn't mean too much to them. But what would it mean to people who work for a minimumer of 3200, and many of them in the store that we're talking about today in this worrying context, that it's not a minimumer of 3200, but it's 3700. That would mean 500 kuna more. This would be far more important to these people than whether growth was 2.9. They don't feel it. They don't feel hundreds of thousands of people leaving this country. Unfortunately, that trend hasn't stopped. I am here, listening to four years of my mandate that we are doing nothing and I was hoping, as everyone in Croatia, that 2016 will stop this trend. But in 2016 more people left Croatia than in the 4 years of the government I was in. Only in 2016. These are our problems and these will not satisfy people with economic growth 2.9% but with something that we change in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33288	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honorable secretary of state with his associates. Mr. Maras, here I was listening carefully to your presentation and you must have brought out a lot of nice, interesting data. I know and I see that you are looking forward to what Mr. Bacic was talking about with all the successes of this government, because we are all here for the benefit of our people. It's just a little weird, or I don't get it, it would be good if you guys had discussed it and made comparisons. Because you've been in a position for four years to do good for this people. You're surprised at this minimum wage now. Well, I don't know why you didn't increase it in your time, and why don't you compare it today, why don't you say so, so here we did something better or worse than we did today. This government is four months old, and here in four months good results have been achieved. You say there were some secret meetings of Prime Minister Plenkovic. I don't know what secret meetings are in a government building that's safe and open to the media and everything. That they were in some secret place, in some dump, but in their office, in the government building held a meeting. And here I am, and I answered because I've heard from one of my fellow citizens and he says to ask you, so it's my obligation to ask you to ask Mr. Maras how many such entrepreneurs he has reported over the past four years. I guess he's thinking about these things that you've been talking about that don't pay, so it might be interesting for our viewers, and it would be interesting for you to answer. So what benefits have you given that are not being done today or that this law has made them worse?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33290	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33291	Thank you very much. I didn't work in the IRS, or in the IRS, but I'm sure the law we passed goes after sanctioning those who don't pay their wages allows inspection and people to report such employers. So I'm, not me, but this Parliament or government that was at that point has proposed a law that gives a basis for that. I just asked the question here why nothing's going on, why there's not a single verdict, why things don't change that way. As far as secret meetings are concerned, that's not what I'm saying, everyone's saying, I haven't seen any media report on it, you've just said a public meeting in the government. No, it meets past the media and I'm just saying that it sends a very bad message and I'm surprised that companies that operate on the market that are successful in one part of their business allow this way of public opinion to be created on the basis of indicators and stories. So I'm surprised someone who deals with public relations for these companies doesn't finally send a very clear message. It's clear to me that Mr. Plenkovic doesn't know what to say, he can't make a decision because he obviously doesn't think it's his problem like the INA that went from HDZ to Sanader so far, and here he doesn't feel it with his own problem and that's why he didn't react. But what matters is, it's important to send a message and it's important to tell people that we're going to stand up as a responsible state to have a problem with that company, if there's no escalating at all. And about what I've been doing for four years, people know, but they also know that in 2011 and 2012, when we took over from HDZ, the power was down 2%. Imagine the luck this government has after the SDP, the first year of growth plus 2.9% when de facto has no results yet, and when we came to power the fall from HDZ was minus 2%. Well, that's, God let you be in a position where HDZ is now in relation to what we were back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33292	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished representative Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33293	Comrade Maras, I'm only going to start with that one picture you mentioned, which is that hope dies last. He's really dying last, but only where life has never been or been for a long time. It serves us as a verbal cave to hide when the world is bareing us, and in order not to be naked in front of that world, you mentioned the problem of minimum wages in your presentation. The problem of minimum wages is difficult to solve with some kind of declaration because many simple professions would disappear. The problem of minimum wages may be solved by a profit that a person makes or a certain activity or by some owner. You mentioned the problem of Agrokor, I think we have something going on here, say, in Latin America and everywhere it worked against the spirit of capitalism. What does that mean? That means when someone makes a profit it's his profit, it doesn't share it with the workers. When he gets into trouble, he's a public debt. That public debt should then be a state, a society or whoever sanctions it. We are now at this very end of this process where you would not really want our hope to die last, but rather to observe the processes and learn from these processes, that the problem, for example, of minimum wages or wages, is solved with the profits of the activity that the pay relates to. Then we will establish a righteous righteous system, and then we will act in the spirit of the law and the times in which we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33294	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33295	Thank you very much. Mr. Marco, you seem from Zadar, I'm not sure but nod your head, so you're from Zadar. So I see you're worried about whether someone's naked in front of the public, but I think that that concern should actually be or should actually be with you, no. You're from that option that's in the coalition with the mayor of the city of Zadar. So this is where you raise your hand along with the same people, and you're down here as an opposition. So be careful how abnormal and schizophrenic it is, and you're going to tell me now that I am, so you're naked. So people here know that you're acting the way you do, not honestly, not with the ideal, but here I'm okay. HDZ, they're the worst down there. How is that possible? Can you explain that? How is that possible? And now you're gonna tell me I'm naked, so at least I'm consistent. I walk free and fly around, and you, under your HDZ yoke, have to come down to Zadar and explain that Kalmeta is actually a good boy because otherwise they ask you, so what kind of hand do you raise in the Assembly with Calmet, and now you're telling us that they're not okay. It's a terrible burden, get rid of Marco. Get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33296	Honorable representative Marko Vučetic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33297	A colleague, Maras, injured Rules of Procedure 238, especially in the part where it was an insult to a representative, did he insult himself. I come from Vira where the HDZ and SDP coalition is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33298	I thought you'd comment that he flew like a bird and so on, but you didn't. And the esteemed representative Gordan Maras has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33299	A colleague named Marco hurt his 238th article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33300	Now let me ask you what the item is. No, I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33301	Article 3 I learned, paragraph 3. My colleague, Marko, means I am not anywhere in the HDZ coalition, not in Vir, not in Zadar, not in Croatia. You may not be in Vira, but you are in Croatia. So where most people see you, look at the camera and tell people, I'm in a coalition with HDZ, Kalmeta's my friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33302	I have to distract you, you've been playing a little bit, I've let you go until the end of paragraph 3 is gone, not at all, that article. No, he has, he has several indents, but he has no item two or three, but only enough to see how much we know the Rules of Procedure. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Marin Skibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33303	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr Maras, you have mentioned many things, but do you know what the final act of this debt doctrine is in Croatia? The final goal of the debt doctrine is to evict, the final act of the debt doctrine, is that young people like me leave this country because they don't see the perspective here, they don't see any signs of any change. You said you were flying free as a bird and it's phenomenal, so you can say a little bit from that perspective of the macro aspect since you see everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33304	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33305	Thank you very much, fellow Scybola, I will start from this last one, yes, I am free but I am also sad to see that what you are saying and Croatia's entry into the EU is not consumed in the way our citizens would like and do not feel the benefits they should feel. I look forward today to discussing with Prime Minister Plenkovic at three o'clock to see the benefits that our country and our citizens feel the most from Croatia's entry into the EU. Of course, the biggest benfits under the quotes are that we can move freely and that people unfortunately leave Croatia. And on that side, I appeal here to the government, to the representatives of the government, as much as I think they've agreed to satisfy some of their petty partial interest in the Parliament to raise their hands for the laws that the government is proposing, to think that behind all these numbers that we're talking about are people. So 10 thousand 670 people work and don't get paid, it's an awful large number that increases every day, more and more, it's done. We remember how many campaign announcements she was, nothing's happening, 329 thousand people who, unfortunately, end up on flats and have to be disintegrated. Here we wanted to make some moves, here's Minister Kuščević, I watched him today, and I listened to the radio stories about perspective, new apartments, etc., and that's the problem piled up that aren't solved and that just don't touch. To support the good laws yes, but to think about having a lot of people in Croatia every day that we don't solve current, daily problems, that's what we need to take care of every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33306	Thank you very much. And with that, we've exhausted the replicas, and I'm closing the debate on this wheel. Since several MPs withdrew their applications, we will now stop and have a little longer breaks because we planned to have a few more deputies talk but they withdrew and we will see each other again at 3:00 here on the Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on a meeting of the European Council held in Brussels on 9 March and on informal meetings of the European Council in Valleta on 3 February and in Brussels on 10 March. Thank you very much. It's 1:00 P.M. Now we'd move on to a vote on those laws. The first is the proposal for a law on insurance of labour claims, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 99., Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on the insurance of labour claims is adopted. All comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. Who's in favour of this proposal? I find that with 119 votes for, 3 abstentions and no one against, most votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33308	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The next item is - Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 9 March 2017 in Brussels and on informal meetings of the European Council in Valleta on 3 February 2017 and in Brussels on 10 March 2017 the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs. You received the reports at the session. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking him to submit an opening, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33309	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I welcome you all to another occasion for our joint debate on European topics. So, as we have already established in recent months, as you remember, we have decided that after each European Council of formal meetings we have this debate in the Croatian Parliament. This time it is a very interesting situation since our last such moment we have had as many as 3 meetings of the European Council in informal format, one that took place in Malta at the beginning of February and two that took place last week by the formal on Thursday and informal on Friday in a specific format without the United Kingdom. First of all, let me refer to the re-election of Donald Tusk, former and new President of the European Council, the Polish Prime Minister whom you had the opportunity to see here in the Croatian Parliament for the 25th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia also showed the gesture of friendship and the gesture of Croatia's knowledge. What was particularly nice to hear is a high level of knowledge of Croatian language, but what is more important is encouraging messages to the youngest member of the EU, with respect for all the achievements we have achieved together over the past years. His re-election was specific because Poland, therefore his country's current Polish government proposed another candidate for the European Council's leadership. As far as I'm concerned, this situation hasn't happened since this duty, and I don't think I'm wrong about that. It was about Jacek Saryusz Wolski's current representative in the European Parliament, otherwise my good colleague and friend, a rapporteur for Ukraine with whom I have worked very much over the past few years, who has never been president of the Polish government in his career. And the rule is in principle that people who run for the European Council's leadership are in their careers at some point at the head of the national government. In the debate, he prevailed in the 27 member states to regain confidence in Donald Tusk and for the next two-and-a-half years he has acted in accordance with the previously defined position of the Republic of Croatia, and I supported such a decision on behalf of the Croatian government. The only country to oppose this was Poland, therefore, has virtually prevented the conclusions we have adopted on the European Council from becoming the usual conclusions already, at this point, as the chairman. So they have this one little, fine distinction but the power of messages, everything that's concluded stays in its being the same. After a number of years more precisely from 2008 to Thursday's meeting at European Council level, there was no debate and no conclusion on the countries of Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans has been called the subject in technical terms of the EU for years. This is particularly important from Croatia's point of view that this topic has been opened, that heads of state and government have used a good part of Thursday evening to speak of the nearest neighbourhood of the Republic of Croatia. What is most important is that not only the clear European perspective of all our neighbouring countries has been reiterated and the EU's attachment to help these countries meet European criteria and reforms. When more precise and experienced actors of expressions of such documents look at these conclusions, then perhaps they can note what I have pointed out to the lack of ambition and clarity when it comes to terms such as enlargement, accession, the accession of candidates of potential candidates and all that I mean with myself is the process of European enlargement. However, as always happens in such documents, everything needs to be seen in a broader political context, the context of the overall climate in the European project, particularly sensitive topics in some Member States, all of what is related to further enlargement, which is related to migration, which is related to jobs, freedom of movement, EU enlargement, financing of other countries, and especially when all of this is happening in the pre-election climate. When circumstances are so, then a language that must be a kind of common denominator and consensus for everyone at the table is diplomatically thoughtful, but still firm and clear enough to give our neighbors a message of encouragement. The arguments I presented at that meeting which I firmly believe are Croatia's consensual position that we must continue the enlargement process to our neighbours, especially BiH, but also others, that we must allow the European process to hold not only reform efforts but also the cohesion of some of the countries that are close to us, in terms of their functionality. I also made it very clear that the more the EU hesitates in its institutional, financial, diplomatic, political or any other presence, the more it affects other global actors in our nearest neighbourhood, the greater and more powerful and has a marginal impact on important political processes. I think that this awareness of some of our partners in the EU about the real situation in our neighborhood varies quite well. Those who followed this topic a little longer will remember the Zagreb summit at the top of 2000, will remember the 2003 summit in Thessaloniki, then it was imagined that periodic meetings between the heads of state and the EU government with the Southeast European countries took place every three years. Unfortunately, this good intention did not take place after the major enlargement of the EU on 1 May 2004. Instead of chiefs and state and government, meetings went down to the level of ministers, sometimes domestic affairs, justice, foreign affairs, and thus lost focus and touch of the European Council with a common sense of meeting by watching Southeast European leaders. This kind of encounter has literally not been in that format since 2003, and it feels that way. This is also felt in the sensibility of certain European leaders to the details of individual countries, their current situation, to the knowledge of the file and to the interest of continuing the enlargement process on them. We have a kind of substitution called the so-called. A Berlin process that was launched several years ago by Germany. One such meeting will be in Trieste this year, host Italy, but it may also be an advantage of being large and interested states, but it is not all and it is a flaw, and it is seen and felt in discussions. And that's not good. And that is why Croatia needs to correct and try to bring these countries back to the agenda of the European Council much more often than before. Nine years is a very, very long period for conclusions on the single gap on Europe's map when it comes to rounding up the European project. I think we've sent very strong messages here, all partners have recognized them very well. It cannot all end naturally in conclusions, but what I feel as feedback, as a kind of feedback, is that the degree of understanding of the performances of countries such as Italy, Hungary, Austria, Croatia, Germany, France raises awareness overall at European Council level of the importance of this part of Europe and its European future. Of course, I specifically spoke about us as the most important BiH, the equality of three constituent peoples, especially Croatian peoples, and everything we can expect before the elections are scheduled for 2018, and that includes the electoral law. From other topics, I would single out those that may be the most important for European citizens, which are the conclusions on new jobs, growth, competitiveness with the traditional opening presentation of European Commission President Juncker. And this time, we were approached by the President of the European Central Bank of Draghi, who has very precisely articulated favourable macroeconomic indicators at EU level, where the average unemployment rate since 2009 is currently the lowest, at 9.6%. So that's a good and positive signal. Growth in EU member states at quarter level ranges from 0.3% to 0.6%. All this is information that is relevant in the context of Croatia and our macroeconomic indicators to see where our movements are when we compare trends at EU level. And on the other hand, I'd like to say that, here are all these three credit rating agencies in the past few months, our negative outlook has turned into a stable, positive signal. Of course, it is primarily thanks to our economy, their activation, production, export, competitiveness. However, it is also about messages that those who look at us with much more coldness and impartiality, the recognition of the fundamental message that I think is held by this Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, which is a desire for political stability which then creates a thorough precondition for economic growth and development, to strengthen the framework of legal certainty, predictability and to implement principles and social justice and solidarity. Therefore, an indicator of GDP growth in 2016, the 2017 projections, the reduction of public debt to 83.9% of GDP shares, as well as the reduction of the budget deficit, is encouraging. And when I conveyed it to our colleagues and our partners, then in one comparative analysis you see that the trends which Croatia currently enjoys are such that we must make all efforts together to continue and to create greater employment by combining national measures and European funds. It is precisely this trail of presentations and other colleagues, everyone has similar problems and everyone is looking for quality and useful solutions. And this includes adapting to what is called future jobs, where digital society and the digital economy today make a clear priority for the EU and bear the potential of 3.8 million new jobs. I would also like to say that this European Council also discussed security and defence issues. You know that last year, in June, the European Union adopted a global strategy for foreign and security policy, it was unfortunately on the agenda exactly one day after a negative referendum in the United Kingdom and, of course, remained in the shadow of this huge political event. However, the operational work that continued at Council level, particularly in the area of defence cooperation, military planning, increased transparency, flexibility, complementarity and Union activities in the security and defence areas, with what the North Atlantic Alliance is doing and strengthening Member States' autonomy in defence terms, has been very clearly expressed both in the conclusions and in efforts which were discussed several days before this meeting and at the level of defence ministers. What is also important is that Croatia is in this context a country that has recognised that under new global circumstances we must also take a step towards the defence budget. Therefore, the shift that we have made together by adopting the state budget is visible by our partners in the EU, and this is something that we must take care of in the future. The target of 2% is, of course, a kind of task for a little longer. But if we continue to work to increase our capabilities, to increase the efficiency and complementarity of our defence capabilities, then this means that we have, which are less than 2% and that can be very useful in our contribution, to strengthen the overall, security and defence capabilities of the EU. The topic also touched was a sort of continuation of the debate from the informal meeting in Malta and this was the topic of migration at the moment due to practically almost closed Eastern and Balkan routes to the most. The EU's core focus is on the situation on the Mediterranean Mediterranean migration route and, of course, the most interested countries such as Italy, Malta have sought to put in the first place a broader context of cooperation with the countries of Africa, especially Libya, which is clearly recognised as a key country on the occasion of naturally illegal crossings and smuggling of people from North Africa to the coast of Italy or Malta. On this side, the importance of implementing all agreements with Turkey has been reiterated because its role, without any dilemmas, is capital in assessing the possible further inflow of migrants or refugees from the space of Asia Minor. And what happened after the European Council in the context of the Netherlands and Germany does not contribute to the stability of this dialogue, nor to the confidence and risks involved. I therefore think that, with great commitment to strengthening democracy and standards of human rights, the functioning of the rule of law, media freedoms in Turkey, it is also important to take care of the financial support we give to Turkey regarding refugees and migrants on the context of accession negotiations and on the context of accession negotiations and on the context of visa policy. All these topics are related to each other. When it comes to an informal meeting in Malta, I would like to say that we have taken advantage of this opportunity to discuss transatlantic relations, new circumstances, hence the new US administration, the election of President Trump, of relations with other global actors like Russia, where it is clearly recognised that a kind of deviation from classical adherence to multilateralism that we could see in the first statements of the American administration. The European Union is working through dialogue either at the level of European institutions, whether bilateral dialogue between the heads of state and the Government with the leadership of the United States is aware of those common frameworks of trust and cooperation because it is key to global governance and to address the numerous security, political challenges facing us in the modern world as it is today. On the other hand, a previous debate was held in Malta on preparations for a summit in Rome. So, on March 25th, Rome will hold a solemn meeting and sign one document on the 60th anniversary of the signing of Roman contracts, which is an occasion for these special circumstances, which are primarily caused by a negative referendum in the United Kingdom. The European Union, all Member States, and this is meant to find new foundations for cooperation, firmly believing in the achievement of the past 60 years, is deeply aware of what challenges are ahead of us and of the intention of looking at the EU, what kind of a European project we want to see in the period ahead. It seems to me that one consensus is being created, but with one very distinct sense of reality. In the debates, there is no illusion that today's European project is primarily burdened by the crisis that unprecedentedly in the coming years is expected to be very unusual, so far unexplored negotiations on the exit of a large member, a serious contributor to the European budget, a member with the strongest defence capabilities, whose universal global presence in terms of the diplomatic network reduces both the EU's external political influence and the process that will have financial repercussions primarily for the United Kingdom and that, in such a context, we try to give a new impulse to the strength of the European project. On the other hand, the position that I expressed on behalf of Croatia and Malta and on Friday in Brussels came down to three basic points. What we all obviously recognize at this point is that we must strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the EU institutions either directly or indirectly. Such a debate as we have today, and we have it on purpose today when the European Parliament will also lead other Member States before the summit in Rome just so that national parliaments are part of this debate and give guidance to governments on how to put themselves in these circumstances. On the other hand, growing populistism, which is literally a horizontal issue today at EU level, has been identified as one of the main causes of the crisis of trust in the European project. And it's not just a matter of communication, it's not just a matter of better interpretation of European policies. This is primarily the identification with European values, and here I come to another point, which is that we all have a common obligation to do both common policies and redistributive strengths of the European budget, which is around 150 billion euros a year much more visible to ordinary citizens were they in Vukovar, were they in Koln, were they in Napoli. That's what the key is. Because this particular flaw creates mistrust and distances people from identifying with a project that is the largest peace and development project in our continent since World War II. The third aspect is that only by common approach can we be a relevant actor on the global scene and this has been crystallized in the debates of all participants and everyone expects this trail to encourage the development of the Roman Declaration. In order to help that debate, European Commission President Juncker has, as you have obtained in the materials, worked together with his associates a kind White Paper of the European Commission on the future of Europe. This document is not exclusively focused on this short period of several weeks to Rome but has its own purpose with a boost to this debate in the months ahead and in some way crystallises the occasion of its address to the European Parliament in the fall of the so-called'seven'. the annual situation of the Union, where a certain Member State's position is expected on one of these scenarios. The government's position, of course, is that this five- scenario choice isn't for me in which you choose one of the scenarios, then you forget all the others. On the contrary, the future of Europe will be a kind of mix of all these scenarios, it is the only thing that is safe. Therefore, the debate on Europe is also getting its additional dimension, and we need to be open there. Europe has more speed today. At the end of the line in multiple circles of cooperation if we want to. Of course, the most famous are the Eurozone and Schengen area, but there are a whole range of other aspects of enhanced cooperation, based on the EU Treaty, where part of the Member States have decided to go into deeper integration. That is why my thesis on behalf of Croatia was, since Europe is more fast at this point one fact that we must all be aware of together, the way this cooperation will take place in the future must be inclusive. So we must avoid amalgam in which several large, influential, rich, most often founding countries will go into closer cooperation, and the rest will remain on the margin with a reduced impact on the formation of a European project. That's the point, so we have to avoid it because then we go back to the concept of a directory where several big ones decide the fate of the whole project. And that will only have negative repercusions in that first point I was talking about, which is a growing population and poor identification of European citizens with a European project. And I think that is what colleagues from those who most subscribe to the budget and in the extreme line from those countries that are the whole European project and design their predecessors 60 years ago. This is one of the most important facts for Croatia, in my view, that because we are now only in the phase of evaluation for entering the Schengen area, if we had formally agreed to sign the Accession Treaty to become part of the Eurozone, but we have very many criteria to meet which we do not have via facts to remain in a kind of ring that is not the focus of those who decide. And this sense of equality of all Member States at Council level must be from the aspect of Croatia and the countries of our size and our influence one of the topics that we have to deal with at all levels, and then you, too, I am sure in the context of a number of interparliamentary cooperation activities, you can articulate and represent the same attitudes as the interests of the Republic of Croatia. What is ahead of us this year is not only to support Italy's intention, because Italy is currently organising a number of discussions on this topic on the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, but that through all the institutional bodies there was intergovernmental cooperation, whether interparliamentary cooperation we are promoting the fundamental attitudes of the Republic of Croatia which are strong, clear, mature contribution now after here we are practically in the fourth year of membership, where we are expected to say a lot about what we know more about than others, and this is very much seen in themes like South East Europe and is very much listening to the attitude of Croatia and countries like us on topics that we are much better acquainted with. Therefore, to end with a note of optimism, I think the Roman meeting will not be spectacular, but it will be good, useful, constructive, realistic, there will be an opportunity for new cohesion, for a thorough and critical introspection if necessary, whether to find enough power, energy to put everything that is good in this joint project in the first place, and what we consider to be certain shortcomings, joint forces to correct, correct and make most of the understandable and acceptable to the vast majority of European people and European voters. This includes, of course, greater participation in the elections, either at national level, or in elections for the European Parliament, which will be slightly more than two years from today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33310	I thank the Prime Minister. Representative Branimir Bunjac called for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have now heard that Croatia as a member of the EU has good neighbourly intentions towards those members who have not yet joined the EU, I suppose, towards BiH, Montenegro and Serbia. However, the question arises as to what our other neighbours are already members of the EU, such as Hungary or Slovenia, Italy. Here we heard recently when visiting the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker Ljubljana that Croatia should accept arbitration with Slovenia, although we have found this agreement, this arbitration contaminating and we have withdrawn from it and have publicly announced that we are withdrawing, that we will not recognise its conclusions, the question is reopened, therefore, from the capital of Slovenia of Ljubljana from our immediate proximity. And then we have to ask ourselves if we're going to have our good intentions and let's say naivety when we join the EU, we have to pay what we have, which is Croatian state territory. On this side, he would ask the government or prime minister if they can show themselves about the danger that Croatia will be left without the Piran Bay. In addition to all that, I would like to mention that cynical supplement, so the European Commission has already given in around Terran. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33312	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33313	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Bunjac. So, what is the European Commission's objective? The European Commission always takes care of the European interest, and in the logic of a good friend of all member states, it wants open issues between the members of the European Union to be settled by agreement, preferably by consensus. Jan Cloud Juncker is on a number of occasions in his political career and while he was Prime Minister of Luxembourg, and now that the President of the European Commission has shown his sympathy, understanding for Croatia and wants to help her on the European path. It is about the man I can tell you about now that I know well and his visit to Slovenia and his statement are made in context. He and I talked about it. I once again made it very clear and precise, caring and calmly told him as I told my colleagues to Cerar if the Slovenian judge in arbitration and the Slovenian agent had also resigned with their own decision, if the Croatian Parliament had told the full consensus in the summer of 2015 that it was coming out of the arbitration proceedings and that it would in no way take part in it, and our judge resigned then any acceptance of the arbitration court's decision in international legal terms does not come into consideration. And that attitude is firm and clear, and that's what I told him. Croatia will resolve this open issue with Slovenia by some other way, and certainly not irreparably compromised and contaminated arbitration process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33314	Thank you. Representative Marin Škibola reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33315	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank Mr. Prime Minister for this report. However, the report says that you have advocated three points that you consider important. One of these points is that the European project must have a stronger democratic legitimacy and greater confidence of European voters in European institutions, with strong opposition to growing populistism. Now can you explain what populistism is for you in European bureaucratic institutions? Whether this is a criticism of youth unemployment in the PIGS countries, for example. and that name PIGS, which is an ugly name, came from the European establishment? Is this a criticism of the disseminating of the social community in the European Union on the growing number of those poor and in debt slavery? Is that a criticism of the banking conglomerates becoming more powerful than democratically elected governments? Is that criticism of megacapitalism that knows not solidarity but only the maximization of profits? Is this criticism of restricting state intervention and transferring key powers to supranational institutions? If that's the formula of pulsism, I'm a populist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33316	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33317	As far as I'm concerned, you can be whatever you want. That's your choice. What I object to, I oppose those political forces and political parties which, at the level of the Member States and also at the level of the European Parliament, have benefited from misinformation, untrueness, manipulation, especially when holding numerous referendums on European issues where they have led many voters astray. What you have now said is your kind or I don't know whose view of the European project. But the European project isn't that. The European project is primarily a peace project. Secondly, a law community project, respecting the rule of law. In economic terms, the European project has been a development project that has brought benefits to many Member States, which has led to the development of a post of World War II Europe as a project for those who later joined this project, whether it is an extension from 73, 81, 86, 95, 2004, 2007 or 2013 that has not brought harm to anyone, and this is a project where this redistributive power of the European budget helps countries like Croatia. And in order to do all of this in a way to dull these blades that you're now talking about, the project must have full democratic legitimacy. And I don't mind having people sitting in European institutions like they do today. Here we are, in Strasbourg together with our 11 MPs, you have at least a hundred MPs who are having a heated debate there, and I'd rather not have an institution of that kind of talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33318	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33319	And that's where I allow democracy, but I also advocate I advocate that manipulation should not be allowed. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33320	Mr. Prime Minister, I would only pray that we all stick to the weather. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, feel free to give 10, 15 seconds to the Prime Minister to answer my question longer if necessary. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for this presentation and for the information you've given us regarding the European Council. I agree with you on some things and on enlargement, and on the topics discussed there must be the most important thing about the economy. We must support both our neighbours and the European Union on certain matters. But first we must take care of ourselves, our citizens, our country, our economy. And since you have also introduced one practice into Croatian politics, this is to react to certain situations in the Croatian economy in large Croatian companies. We remember your reaction during the arbitration around INA and the press conference where you announced we'd buy INA. We know certain information that you had meetings with Prime Minister Orban on this subject in Malta if you can inform us, that topic as if it had fallen into another plan, more of it in the government at all, and personal matters do not mention you. We want to know if there's anything going on. But what is important to us to sustain these trends, this economic growth which unfortunately is still weaker than it is, I don't mean economic growth, but the number of unemployed is higher than it is in the EU. Delegation is, for example, two percentage points more expensive than it is in Slovenia. So we're still behind. But in order not to put our economy at risk, it is very important that you continue this clear public communication strategy around key Croatian companies. What's going on around Agrokor right now, I don't think it's good, that we should send a clear message from here what your vision of how we're going to...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33322	.../Intruder President: Representative Maras time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33323	...to protect our economy in order to continue these positive economic trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33324	.../Intruder President: thank you. Representative Maras, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33325	Meetings away from the public and the media certainly...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33326	Thank you. Representative Maras is out of time. We're running out of time, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33327	.../Intruder Maras: I beg you.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33328	We're running out of time, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33329	.../Intruder Maras: A few sentences./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33330	Representative Maras, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33331	.../Intruder Maras: President./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33332	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33333	President, I'm asking you not to be so rigid. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33334	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Maras has never been more benign and sweeter to me since we've been in these roles and he's spoken here for 25 seconds as long as I have just before, so we're... As far as I'm concerned, there's time and there's time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not a representative, at least not now. As regards the topics you spoke about, of course, that the economy is the most important topic discussed during Thursday and that what the European Central Bank is doing, what the European Commission is doing, is this kind of blinding between the European Fund for Strategic Investments, etc. Juncker's plan and European Structural Funds is something that states that have little more experience of absorbing funds than we try to profit from. What we need to do is to make projects and capabilities for end-users, which the implementing bodies and state institutions are at a higher level than they are today so that we can make it concrete at Croatia level. And it's an advocate for national interests, and that's what I do, and that's what my predecessors do, and that's what others do. When it comes to discussions with the Hungarian prime minister, we talk regularly and nothing has changed, and that is why we have also set up advice where we look at what are the best options for us, how to realize what we have said, and that is to return INA to Croatian hands and buy out MOL shares with full confidence that the Hungarian side wants to do the same, which is very important. When it comes to Agrokor clearly this is not the topic of today's debate but I did say shortly before entering the Parliament that it was my interest as Prime Minister to point out the responsibility of both the owner and the management of the company's quality business, to calm us down the atmosphere and tension of which of the one meeting that was not published on the Internet, there were many such meetings and during your government And lastly take care of the stability of the Croatian economy and our financial system in a legitimate way. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33335	Since Mr. Maras allowed the same extension because of Mr. Maras, I have extended. I would really ask all parliamentary deputies to stick to their scheduled time. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33336	Respect for the Prime Minister. I am extremely pleased that you have come here to speak to us, which we can communicate with you and I would just like to point out one decision to you, means the Court of Justice in the European Union, and the European Court of Justice says the following. Croatian public notebooks are not a court and cannot issue a European executive title. In other words, if a public notary from Croatia tries to run an errand on some of our or foreign nationals within the EU in another country where he has an account. In such a situation, if the objection is expressed that, meaning the public notary is not a court simply has to refuse the order or not implement it. In other words, it is the courts throughout the EU that decide to conduct the operation. In our country, it is the public notebooks that do this and therefore, by amending the Executive Law if I am not mistaken from 2011 under the stick of Jadranka Kosor, then the prime minister of the HDZ ranks, had an explosion. We are interested as members of the organization that is also fighting for the perpetrators, whether your government intends to return the authority to the courts from public notebooks according to European law, or whether you have discussed these tasks with your European colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33337	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33338	There has been no debate with European colleagues on the decisions of the European Court of Justice. This is a topic that our professional services and lawyers must first of all in the competent ministries because it is more thorough to study them and to see what is the character of a judicial decision based on European law and practice and the doctrine of the European Court of Justice and what is in Croatian regulations. The most important thing is that this decision is in no way affecting the aspect of legal certainty, so this decision was created by the initiative of one citizen of another EU member of the EU and therefore the lawyers I discussed with at this point at the stage of the analysis of that verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33339	Representative Milanka Opačić answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33340	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, when you spoke in your presentation, you said that the EU must maintain reform processes. I think that Croatia must also maintain reform processes, unfortunately for a year and a half, all reforms already stand. It is clear to me that because of the local elections, you do not want to piss off the citizens and that the reforms in your government are in place, but I expect you to really go into reform processes after the local elections because there is no progress in Croatia without it. So, we have to change things, we have to change them how for businessmen, we have to change things both in the public sector and in the state sector. So there's a lot of reforms that we've drawn up, most of them are left and from our government, so some of us we've started, some of us need to continue, some of us need to come up with from the beginning. So, without reforms, there will be no progress without change in society. And what we now have as economic growth, unfortunately in the coming years we might experience a fall because we will not be able to do as we are structured to continue in some positive trend. So here's why I'm going to underline it one more time, and I expect that after the local elections, you take your job seriously and you start reforming it, and there's no progress in the Republic of Croatia without change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33341	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33342	Okay. I appreciate fellow Optics that maybe your optics are like that, my optics are a little different. If you were sitting in the chair where I am right now, then you would look back on tax reform, and on the budget, and on the economic discharge plan, and on the state administration reform action plan, and on the waste management plan, and on the thorough development of the national reform programme that we will adopt in April of the month which is part of the whole cycle that is being implemented in coordination with the European Commission in the European semester and which must be upgraded to these indicators that are good and positive at the moment, and I believe that both my and your goal is to keep these trends permanent, therefore, permanent. And that is why I say that all of this is what we have at this point, and that is what is important is in a positive tone and it must be an incentive for both the Government and the Croatian Parliament to continue structural reforms. It is also more efficient, more efficient, better rewarded and rated state administration, it is an effective and independent judiciary, it is transparent public procurement where we have brought together a new law here in the Croatian Parliament that has the most economically favourable offer, which is one new level and a simpler and unique procedure with regard to documentation in accordance with the acquis, it is a continuous fight against corruption, it is a continuation of educational reform that we will insist on and I believe that we can have a consensus on this without any major drama or reflection on the concept of this reform. And also with much better, better-quality absorption of EU funds because your government and previous government and mine have seen certain problems where now after 3.5 years of this financial perspective we have to draw a line and do everything we can to Some funds simply do not return to the European budget. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33343	Thank you. Representative Josko Klisovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, in your opening statement at the very beginning, you informed us about the re-election of President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, and you explained to us all the circumstances including that Poland as a state whose citizen he did not give its support to Mr. Tusk. It is ugly when his country does not support its own candidates, but it is the right of every government, and so does the Polish government, although I think it speaks more of the government itself, and less of the candidate, especially if this candidate, like Tusk, has the sympathy and support of all the other members of that organisation. But it is easy to see when it comes to other countries and other citizens of other countries, it is much harder to see it when it comes to their own citizens. The Croatian government, both Oreshkovic and yours, could also support Croatian candidates who have applied for very high and prestigious positions in international organisations and not. This has missed one good chance for Croatia to be further established in the international community, in international organisations, and our personnel are affecting the policy of these organisations. All of this contributes to the better international position of the state. I know you can't answer this question any other way than to say, we made a mistake, we won't go on like that, we'll support Croatian candidates. And so I ask you, then, to answer another question to me, which is when you made your point to President Juncker on arbitration with Slovenia which I fully support and I think it's on the line of consensus that we have achieved in this House, what did Commission President Juncker say? Is he ready to revise his own position and thus the position of the European Commission as presented by the Sta Agency in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33345	Thank you to Agent Klisovic. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33346	Dear colleague Klisovic, as far as this first question is concerned, I think that you and I know that the question is much more complex than what you said, so I will appreciate your suggestion that we talk about it on the side, if you want. I think you might need a little more information. As for this second topic and Mr. Juncker's attitude, I repeat Jean-Claude Juncker is a friend of Croatia, but a friend and Slovenia. From his point of view, if you were Luxemburgians, you would say, so let's agree in a number of large contexts so large, so much more difficult and much to solve more complex issues, this from his perspective is a simple question between two friendly states and two friendly peoples, and that's the end. The Commission, if you saw it a few days ago, has already retarded from what it was like to be a STA, not a Juncker but a commission. So his appeal was friendly, if you could make a deal with us would be nice. Juncker was not pleased to watch the time of the blockade of the accession negotiations when at the time, it seems to me that the Czech presidency in 2009, we haven't opened a chapter for six months, you remember that, but at that time some other people were trying to help Croatia and Slovenia overcome the blockade in accession negotiations, and this was done through reaching agreement on the arbitration agreement. The attitude of Croatia is clear, consensual, firm. No one will give up on him a millimeter. And that message was very clear from my side to President Junker, as well as my colleague Cerar. They understood and respected her. We'll look for another time for this open question. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33347	Thank you. Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33348	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, I welcome again your practice of coming to the Parliament and providing information on the current events. This is simple, you have introduced one practice to say one current clock about the European Union in the Croatian Parliament, which is good. Last time I suggested to you, and now I'm going to repeat that we try together, and here you are important, you can be an important initiator of really holding a plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on radically changed conditions of operation and events in the European Union that is no longer a project for themselves. We must not forget that other forces that come within the world's economic financial triangle, different rhetoric and policies of the United States, the cold war has never stopped when it comes to the West to Russia, the new relations between China and the European Union, therefore, the exit of Britain. We see there's a whole series of difficulties. We can't, and we can't just settle for what it is. It's good to know some information we can't read. But we here in the Parliament need to discuss these new circumstances. I like that you highlighted the democratic deficit in the functioning of the European Union, and this particular deficit is leading it deeper and deeper into these problems. How do you solve that? How to move in the other direction, so please and I propose to you and the President of the Parliament, and I think that's what Croatian citizens expect us to open a plenary session, to hold very important changes within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33349	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33350	I have seen this more as a suggestion to deepen this mechanism that we have now established, and by me are essentially these regular opportunities, this is every three months perhaps even shorter, one huge refreshment for the work of the Croatian Parliament. I, when I was a representative here, we were even on the occasion of ratification of the Treaty of Accession from a sort of gentleman's agreement only to the representatives who spoke on behalf of the clubs. I don't remember whether there were any larger, larger or more regular discussions on any foreign policy issue. Maybe in the ratification of some contracts, but then it was marginal. The reason why I am doing this is that the Croatian public, Croatian representatives not only hear what is happening in terms of the recipients of information, but also to be stakeholders, initiators and to suggest the topics that Croatia needs to articulate in European institutions. That's the point and I agree with you. Circumstances have changed significantly so far unseen for the European project. The sensitivity of enlargement exists in several countries that are close and adjacent to these countries. I wouldn't say with the others that much enthusiasm is visible. An explanation of the global relations between Washington and Moscow at the moment of the topic that is worth hours and hours of debate on these circumstances. The government's ready. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is more than willing to talk about it. And the fact that the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs in advance receives the views of the Republic of Croatia ahead of the European Council as well as other Council formations can make this debate both at the level of the Committee and at the level of the plenary session useful to the Croatian public. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33351	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed colleague Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33352	Dear President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, this question I'm going to ask which is a short one you've already partially answered. But I'd like to say one more time, ask again. You said that at any cost you should avoid Europe's scenario of different speeds or become part of it – that's my addition – a group with a higher speed. How realistic is it that we ourselves and how much alone can we make to become? What do you as a Government want or think you can do and what do you think the Parliament can do in this context? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33353	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33354	We can first and foremost see what are all forms of enhanced cooperation that exist today in which we are not, and there are a number of these and they are very specific life issues, let's say some status issues concerning family law, patent issues, financial transaction tax issues, enhanced defence and security cooperation issues. The topics that are a little less emancipated in the public even to a large majority of people are not known at all that there are narrow circles of the Member States that have decided to cooperate in some area closer than, for example, the topic that has been mentioned in part, which is the European Office of the State's Attorney or Public Prosecutor however you wish not to go in this direction. What is politically important to me in the perception of this topic of Europe is more rapid, no matter how long an institutional debate takes place in the European Union. She didn't start this White Book. You have been able to read literature about this subject for the last 40 years. The most important thing is to avoid a situation where there will be an impression that a large rich, influential narrow circle of 4, 5 that is even informally found before the European Council, as other countries find themselves in some regional formats in some way formalising a position that only from their preparatory meeting turns into the conclusions of twenty eights. That's something I don't think is good for a European project. And that's why that more speed principle has to be inclusive for everyone. Whether everyone will be simultaneously ready for a step towards further integration is another issue. But being open and able to participate from the beginning is the same for everyone there is the point. And they figured that out for me, the leaders of the largest and most influential states.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33355	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're moving on to the debate now. So I'm opening a debate. The first to speak is SDP's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome the Prime Minister with his associates and thank him for coming to inform us of the European Council meeting held in Brussels on 9 March and informal meetings held in Malta and Brussels. The formal meetings of the European Council are important because they draw conclusions that serve as policy guidelines for making EU formal decisions. But informal meetings are also important. I would dare say that this time they have come to a formal meeting, and the future of Europe, or the EU, has been discussed. The President of the European Commission came to the EU member states with a White Paper on the future of Europe, citing five alternative EU development directions. It is evident that the White Paper is the result of European Commission frustration due to the inability to manage European affairs successfully in the current conditions of inconsistency, selfishness and disunity of EU Member States. It is increasingly said that European integration went too fast and too deep. The political elites were ready for it, not the citizens. There is not enough time left for European citizens to fully co-operate with the degree of integration achieved and to make its functioning in practice sustainable and universally accepted. The transition period from one phase to another stage of integration requires a clear vision of this second phase and of the next upcoming phase. This vision is missing Europe today. Disappointed by the national political leadership of the Member States have raised high expectations from the EU to solve their problems and satisfy their wishes. The EU has failed to do so fully. Things are better, they're much better but they're not what the citizens of Europe expected. Failure is largely the result of the selfishness of the Member States and the unwillingness to sincerely advocate a common matter that will benefit all of them and the EU as a whole in the long term. The desire for unrealistic, rapid results leads to an insistence on its own interests to a extent that damages both collective and long-term. This paves the way for populists in the Member States to gain sympathy and support from citizens by pointing out their own national long-term interests and common European interests. Popularism and nationalism are starting to part the EU, and there you are, Mr. Prime Minister. Each crisis is used to indicate that the EU is not up to the demands of time and that national governments need to get more involved, i.e. take over from the EU business management. The responsibility for the situation continues to be transferred to the EU while the governments of the Member States take credit for any possible positive element. Political leaders compete in a populist way to show the public that they have protected and realised their own interests within the EU without mentioning the European common interest. The EU has its hands tied because decisions are made by Member States not by the European Commission. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the future of the EU directly affects the direction of further development of the Republic of Croatia and concerns all citizens of our country. Therefore, the position and policy of the Republic of Croatia towards the future of Europe and the alternatives given in the White Paper must be formed through the consensus of the left and right and the minimum of their SDP and HDZ headquarters parties. A consensually established position will be a platform for the operation of all future Croatian governments. It must come from a referendum decision by Croatian citizens to want the Republic of Croatia in the EU. The three points you have advocated on the European Council are principled and acceptable. However, Croatia's position should be further defined. Because if we're not going to Brussels with our own position, then we're not going to be able to do it on our own. The SDP president invited you to discuss key issues for Croatia's future. You didn't answer him. I hope you are aware that the issue of the future of the EU and Croatia is also one such issue. Today, no one can decide independently and unilaterally with long-term consequences for Croatia's future and represent such views on the European Council or the Council of EU Ministers. These are important questions for our future and require a consensus of left and right. Ideally, it would be through a joint declaration of parliamentary parties here in the Parliament. I therefore call on you on behalf of the SDP Club to discuss and jointly define the European direction of Croatia, i.e. the consensual formation of Croatian views on alternative proposals made by the President of the European Commission Juncker. Today, under this item of the agenda, we cannot enter into a detailed debate on the White Paper and the future of Europe. The SDP has already asked for this issue in the Committee on European Affairs for discussion, and after that we will also ask for a debate in the Parliament's plenary. But this debate does not exclude conversation with foreign policy co-creators. It would be best if those talks were held here in the Parliament. The European leaders' decision on the direction in which the EU will continue to be expected by the end of this year, and the agreement to adopt a 2007 Berlin-based declaration to stand by heads of state and government and the European Parliament and the European Commission during the meeting in Rome on 25 March, indicating the path Europe wants to continue, does not leave us much time to create a Croatian position. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Parliament, the SDP club expects to base the SDP initiative as soon as possible to organise a meeting or a series of parliamentary left and right-hand leaders' meetings to establish the position of the Republic of Croatia on the future of the EU and Croatia in it. We're not wasting our time, let's get to work, here's a chance for you to demonstrate community. If you don't do it, we will. On other issues from the agenda of the European Council, I would like to draw attention to those who are very often in the session of major political crises, which are important for every citizen of Europe and Croatia. One such issue is food safety and the same quality of products in the Western and Eastern European markets. Our representative in the European Parliament, Mrs Biljana Borzan, is working extremely on this issue. The government should give her full support in this work. It is totally unacceptable that the same products, the same producers, differ in quality or whether they are intended for the western or eastern parts of the EU. There are no first-class and second-rate members in the EU, and this situation suggests that they exist in practice. There should be a decisive and hasty intervention. These things directly contribute to the erosion of European citizens' trust in the EU. The SDP Club is also interested in the position of the Government towards the North Stream 2 pipeline, which is also marginally mentioned on the European Council. On the European Council, Denmark has requested a more detailed study of the impact of this project on the EU, and part of the Council has denied its support because, in their opinion, it undermines the support given by the EU to Ukraine. For Croatia, the project is also important from the aspect of our support for the TAP IAP pipeline that would bring Caspian gas to Eastern and South Europe. North Stream 2 could be seen as a competitive project targeting the same market, which also affects Croatian interests. Prime Minister, I would like to commend you for accepting the SDP proposal I made from this place on behalf of the SDP Club during the debate on your first report from the European Council on 26 June last year. The government therefore accepted the SDP's initiative to try to transfer the European Medicines Agency from London to Zagreb after the exit of the UK from the EU. Keep working actively on it as our European parliamentarians do. I would also like to commend you for taking seriously the warnings and SDP proposals on the migrant crisis, and by supporting the Maltese Declaration, you have also sought a focused focus on the eastern Mediterranean route which is at this time stable. Relations between some EU and Turkey, as we know, are not idyllic and you never know when Turkey will decide to put pressure on the EU again by opening this migrant route. Such a thing is certainly not in our interest, but we cannot simply influence such decisions. Therefore, we can only try to work together with partners within the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33357	Thank you, too. I commend you so much for the Prime Minister. We're moving on to replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33358	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, Mr. Klisovic, you have continued this story of populistism and ok, that's some sense for critics of some European economic policies, but I would now ask if the President of Iceland was a populist when he took the banking sector and financial institutions and gave it to his people, was he also a populist then? Because you are mindful of the EU's economic policy and these stories of structural reform, fiscal consolidation means that it is a second term for austerity measures. Now, I support the austerity measures, but the austerity measures against those who have more than a small man has. No austerity measures against those who do not already have, which are in the blockades, which are in debt slavery, are the policy of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank which has the right to be questioned both in the European Parliament and in national parliaments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33359	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. A fairer distribution of social wealth has been created in one community, in one country, the agenda and the SDP and the social democracy as such are certainly in one society. Therefore, we cannot support any form of kidnapping, anyone over anyone. If the President of Iceland has taken away legally by leading democratic policy, then it is a matter of his policy, not of populism. Just as the prime minister of Iceland resigned when his account was found to be on offshore banks to avoid taxes. Therefore, this is not about populistism. To know what populism is, you have to read what populism is. Most of all, it comes down to people trying to manipulate the masses in a way that they promise them something they don't intend to do afterwards, and they only promise to get their support and come to power. Now, we do not support this, and we do not support it in the context of the European Union either. Because the increasingly prominent attempt to come to power in the Member States through unfounded criticisms of the European Union for swimming, riding on that sentiment of a part of the public in its own countries which is not satisfied with its own lives, which is blamed by the European Union. This is what we do not support because I believe that Croatia can make much better progress, develop along with other European Union members by sharing the same values, the same market allowing our young people to school abroad, to acquire knowledge or find employment, rather than to do so alone in their borders. That's what this is about. And that's why I think populism is very harmful and very irresponsible and I will personally fight it. I'll say what I think, and I'll do what I say. Now, that's what the populists don't do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33361	Thank you. Second replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33362	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Klisovic, I must confess that you have succeeded in making me laugh with this last statement that you will do what you say. And basically this debate of yours was only good in one segment when you called for a consensus. But you surprised me by the fact that you used this debate for politics in which you said that the consensus of the Croatian people should represent HDZ and SDP agreements. As much as you've introduced yourself here as a left. I don't know what right you've been speaking on behalf of the CNS. That's what they know for you. I don't know why that deal would shut down the Bridge. Why would national minorities and other parties in the Croatian Parliament be excluded? You call yourself left-handed and say you do what you say. But I didn't notice that you left, authentic, first. It's enough to read your candidate's interview with Mr. Clem, so that's an interview he wouldn't be ashamed of. He'd probably reach some consensus with you. You're supposed to be left, implementing soulless executive law. You haven't unblocked the citizens. You haven't solved youth unemployment. In your day, young people were mass evicting. You've got big capital. And in fact, your rhetoric while you were in power was no different from Mr. Plenkovic's rhetoric. I don't see any difference. Therefore, I believe your two parties can reach a consensus. But to call it the consensus of the Croatian people or the consensus of the right and left, I think it's extremely pretentious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33363	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33364	Dear Mr. Bunjac, I think you've slept through a good part of the mandate of the former SDP government, but good. That's why we won't blame you. You're young. On the other hand, when I talk about talking and doing what I think, then I talk about myself primarily. And I've never heard anyone call me for it. They usually call me because of other people. Well, that's what you did today, too, because I don't think it's justified. When I was talking about left and right, I thought I'd cover the entire spectrum politically, not just the far left or the far right party. And if you were careful, I was saying that the best ideal place would be to discuss it here in Parliament and bring a declaration of the future of the European Union and of Croatia in this House in Parliament. So, by all parliamentary parties, all those voted for by Croatian citizens, and that is your party. So I included you, not just the HDZ and the SDP. But without the SDP and HDZ's consensus on such key issues, Croatia's future will not go through with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33365	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33366	Thank you, Chairman Jandrokovic. This time, my criticism goes not to Prime Minister Plenkovic, but to a colleague of Klisovic who said that the SDPs, or their social democratic alleged organisation, are. On behalf of her he said we can't support any form of kidnapping. Well, Mr. Klisovic, while you were in power, you were just supporting the kidnapping because I don't know how else to call this quasi legal system a performance in Croatia. So I'm going to read a piece of the article in yesterday's list. Official solutions to public notebooks are not valid in the European Union. Germany's Adac has informed its 18 million members that they are objecting to a solution to the execution of public notebooks from the Republic of Croatia on the matter of the EU Court's decision. For days now, the first notice has been on the web. page of Adaca's largest German and European autoclub, which brings together 18 million members. The Court of Justice of the European Union's ruling on the failed attempt by Parking Pula to collect a 13-euro debt for the unpaid parking of Sven Klaus Tederan, a member of the Adacs from Berlin. All Adac members have been informed that such a case is objecting to such a public record of Croatia's performance because it is not available in Germany and other members of the European Union except Croatia. So, in Croatia, executions are carried out by public notebooks, not by courts, and that is why there was an epidemic and flood of the conduct of the HDZ Government decision, or then Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. You could have stopped that form of kidnapping at the time, but you didn't. You've allowed a system like this to work and thousands of citizens to lose their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33367	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33368	Mr. Chairman, I thought the replicas were submitted to the exhibit, not to the replica, or to the reply to the replica of the other representative. So, in my presentation, I didn't mention the kidnapping or the executive law or anything like that. That was one answer to Mr. Bunjec's replica. So there must have been a breach of the Rules of Procedure here. So I don't want to talk specifically about it, except that the foundation of social democracy is to prevent the kidnapping and to establish a fairer distribution of socially created wealth. To polarise now why and what the government of Jadranka Kosor did, as my colleague Pernar mentioned, and in what way the SDP's government was correcting it, I don't think it makes any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33369	Thank you. The president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, also called for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33370	Thank you, dear colleague Klisovic. Just a few comments on your exposure. First, this topic is about who is launching the dialogue and is looking for a consensus on foreign policy. So I repeat once again what we are doing after the European Councils is useful for the Croatian Parliament. I think that's where we agree. All the materials the Government is working on are also addressed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs and to other committees, if they are Council formations. So, the Parliament is under way with numerous activities and positions of the Croatian government on a number of issues that are not always as much media attractive as those that come to the very level of the European Council. As for the consensus on the future of Europe, what I have pointed out at this point, therefore the Roman Declaration will be a brief document, a document that sends those important main messages, which 60 years after the fact that we are going practically simultaneously in the process of implementing Article 50 on the exit of a member who has never happened before. And I think about these three points, I don't know if you've seen the draft text for Rome, but I'm not sure if you've seen it or not. If you had seen that text then you would have understood why we insisted on these three basic points, because they are just guessing at the essence of that and giving additional elements of the declaration in such a way that what those who made the drafts were made by Juncker, Tusk, the Maltese Prime Minister and the Italian Prime Minister. So those four are the authors of the first draft. It must give away the dose and the reality and the opening of the way forward. On the other hand, I think that you and the vast majority of Croatian political parties and MPs would support these three points that we have highlighted. Secondly, when it comes to the aspect of dialogue between the SDP and the Government or HDZ, I am in favour of dialogue. I'm always in favor of dialogue, though. However, you must also somehow structure your concept and cooperation. On the one hand and the initiative of the dialogue, and on the other hand, we have both interpretations and constitutional lawsuits and a vote of mistrust to the members of the government and we have just begun. We have to choose which mechanism to cooperate with, that's what's important. We are open to dialogue, but then it must be a dialogue based on what is called trust, which is called a partnership for topics that are strategically important for Croatia. That's how I see it. And I'm sure when you mentioned representatives in the European Parliament, one small example. Unlike your government when you were deputy minister or when your former leader was Prime Minister, we never met as agents, and the same people we were from your party, HDZ with the then government. When it comes to my government, we have met thoroughly, all colleagues, independently of party membership, are given positions of the Croatian State and the Croatian Government on certain issues and thus become exactly what they should be, the last filter of articulation of national interests in the process of co-decision between the Council and Parliament at European level. I'm doing it because I was aware how hard it was on your mind if someone else who had information didn't volunteer her. I have no reason or any of us to keep secrets. All information is available, ask some of your colleagues. It is easier for them to work in this way than in the way that you imagined practice at that point very stingyly on me with insufficient cooperation with European representatives. We also change this practice, and to the benefit of Croatian interests and legal texts that can reflect our views. Because you know enough yourself. It is not easy to get all the formulations through the decision-making structure at Council level if you do not have support beyond. Sometimes coalition alliances at Parliament level are easier to achieve than they are at Council level. Remember, for example, the resolution concerning the Serbian Law on the jurisdiction of state institutions for war crimes. It's a lot harder to get him through the council. You didn't do it. The HDZ Government has one particular way in the formulations of the past, but in the European Parliament it was the clearest and for the first time emancipated in a European document. So when we call for dialogue, we put into one broader context and look at the few of your activities towards the government, not just what the Government is doing towards the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33371	I thank the Prime Minister. The next debate is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33372	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As you already know, the Living Wall opposes EU policy in this form, and we actually want to offer a different view of this report, and according to the Prime Minister's wishes this time we will talk to some exact indicators. So let's compare some figures and let's see what we got in this European report in the first place, hopefully most of the MPs were able to at least look at it if we don't read it, so let's see where Croatia is in the Euro-Atlantic integration process. Here's an exact indicator, for example. when Croatia declared its independence in 1991, it had 4 million 600,000 inhabitants, today there are 4 million after 25 years, perhaps a little less since one part of the citizens who are registered here do not live in the Republic of Croatia. If things were normal for some normal time, Croatia would have 5 million people today, but not only had there not been an increase in the population in 25 years but there had been a sharp decline, so about 15% of the population was 10 to 15% missing. It is such damage that Croatia will not recover for the next 100 years. These are our pre-accession negotiations, celebrations for entering, entering, staying, one exact indicator. In this report, among other things, there are some, let's say positive facts, for example. that those citizens within the euro area still have much confidence in the euro, but they do not write data that those countries that are not in the euro area, for example. The Czech Republic, Hungary or others no longer trust the euro. So that trust moves about 10 to 15% and they have no intention of entering the euro zone. Among other things, in some individual European countries such as Austria, trust in the euro is very low. In any case, even in these countries where trust exists is a tendency to reduce trust. So once there was confidence 90%, today it's 70, 60% or less. Obviously, there is a problem with that euro. We also have, we have adapted to European legislation, the judiciary that as Western Balkans finally say here, bring some culture to law, but we read that in Croatia now with all these European laws that we have introduced 1% of citizens trust the judiciary, 1%. I think that is the level if absolutely all judges should be those who are in responsible places to resign and ask themselves, wait a minute where we have reached that 1%, I believe that 1% in Croatia support 1% of people in Croatia believe that there are Martians, let's say, that's that level. It means total mistrust. And it has been said that we with the EU are going to get legal certainty, the rule of law. On the other hand, EU directives come, and I have already spoken of this regulation several times in this House, but also in the instructions from the European Commission. Here's the last one today we've read that it has to move the retirement line to 67 years. And what is Croatia waiting for? It's this structural reform that's been mentioned all along, so let's translate structural reform equally we'll be working until 67. Is this the end? It's not. We've been in the Living Wall for 67 years. We believe that it must be 65, that a man has the right to be retired, has the right to rest a little after all and enjoy a little more in life. But do you know there's a proposal in Germany to retire at the age of 73? It's an official proposal, that's what Croatian citizens need to know. So it's not over at 67, it's not at 71 but at 73, and today it's kind of an average age of Croatian men, if women don't already live a little longer, which means that the right to retirement is practically abolished. The European Commission is looking for a sale of state property. We are against, we believe that state property must remain in our hands, at least it of strategic importance. Someone's gonna say the state is a bad master, someone's gonna say it's a free market. Go to the U.S. and buy an oil company, free market, buy it. You can have a thousand billion euros, you certainly won't buy it. And why is that? Because they protect national interests. No country in the world except some couple like Croatia will give up its energy sector. What about INA? We have with INA that it is mostly the owner of MOL, we have a situation that since 2013 since we joined the EU business with loss, that we have had a reduction in reserves and oil and gas and that at this point INA has fewer gas stations in Croatia than competition. INA is in the descending path, and in fact we are becoming energy dependent on foreigners, on foreign corporations, which is definitely not good for Croatia. Of course, the EU will say, so Croatia does not even exist, which you care about, you are part of the EU. Here she was a colleague of Strenja's with me in Brussels when we were in one session and there she kept talking about EU territory, no one was talking about the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Refugees enter EU territory, meaning the refugee who arrived in Osijek, did not come to Vinkovce's territory but came to EU territory. Is that what the citizens wanted at the time of the 2013 referendum. It's also said that GDP is growing. GDP has increased 2.8, 2.9% and as far as we could track according to statistical reports, but that's still not enough to even pay the interest. So, not even to pay the interest. At the same time, it is not said, and this report mentions that the share of European GDP in the world economy is constantly falling. It means that the European Union is actually getting weaker and weaker than the rest of the world. So we are fooling ourselves by the fact that a few quarters of GDP has grown with which we cannot pay even the interest, let alone the principal, and we do not notice that the European Union is, in general, losing its power economically, and it has been said that by unifying this economic power will be on the rise. It is also not said that the number of citizens of the European Union is decreasing compared to the rest of the world's population regardless of all these refugees, migrants, etc. So Europe has a percentage of less and less global population, which further suggests that something with this European Union is wrong or that trends are not positive, but actually trends are negative. It is said that the European Union helps reduce unemployment. In Croatia, only by moving people. If it's a reduction in unemployment, it's not exactly our honor. We still have over 200 grand. The government wants to say that great progress has been made, and in 1971 when Croatia was in great pain, when the Croatian Spring took place, do you know how many of Croatia's unemployed according to official statistics? Forty grand. 40,000, and now 200 grand and more after a large number of residents moved out. We like to criticise how it used to be a time of darkness, and I'm not saying it wasn't, there was a lot of things. But from 1952 to 1965. Croatia has 9 and a half% GDP growth as well as China, as well as Japan. We were the first five countries in the world to grow GDP, and now we look forward to having a deep recession after 8 years for which someone is also responsible, so they're not likely to be populists, we have a little growth of 2.3% that isn't enough to go back to the pre-crisis period of 2007, 8 years, let alone make some extra progress. The European Union, among other things, is asking us to implement their tax policy. They determine what VAT will be, they now impose a tax on our property. If I am not mistaken in Croatia, we have 3 thousand 500 taxes and different parataxes, the fee and ours is that taxes can only be reduced or abolished. Any new taxes lead to further poverty of Croatian citizens, further executions, further blockades, further emigration. This is the policy of the European Union against which we oppose. Among other things, it says here that only one third of its citizens trust the European Union. 2/3 doesn't believe it anymore. Should this move us to think? Where are we? Should Croatia redefine its position within the European Union? Should Croatia at all be a member of this organisation? We think time is running out. We do not think that Croatia must remain in the European Union at all costs. The price of going out is still very small, very small, you wouldn't believe how small. We have our own kuna. We have most of the infrastructure. We have what is called, still different elements of modernity, and we must be careful to preserve Croatian modernity, the Croatian freedom that we have come to very hard after the exhausting struggle. We especially need to highlight some more things, which is that Croatia has lost a number of other elements of national strategic interest such as the optical network that we do not have anti-aircraft defense today. We also have to notice that the NATO Alliance is asking us to increase the defenses to 2%, and we don't have that money. We must note that, among other things, membership in the European Union costs us 4 billion kuna a year, and we are not quite clear what we are getting in return for this money. Finally, we should say that several time bombs are ticking in Croatia right now. One of them I already said INA. Then of course there's HEP. Then there are different collective agreements that will have to be fulfilled. And what we heard during today's debate is the issue of Agrokor, which is in charge of 25 billion kuna, which has 40,000 employees, which has a whole series of cooperatives. And the question arises, are we thinking about this whole context and all the consequences that can come from it we can today be satisfied with our stay in the European Union or with the report submitted by our prime minister, which is supposed to be very positive and encouraging? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33373	Thank you very much. We're expected to have a series of replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33374	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It was nice to listen to Mr. Bunjec, he speaks well, he has a lot of facts, he throws himself at them. But I couldn't understand what the poet was going to say. He allegedly praises the Republic of Croatia, if it is, the rates of growth. He forgets we didn't build a 50km highway from Zagreb to Karlovac at the time. So much for the development of Croatia's SR and the development of Croatia in socialism. We've done a lot, we've been a very successful society, a strong economy. And there it is documented to the Croatian public as you manipulate it. You said on one example, you said there was an official proposal in Germany to retire at the age of 73. That's not true. It's a proposal from a German institute to assess an institute called the German Economy Institute. Last year, the institute forecasted a retirement age to be 73 years in May. The official proposal does not exist except for Mr. Shoble's proposal by the finance and youth ministers of the CDU to raise the age to 70 years. However, the minister, Federal Minister of Labour, Mrs Nalez of the SPD, opposes that. Therefore, Germany does not have an official proposal to raise the retirement age to 73 years. Just enough for the Croatian public to see how you manipulate, how you throw data, how you poison the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33375	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33376	Thank you very much, Reverend Kovac. You wanted to talk about the numbers and you got the numbers. That's what your prime minister today in his presentation demanded we go with exact indicators. Now that you've heard the exact indicators, you're saying I'm poisoning the public. That's how you communicate. I'm surprised that a person with such a dictionary can be a foreign minister. And here, I'm going to deny you right now. You claim that the German Institute is some sort of non-important organization, but you yourself, your party ordered the Institute to build you a program of your party for the Republic of Croatia. You called the info institute in Croatia. You believe that there are not enough intelligent and capable people in Croatia who could lead Croatian politics, so you invite institutes that you are now demeaning and calling them Croatian public space poisoners for some nonsense. There. Therefore, if I have brought you numbers and if they have come to the institute, and you yourself are referring to institutes and looking for numbers, then I ask you to deny me numbers rather than insulting personal comments. There. That would be what I'd like. But you can't. You'll just never accept the arguments either way. For you, it is only acceptable to raise your hands by directive, blind implementation of EU regulations, recommendations and simply do not want to see around you how the Croatian people live. And that's very easy, you just have to want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33377	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33378	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you touched me with your speech, because you said that we did not benefit from the EU at all. Here we are, the prime minister earlier convinced us, now he's gone, we don't know why he left, that the EU has helped us. I'm asking in what way. The number of employees since joining the EU has dropped. That's an exact piece of information. The number of evicted citizens following their entry into the EU has escalated particularly young people. Trend depopulations have accelerated. Real estate tax is introduced. Keep an eye out, this is an important piece of information. The government debt is growing vertically up. The biggest concert in Croatia, Agrokor, is ahead of the break. We had to close down the Queen's shipyard because the EU asked for it. Where does the EU take us? I'll give you another example, Mr. Bunjac, Your Honor. Croatia had to lift its customs duties to EU countries after joining the EU even though it knew that goods from those countries would be cheaper than domestically and that there would be a complete break of domestic production. At the same time, apart from losing our own market, Croatia again imposes sanctions on the Russian Federation through EU directives and remains without the foreign market it had until then. The EU's overall policy is by its nature negative for our society and it is only a matter of moment when our people will understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33379	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33380	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. Of course, we are not a competitive EU, nor do we have protectionism, which means we were not ready to join the EU that existed many years before us. We could not meet the conditions for the euro, we could not meet the conditions for Schengen and for some other European frameworks. And now we hear that Europe will move to a few speeds. Here it is in this document contained some five speeds. And now I would like to ask you and the Croatian citizens at which speed Croatia will move. So, are we going to move at first or fifth speed? It is clear that Croatia will move at first speed. Yes, says MP Pernar in reverse because we simply cannot meet the same conditions as Germany because in order to meet the same conditions they would simply have to give us. So you should give it to us. They would have to participate in some way in giving Croatia equality in full terms, and they would of course never do so. Therefore, they will simply leave Croatia at some margin of events, on some side of social events. They will continue to send us their directives and regulations that we will have to carry out blindly, and they will not act alone as France, for example, does not adhere to the excessive deficit Regulation. In fact, we will be treated this way as the Prime Minister said just before, and what we care about is some dispute between Croatia and Slovenia, when we have such big problems. It may still be a question of the Adriatic Sea to anyone, but for us living here, it is the most important question of all, and we want to take care of it, not about how much gas there is in air conditioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33381	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of Tomislav Zhagar's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33382	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, of course, that in life we often need to think and question our decisions and all the beliefs we have. I am today, today on the agenda of the report on the work of the European Council submitted by the prime minister to the Croatian Parliament. But I understand that report in this way that the prime minister is talking about the Croatian government here. So, not about the European Community, the European Union, but about the Croatian Government and the work of the Croatian Government. 90% of what you said, and I agree with you. There are many difficulties we face. But let's put ourselves like this when we talk about speeds, when we talk about what the European Union has brought us. You're well said we'll probably go in first gear. I voted personally for Croatia's entry into the European Union because I thought Croatia should play in the first league. You should play on that playground where there are those rules. But why didn't it happen? We have a National Competitiveness Council. As far as I can tell, he's meeting regularly. The European Commission's report suggests that we must work hard on the business climate, on the labour market and on public finances. You're here to touch one part of the labour market, and that's the pension system. So what is necessary in Croatia, and for which is the responsibility of the Croatian government and the prime minister who is here today, is the implementation of these reforms. Let me put it another way. It is not our fault that the European Union is in this situation. It is our fault, all of our governments that have been so far, and we will be guilty tomorrow if we do not make reforms to which we are called, not for the sake of the welfare of the European Union. For the sake of our own well-being. And if we change the pension system, we have to change it because of Croatian citizens to have bigger pensions tomorrow, not to have fewer. So, first of all, a competitive economy, and this can only be achieved by the work of the Croatian government, through good work. And now to blame the European Union again. Or let me put it this way, is an alternative to getting out of the European Union, I wouldn't be taking that risk right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33383	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33384	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sagar, at the very beginning, would only briefly correct you. Namely, you say the prime minister present here. He's not here. He's probably when I'm talking he doesn't dare be in the assembly anymore. I hope they show up when the other MPs speak. And as for you, as for your good wishes for Croatia to be in the first league, I would describe it this way, many citizens who were seduced by the propaganda that was therefore designed, thought that by entering the European Union they would come to the table where the feast was held. And yes, they came for that table, but we're getting crumbs. We're not even guests at that table. We are those guests, as if they had come uninvited guests, guests across the board, unrequited guests, and we do not therefore have equal rights as other citizens of the European Union do. Because if we did, I guess someone from that European Union would move in with us. I guess there'd be 100,000 workers from Austria, Germany, France. I suppose we would also have the right to organise a referendum for exiting the European Union, which there is no way that a number of other rights could happen in Croatia which so-called European countries have the first speeds, and Croatia does not have them. So we don't have our energy independence. We don't have our optical grid. We don't have our own anti-aircraft defense. 98% of banks are owned by foreign banks. So what do we have to talk about next, what's the first league? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33385	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33386	Your Honor, Vice President. You have said a lot in your speech about the European Union and the well-being of the European Union and negotiating with the European Union as we entered it. I believe that there has been a big mistake that is very little talk about because those who have negotiated essentially did not negotiate, expressed their views and imposed the views of the Republic of Croatia, but simply copied and wrote in our legislation what the European Union did not order them to do, but substrate. And what is even worse is far stricter than what was essentially expected of Croatia by the European Union. I would refer to that part of your debate where you said that many countries in the world do not allow certain state assets to be sold strategically important to these countries. Unfortunately, we lost the INA first in the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid we're on our way now to get HEP to go that way. And what I'm particularly interested in because I come from Sisak-Moslavina County from the City of Kutina, and I wanted to ask the prime minister, I'm sorry he's not here, otherwise it's rarely here so I can't ask him, and this time I'm not so lucky, what is it with Petrochemy Kutina? Will this government preserve Petrochemy Kutina mainly state-owned? Because all those who produce agriculture know the importance of a stable supply of artificial fertilisers, quality artificial fertilisers, as well as other influences of Petrokemia Kutina and HZ Cargo, and of car carriers, and of the entire region around Petrokemia, means the population that works there, earns the income of how big the influence of Petrokemia is. Will we allow Petrochemy to go into private hands to be bought by someone who does not care about the Republic of Croatia and agricultural production? And are we finally going to settle this deal with Plin so that he can be far more suitable for Petrochemy so that Petrochemy can survive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33387	Thank you very much, colleague Lenart. I let you talk even though what you were saying has nothing to do with the subject or which you're talking about, and you didn't really replicate your colleagues. But he'll probably answer something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33388	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, what do we have in Croatia today? We have refineries and Petrochemy that are not modernized. Our gas and oil reserves are very weak. So we don't have energy independence. We're going to fight hard with Hungarian MOL and these stories that you can buy half of INA for a quarter of HEP are simply unreal. Maybe if someone said a quarter of INA could buy half of HEP, they might believe it. But this reverse option is definitely not true. But the prime minister has an answer for that. He promises us a digital future. And now it seems to me like a promise of heaven – you citizens will live 80 years in great misery and poverty, but when you die, then you will go to heaven and there you will finally have prosperity. So is our prime minister while people are running electricity companies for people who own a single light bulb owned by paralyzed old people, they're being told but you'll have a digital future, only they'll never experience it. That's the one minus. So everything will be beautiful, wonderful and wonderful, but not in our lives. Well, then I guess when another generation of Croats comes in 20, 30, 40 years, they'll be told the same thing, you know, it's not good now, but in 100 years, you'll probably be fine with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33389	Thank you. What a replica like that and an answer. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you said in your statement that barely 1/3 of European Union citizens trust the European Union and at one point you challenged us to consider whether Croatia should stay in the European Union at all. I'm really interested in what you think exactly. I also said that the European Union, in its presentation, did not achieve all the expectations of European citizens, but that it was important for us better than when we were not in the European Union there were any other countries in Eastern Europe, and I gave a whole series of reasons why this is the case. One of them is the behaviour of the national governments of the Member States. Do you think Croatia is better off for its overall development of economic, social, political, for its security, security of its citizens and state territory to close within its national borders and live in this space 4 and a half million people without any contact with the outside world, or is it better to use the capacities common in the European Union to use the common market, to provide people with education in the most prestigious universities? You said yourself, no one comes to Croatia from the European Union. And I ask you where the Croatian citizens go, both young and old, and educated and uneducated? To the Member States of the European Union. So why are they going there? Well, obviously because they think they're better off living there. You see, our goal is to make Croatia exactly such a state that there is no longer any need to leave this country, that standards, ways of thinking, dominant values in society are equal as in one Germany, France, Great Britain that comes out or Italy. That's the goal, and it's not the goal of closing yourself in, insulating. So what? Vegetate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33391	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33392	Thank you very much. This information about 1/3 that believes I took from page 12 of this report, just to clarify that. And this question you asked me you would not believe, take a stenogram of the 1861 Croatian Parliament, so a 155-year-old parliament stenogram and read it and you will find the same questions there, the same debate as we are now having. Some have spoken Croatia is too small, it cannot be alone, it has to be integrated, it has to be connected to Austria, Hungary, and I don't know who it's all with, and I don't know who it's going to be able to prosper with at all. But Ante Starcevic, read there is a stenogram, said it should be Croatia just as much as seen from the Zagreb cathedral but be free and its own. And here it is out there you'd like to see Ante Starčević. You've got it on a thousand kunas. You of course have them in your pocket, so look at his picture, and think about his words, so think about why his bust is there now, and it is not clear to those who said that Croatia is small and that he cannot do it alone. Make Croatia free. We stand in the position of the old manhood of the one from 1861 that Croatia must be an independent, sovereign state in which all decisions relevant to the Croatian people will be made by its own citizens and elected representatives from the people. You, of course, represent the other side. But I must tell you that you will find it very difficult to come to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33393	Thank you very much. I hope that no one in the Parliament represents the one in Croatia that would only be seen from the Zagreb cathedral tower. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33394	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bunjac you called out for actually Junostalgia from 55 to 62, and you don't even know what was going on back then. In my family, there are 50% of the young population, so children and eight of them, for example. went abroad with “the belly after bread” Tito’s policy which, for example, showed what and how she was dealing with the problem of unemployment. If you looked at the statistics themselves, you saw here in a report saying that the share of the population of the European Union in the total world was falling, so from 25% came to 6% in 2015, that's true. And these are data that are actually data used by this very government to improve and impose policy and demographic policy and to correct the overall situation in our country, which all other European Union countries should be very much guided by. So all of this is happening, and it's very reflecting on us. But you have also forgotten that the European Union is the largest donor of development and humanitarian aid, so over $74 billion or 56% of the total aid comes from the European Union, therefore, all members of the European Union. So we should look at the other side, and we can't just swear on the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33395	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33396	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peric, I have no idea how to call Yugoslavia because I know very well that this country was nothing but a kind of milder dungeon for the Croatian people. That country if it was working, it wouldn't fall apart. She would have survived. But when you look at those exact indicators that you are referring to, you simply have to accept that some things were better then and that a large part of Croatian citizens, not just me, think that it was better then, especially those who lived at the time. For example, at that time, the relationship between employees and pensioners was 3:1. It's 1:1 now. So was that better? It was better. It's undeniable. And today we would be overjoyed if we had a 2:1 relationship between employees and pensioners, let alone 3:1. On the other hand, when you talk about the complete rejection of the European Union, we are not for the complete refusal of the European Union. So the Living Wall isn't for tomorrow's date referendum. We are in favour of negotiating and strengthening our position, to strengthen our role in the European Union on a fully equal basis. But if that's not possible, we're the party that's ready to go out. And we fear that most of the current parliamentary parties in the Croatian Parliament at no cost at all, at no cost, at the cost of total loss of sovereignty, perhaps even the loss of Croatian territory would not be ready to call a referendum on leaving the European Union and that is what concerns us. We're worried about a lack of caution and a lack of criticism, so if you want a fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33397	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33398	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I've listened very carefully to your debate and we've really heard a lot of things. But I'd like to hear from you some answers. Say, is there a state that fits your policies that you represent here, means you appoint it? Where you would like to live, this country is exactly the same, and it is not Croatia with all its faults and problems, and it is not even part of the European Union. Secondly, what I have noticed is your strong opposition to all the institutions of the European Union and the European Union itself and this suggests that the Living Wall does not intend to go to elections for the European Parliament in 2019 even though my information speaks differently. They are just saying that the lady you replaced has concluded on her own that she does not want to sit in the Croatian Parliament, that her goal is to enter the European Parliament and represent the views of the Living Wall there. So, a little contradiction again. Then you have also provided a number of data that would simply be quite different if we were, say, when we were created as an independent state in the European Union or in some other associations, so you listed the population number 91. But we went to the European Union in 2013. But it is the European Union's fault that we now have fewer inhabitants than 91. You forgot we had a war. So you led me to her, i.e. You said four billion kunas in the budget. So far, we haven't paid four billion. Mostly about 3 billion and 200 million kunas. Incomes in the last two years are much higher than what we pay. I guess that's some kind of benefit we wanted, huh? The question is, have we taken advantage of everything at our disposal? It's the task of politics. Your colleague from the club often calls for decisions of the European Court in his conflict with banks and says that's a good decision, and you say that nothing is wrong. Well, it's either good, or it's not good. But what you're representing, it cuts off with each other, Mr. Bunyan, so it would be good for you to say here. Which is the state by your standards so perfect. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33399	Thank you. Here you will now be answered by the esteemed representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33400	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, here's what I'm going to tell you three states right now. Iceland, Ecuador, Dominican Republic. One of your countries is from Europe, two of them are out of Europe. Why is that? You've got the Internet, so take a look at it. You'll probably find some link to that program that offers the Living Wall. You now, like your colleague Klisovic, say one thing, I do what I say, mention some representatives of the Living Wall, the future and the present, but your coalition partners say that you speak one thing and the other you do. They say that you are referring to democratic values only as a form but that there is no content, that in your practice you do not actually follow these Christian values. That's not what I said. That's what the president of the party you're in the coalition with said. So if you're doing one thing, you're going to church, I don't know when to paint, and in practice you're setting up those candidates who have nothing to do with those same values. So first, when you want to arbitrate in the Living Wall, you're going to acquit a little bit in your coalition, so either break up or just say, that the truth is, we're actually talking and we're talking as well as before any election directed by the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33401	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the next one will speak for the Honorable Representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33402	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Foreign Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, we accept this report from the Prime Minister and in this regard we have proposed a conclusion. This report is a regular report that we receive after the meetings of the European Council, but of course this report falls at a special point in the situation when we start and with a wide debate on the future of the EU. We recently concluded at a meeting of the European Affairs Committee that we will have a broad discussion on the White Paper of the European Commission on the future of the EU. And it is in principle an attitude that we should discuss this important issue and this important document at the plenary session of the Parliament. So in this presentation, I won't look too much at this document that will still be under discussion at the Parliament's session. When we talk about the current report and the moment at which it is submitted, the fact is that it is filed at a very specific moment that reminds us of some important anniversary. First of all, in a few days, the European Council will be in Rome and the 60th anniversary of the European Association will be celebrated, so the 60th anniversary of the Roman Treaties and the creation of the European Economic Community. But here, about 25 years since the signing of the Mastricht Treaty and the creation of the European Union of a higher degree of association of European states has been slightly more than 15 years since the adoption of the Laeken Declaration on the Future of Europe, which in the meantime faded from memory and memory, and in fact a similar declaration to what will be discussed by the heads of state and government in a few days' time in Rome. And it is just over 5 years from the referendum that we held in Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. We are the last member of the EU, the 28th member states, and there have been no new accessions since. And that's one fact that's particularly important and that we keep pointing to. He pointed to her and the Prime Minister when he referred to the conclusions of the European Council on the situation and the future and perspectives of the countries so-called. The Western Balkans. What is particularly important for Croatia is that the European perspective of these countries not only remains open but also has concrete patterns, as it is of paramount importance for Croatia. We believe that in the immediate environment of the Republic of Croatia all EU Member States are. We are particularly aware that at this point there are also very complex crisis situations in some countries very close to us, geographically, with some and bordering, with some we are not so far away. It would be extremely important for these countries to have a strong European perspective. And that's what the Republic of Croatia will stand for and that's what the Prime Minister pointed out. What is particularly important to us as an EU member in the current debate on the future of the Union is the debate on what potential scenarios we want to see in the future. What is particularly highlighted by the Prime Minister, and I support it, is that the Union must in no case be converted into a Union of first-class and second-rate Member States. The Republic of Croatia has passed a very complex, difficult and difficult road to join the EU. A very long, very complex one where we really had to overcome a number of obstacles. Certainly no Member State before us has had such a complex and long-term reception procedure. And because of the success of overcoming all obstacles, we are not in any state interest to succeed in capitalising in the future all the advantages we expect from the EU and from membership in that supernational Union. It is particularly important for us to continue, as pointed out in the conclusions we have received for this debate, that EU common policies, the European budget and its redistributive strength must be more concrete in the everyday life of all citizens. For a member of the Republic of Croatia only a few years from now, it is of exceptional importance that as much as possible capitalises the role of the European budget especially in that part that goes towards Member States' solidarity and reducing differences in economic development among all Member States. The fact is that with the times of the economic crisis and the aspirations of Member States not to strengthen the European budget, it is actually limited to coming at a time when we as the last Member State have at least capitalised and won on the basis of EU membership. In a situation where a large and significant EU member state is leaving the Union which will have significant economic repercusions especially to the EU budget, it is clear that in the future, the Republic of Croatia expects that the EU budget will not be reduced, that it will retain the very dimension of solidarity and the function it has so far, that it gives a strong boost to the development of the economy of those Member States that are below the EU average. This must be the priority objective of our policy and of our commitment to the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament, of course, and the EU Council. I have now said that this debate on the EU is taking place at a particularly important moment when we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the creation of the European Economic Community in a few days. And let me pull a parallel here with a similar marking from just over 15 years ago when another declaration was adopted that needed to be directed by the EU and given certain guidelines in the 21st century. Now a declaration is being prepared for the Roman Summit of Heads of State and Government, which is already now called the Roman Declaration, which should give EU guidelines for the future, as the draft declaration says here for at least 10 years. And now I return to the declaration that was adopted in 2001 in Laeken, which was supposed to define the EU at the beginning of the 21st century and which already indicated that the EU is at important crossroads and which is at that moment before the major enlargement of the EU, before the introduction of the euro in a situation where the world became globalised after the terrible events in 2001. 11.9. The European Union has been facing major challenges. But then it was very clear and commendable that the EU is a successful story. Today, just over 15 years later, it seems that this declaration, with all its noble intentions, did not accomplish its purpose. In fact, we have experienced a huge expansion, we have experienced the introduction of the euro. Today, the EU is almost double the number of members. However, there was a major crisis, partly resulting in the euro zone crisis. Unfortunately, the overall solidarity of all Member States has lagged behind. Meanwhile, the fact that for the first time a significant large Member State is leaving and leaving the Union has also happened. It happened that, instead of a constitution that would be an EU citizen, the Lisbon Treaty took place, which was only a pale copy of what was meant to be a Constitution for Europe. And today, just over 15 years later, we are faced with the acceptance of a Roman declaration that should define the future of the EU. Looking at the draft of that declaration, it seems to me that it provides good guidance, but it does not offer implementing mechanisms. In these guidelines, cited, on the EU's challenges, on EU achievements, on the future that we are looking for for the EU, the future EU 27 Member States lack the elements of implementation. We can absolutely agree that the objectives pursued in the draft declaration, which is one sure EU, one prosperous EU, the social EU and stronger in the world, are the goals we really need to pursue. We also want the EU to be closer to the citizens as outlined in the draft declaration. I note that the same trend was mentioned in the 2001 Leaken Declaration. Today, it is the EU that faces the most complaints from citizens of EU Member States. Many polls conducted show that unfortunately EU citizens' confidence in the future has been significantly reduced. Unfortunately, many EU citizens do not see what they saw decades earlier. It is precisely this goal that the European project must have a stronger democratic legitimacy, it must be the focus of the next European Council in Rome, but what is now not contained in this declaration is necessary, to provide for mechanisms to in fact strengthen this democratic legitimacy and greater confidence of European citizens, because that document does not, at least in its draft, provide for a broader debate on the future of Europe, any convention as foreseen by the Laeken Declaration, any broader debate of citizens, any democratic forum other than the European Council and the institutions of the Member States of the national Parliament. This should be considered, the future of the EU debate should also be left to citizens, NGOs and many other entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33403	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33404	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm listening to my colleague from MOST, Mr. Dolnjak, and I remember all those reforms and changes. And this speech of his seemed rather dry to me, I think he spoke a lot, and I'd say, in a vivid way, that he said a little bit. I wish that they would really start dealing with colleagues from MOST with real reforms, not just some amendments to laws that change or nothing or very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33405	The distinguished representative of the Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, today in this report we are talking about EU reform, we are not talking about reforming our legislation. What is our interest and what I was trying to say at the end of the exhibition is particularly important how to involve citizens in the reform of institutions. Indeed, it seems to us that at this moment the EU is losing the trust of EU citizens, its citizens. Without their support, without that trust this project will not be maintained, it is a fact and we need to see it, we need to look it in the eye. All indicators, regardless of polls, but on a vote for example for the European Parliament, show that citizens are increasingly less confident in the project if it is not radically reformed in terms of democratic legitimacy. That's what we'd like to do here in the Republic of Croatia. The laws we want to propose should strengthen the role of citizens and the responsibility of all of us as politicians, but at this point we are talking about the EU and strengthening its democratic legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33407	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33408	Thank you very much. Mr Podolnjak, you said in your presentation that you advocated reforms in the EU and that reforms should relate to greater involvement of citizens and that you want to do the same in Croatia. I would say it is good that we do not rely on MOST reforms in reforms within the EU because there would then be very little reform. So it's good to have real reforms and to be good for those who initiate these reforms to carry them out. So what I'm saying is, we must first ask ourselves what it is and where it is Croatia in relations within the EU. We do not need to agree to the EU first and second categories because Croatia still needs to achieve the development of developed EU countries, and on this side, if we want to build our identity, we need to go from ourselves. We do not have to leave all the sovereignty of the EU, and above all I mean the monetary union, we do not need to rush into it. First, we need to strengthen our economy and then take over the euro and on this side, as far as the trust of Croatian citizens in the EU is concerned, it will be greater if we in Croatia protect our interests and if we look at the interests of Croatia and Croatian citizens. And as for the reform, I said, we hope that they will not be implemented in the way that they are implemented in the EU in Croatia, which means that they are not implemented at all in Croatia. Unfortunately, we in Croatia are doing nothing about reform and very little has been proposed and adopted even less than what MOST announced in the campaign and on the other hand, I hope you will change, that you will enter into a higher speed. This is what I want, I want higher speed of MOST in Croatia, not speed, I would say individual EU members. So instead of the speed of EU member states first and second speeds, I would like a higher speed of MOST in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33409	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33410	Thank you, dear colleague, for returning to the link between reforms within the European Union and the Republic of Croatia. In a sense, you are right if we speak, for example, and strengthen the democratic legitimacy of institutions, then here's a good example. It should certainly be advocated to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of European institutions. We would like to be sure to reform the way in which the European Parliament is elected, so that citizens have a greater impact on the choice of MPs. As you know, there are certainly initiatives at European Parliament level in this regard. In Croatia, we also want to make this choice more quality in such a way that citizens have a greater choice of selecting their representatives, to democratisation it by strengthening the preferential vote we want to strengthen this particular segment. So we find links and do not behave differently when we advocate reforms in the Republic of Croatia and when we advocate them at European level. Equally and several elements of direct decision-making in any case. Also, here, if I can say a personal position that is not the position of the Most at this time, but when we speak, when you mentioned, for example, the introduction of the euro, I would always leave such a decision to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for a referendum. So I think it's a big, far-reaching decision and I personally think, I say in person, we haven't even been able to decide so quickly, we probably won't, but I would personally like such a large capital decision to leave monetary sovereignty to be decided in a referendum of all the citizens of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33411	Thank you. The distinguished representative Josko Klisovic will also replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you said at one point that you strongly opposed the reduction of the European budget and that it should actually be bigger so that the development of the Member States could be better encouraged. Now it's not clear to me exactly how you think it's going to happen in terms of when we're about to be 28, we're going to be 27 Member States because one big Member State is coming out. Regardless of its... or the return it had and which it managed to negotiate, but in what way you really see the EU budget to be increased and how Croatia should contribute to that budget, whether in some increased amount because I am not sure that our budget allows it, there is a prime minister, may tell us differently but here if you can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33413	The Honorable representative of Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33414	Thank you. Dear colleague Klisovic, but I don't know if you understand me well. Croatia today, given the degree of development, receives more and should receive more from the European budget than it contributes to. Therefore, there should be a Member State benefiting from the European budget, so in terms of funds from which it will draw funds for individual development projects. The fact is, if a large country, which is a large payer in the European budget, then the United Kingdom exits the EU so that unless there is an increase in the contribution of the remaining Member States, of course, that European budget would be lower. At this point, we know that there will be large and difficult discussions over the UK divorce account and talks about the amounts of up to 60 billion pounds or euros. That's when. What is very important, I think, would retain this possibility that Member States that are at a lower level of development, so below the EU average, still have the possibility to continue to maintain the level of solidarity of other Member States that they will receive significant funds from EU development funds in the future to make up for the difference that exists now in the degree of development. Of course, this should be debated in the future, but solidarity between Member States must be the basis of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33415	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33416	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, colleague Podolnjak pointed out one question which is all issues, which is the future of the EU, the confidence of EU citizens, and then the confidence of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the future of the EU, and precisely in the context of decisions taken to get the UK out of the EU. Well, about a month ago, I asked the prime minister a question here, we didn't get an answer, maybe you know something more, so I'll repeat the question, how will the EU get to the Republic of Croatia? Are we going to have to pay more European budgets, which is what you're pushing for to increase it? What's the segment of the economy that's going to suffer because we know that part of our economies are operating in the UK through London? Did the Republic of Croatia go into mapping these problems? In what way? I also proposed a meeting of all the resolution ministries responsible for the economy with the Economic Chamber of Commerce, the Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, to see how the Republic of Croatia will protect its economies because of the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU and especially in the segment of the implementation of the Common European Agricultural Policy, whether this fund to support the development of agriculture and rural development will be reduced because we know that more than 40% of the European Fund is intended for the implementation of the common European agricultural policy and how much Croatian agricultural producers will feel. We fear that without one conversation and activity in this direction, the Croatian public will not get the right information or prepare quality for these upcoming problems. So I propose a thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture, and we know that Mr. Romic is the president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, and I think it would be necessary under the urgent meeting to organise to protect domestic agricultural producers, to give them a new chance and perspective, to raise agricultural production. We see that the minister is also trying to increase agricultural production, and even here he pays out support to the Director of the paying agency to deal with agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33417	The distinguished representative of the Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33418	Thank you. It is logical for one Member State to leave the EU and stop paying its contribution to the EU budget if the budget is kept at the same level because of the cost of the project programmes made years in advance in this case each Member State would have to pay a greater amount in that budget. Croatia as a smaller Member State is certainly far less than some other Member States. The fact is that if we do not want to fall out for key funds that are important to reduce this gap in development, it would be necessary to increase the allocation of other larger Member States to the EU budget. But here's an example. I believe there are, that I can find the funds for that fever. If you're looking at the White Paper, it seems to me that it says that the EU is giving out big money to support undeveloped third-world countries. I think over 70 billion euros. There is therefore a high degree of solidarity towards countries outside the EU. This means if there is such a degree of solidarity that we can expect if we want a perspective in the future of the EU that there is this greater degree of solidarity and towards the less developed EU Member States. And a big debate on what this separation ratio will be in the future of the United Kingdom and how long it will be for it to go out, it will be a long and difficult financial debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33419	Thank you. The next one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33420	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Prime Minister, Minister, Secretary of State. First of all, I would say that it is very important that the prime minister, so aside from the formal meeting, means the European Council here and beyond what has been prescribed, informed us much more widely, informed us of the informal meetings that have taken place and that is very important to us. Here, let me also, on behalf of the club, express my satisfaction with the news that's come to us since 9 March. It is that on your initiative, the gentleman who was in Zagreb on the 25th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Tusk was elected President of the European Council. He has shown here as a guest that he understands the situation in the Republic of Croatia, he spoke in Croatian and we are pleased that there is someone at the head of the European Council who knows the situation in the Republic of Croatia. It is worth repeating that it is extremely important for the Croatian public to be actively involved in the debate on European topics. In this sense, this new reporting practice today confirms the success of intensifying the dialogue between the parliament and the government in the EU's focus. We want Croatia, which has capacities and opportunities, to be a successful member and role model for all other countries especially those in Southeast Europe and to continue to fight against populism and extremism. So we don't mind if someone disagrees with certain projects, but it's important not to manipulate information and that growth means information technologies that allow information to go faster so we don't use it to send misinformation. What was, so at this meeting are four main topics that are very important for the Republic of Croatia. It means the topic of jobs, growth and competitiveness, security, defence, migration and debate on the countries of Southeast Europe. So we're looking forward to the fact that after a few years of crisis, things are going better in the whole environment. And we should note what we are most pleased about is that Croatia is not lagging behind in this area. And I must say that our Prime Minister is here, that he has one more grateful role to report on what was at this meeting because these indicators say that Croatia exceeds expectations, gives us a lot of information that has been presented to us and above the EU average. Therefore, I would stress that the autumn forecast provides for GDP growth for 2017. 2.5 While now in the winter forecasts, the GDP commission predicts its growth of 3.1%. Also forecasts, meaning winter forecasts are growing for 2018. 2.5 versus 2.3 is what we had in the autumn forecasts. What we announced at the end of last year, and this here and the Commission confirms that this growth will not only be based on consumption but also on export growth. Compared to 10 new members, Croatia is again after 10 years, meaning in the upper part of the scale of expected economic growth. And we have to say, it's not only about what we're expected to do and what I keep stressing, it's about meeting those expectations. In 2016, we even took fourth place as regards expected economic growth. It is important that these trends continue to implement planned reforms and the government's programme. The fiscal consolidation measures also deliver results, and in 2016 we have a deficit reduction, meaning 1.8% of GDP, and after continuing to grow the share of the general government debt means it is reduced, so in 2015 we had 86.7% to reduce it to 84.1%, which means better than the EU average and than predicting the trend of public debt for Croatia. When we talk about migration, they are of course high on the list of priorities and of course they have their own internal and external dimension. What is important to us for the Republic of Croatia to respect the principle of accountability and solidarity and that all the challenges faced by the migration crisis and all the migrants at our borders mean that we will have one systematic approach to them in cooperation with all other EU Member States. What is highlighted is that the objective and that a consensus on EU asylum policy is reached during this Presidency, and as regards the external dimension of migration, it is important to continue engagement and co-operation with countries of origin and transit. It would very much highlight what was the most important topic, that other member states have awareness of the countries in Southeast Europe where there is a growing trend of instability, uncertainty, tension and external destabilising influence, which reflects overall regional stability and security, and should certainly say that this is a very important topic from Croatia's point of view. It is also important to continue reforms, good neighbourly relations and included initiatives for regional co-operation. At the same time, it is necessary to confirm the unambiguous support of the European perspective of all countries and the enlargement process. We therefore welcome the voiced support for BiH's efforts and I commend the prime minister here because he deserves the addition of a special part to this report, which states the progress of the Southeast European countries, says what they have done so far, the support has been confirmed, and there is a very large role in extending Croatia to these countries. Finally, I would like to say that the HDZ Club welcomes the presented report, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and that we support such a dialogue and we are pleased to have a much wider range of information on these reports and data even with these informal meetings in Valleta, Malta and Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33421	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33422	Thank you very much. You mentioned and pointed out the economic indicators, i.e. certain economic growth that placed us in the table above after many years as we struggled, starting in 2009, 2010 and a major economic downturn of over 10%, now went well and certain trends continued. Of course, the key reforms are also to try to do as much as we can to boost this economic growth. But what I am interested in, and the question is, for example, very important as a European topic for the HDZ Club of Representatives, what is the position on the issue of monetary union, whether the HDZ Representatives Club advocates faster entry into the monetary union of the Republic of Croatia or one more cautious, sovereignistic approach to see, first how our economy will develop, and only then to decide how and what we will do with this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33423	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33424	The HDZ advocates' club is definitely about running towards no unions, rather than doing basic analyses. And what is important and what you stressed is that this trend is happening in the Republic of Croatia and the environment is growing indicators, but what is a direct contribution to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to grow above expectations and to grow more than the EU average.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33425	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33426	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Roscic. We've been listening to the debate you've read. It mentions that we should see as a success the fact that Croatia has managed to reduce the budget deficit. But what is the point, is the deficit reduction a success or failure? In essence, the deficit should be increased because the deficit would increase more GDP growth than we have now. Not a problem in reducing or increasing deficits but a problem in how to finance deficits. If my deficit was financed as much as the Czech People's Bank or if you wanted to in the United States or in some countries in Russia, then the deficit could be far greater and, in fact, GDP growth would be far greater. But the problem is that we finance the deficit with constant external borrowing and if we keep in debt to finance the deficit, then it's not a good deficit, not even 0.1%, let alone 1.8. And you would simply have to respect the fact that there is no budget surplus anywhere in the world means there is no state that plans to budget at one amount, and then achieves five times as much revenue as she planned. So the deficit is necessary, it has to exist, and the only question is how the deficit is financed, not how much the deficit is. The deficit can basically be up to 9% of the state budget but if financed by the primary emissions of the CNB, which, of course, we do not have the possibility in Croatia precisely because of EU policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33427	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33428	If your criticism is that growth is based on production and export, and you think it should be based on the deficit, I accept that criticism and I will be happy to hear it, that simple growth during this government will not be based on the deficit but on production, deficit and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33429	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the HNS-HSU on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33430	... Government, Madam Secretary of State, you're the secretary of state, assistant, pardon, co-workers and colleagues. So, as we have already concluded last time, it is certainly good to have such reports in the House, and it is good to have such discussions, or at least it is good to have a discussion. It may also be seen from this debate that it would be more important, more detailed and on certain topics, perhaps by committees to organise thematic discussions because the debate shows that even some basic things about the EU are not entirely known to the members of the Assembly, so these are for each member, especially for Croatia, which is not only a new member but also a small, unusually important thing because they have a much more direct impact on us than it may seem at first sight. But several topics opened by the prime minister in his report and several suggestions related to these topics. First, as we heard, Croatia supported Donald Tusk's election as President of the European Council despite the fact that Poland was the only country against it. I think it's good, and I think it's consistent with what Donald Tusk has shown at the head of the European Council. Among other things and on..., so on this as it is said informally, but it is actually very common, it is just, it is official as an informal meeting but a very common and regular meeting of members, representatives of the EU. At a regular meeting of the European Council, among other things, there are 5 EU development strategies. I warn not of five EU speeds but five EU development strategies, one of which is Europe's different speeds. In other words, within the EU, individual Member States have a higher degree of integration and common legislation and rules than other Member States. I did not quite understand what the Prime Minister said in this regard but I will say very clearly by the basis of my thinking and analysis of these proposed strategies, and also by the basis of the fact that Europe has spoken a lot of things here, which is that it is somewhat loss of support for the citizens of the Member States or that it is probably the best idea since World War II and before, of course, the Second World War Europe has had, and that is the European Community, and the European Union has somehow become a victim of its own success. In fact, the European Union has succeeded in two things that you have drawn up, one is to prevent a war between Member States in Europe since World War II on here, so to ensure among the Member States long-term, perhaps the longest peace in history and the other is economic prosperity. Today, when almost all the people who remember and the different times in the laws of biology are dead, it has in some way become some sort of something taken or the results taken as per themselves understood. I think it should never be forgotten that this result is not in itself understood he is a defacto result of the existence of the European Union and of the active effort of both the leaders and the members of the European Union. And one of the elements that may be the problem of the European Union today is the fact of reregulation. I think it would be devastating for Croatia to promote Europe's idea more speed. This is contrary to the fundamental European idea and leads in my opinion to an absolutely relatively rapid EU breakdown. However, between those proposed strategies, what would be possible is to define a Europe that comes down to a smaller number of areas that regulates and standardises for all members but within those areas, then stick to common standards and common policies. For example, different absurd rules related to both the common agricultural policy and other elements, especially as regards EU trials, may be excessive. But there are certain elements that are surely common and which need to be and can be insisted on. This is primarily a common market and economy in this sense used by this common market, energy policy, something which is at this moment with the northern course and the neglect of TAP and IAP, which is unusually important and interesting to us, so this direction from Albania on our part, the Adriatic is already at risk and very important and interesting for us at this point. The third is security, so common security and defence policy. The changes at the US Summit and the statements we heard, regardless of what is being restored, have shown how important it would be for Europe to strengthen its common security and defence policy. And the third large group is fundamental human rights. So define what are fundamental and fundamental human rights and make it common to all Member States. So that every country can regulate a higher level and greater protection of human rights than what is common but cannot go below it. Additional areas are probably science that is... Europe, the minimum actually for the field of science is the world, the context but Europe is the minimum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Transport or conetivity or integration within the EU and standards in environmental and health protection, although under the Paris Agreement, of course, this is also a broader issue than the EU itself. So, if you have to choose between the scenarios for Croatia, surely the option is not Europe more speed, but Europe is a smaller area of regulation. Therefore, to reduce the number of areas in which the EU is setting out its regulatory, but also those areas on which an agreement and agreement is reached. Stick to common policies and stick to common standards. It is certainly a topic that will be discussed many this year and many at different EU levels. And it would absolutely be necessary to discuss it in Croatia as well. We may have different opinions, but it would be necessary to formulate that policy by arguing our views and considering what is most rational in our position. Croatia is a new and small member but with a clear and well-founded position it can have an impact. This has proved to be an example of a change in EU policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if you prepare your position well, you can have influence in this context. There are currently a whole series of issues ahead of the EU that we haven't talked about and will need a position. One is Brexit, so the UK's coming out. What's gonna happen here? There are a whole series of proposals to absolutely end any communication on the common market and the participation of Great Britain in the common market or any common policies until let's say what I know of the proposal of the main negotiator by the European Parliament, Verhofstadt, that the citizens of Great Britain can individually choose to retain their European identity. In other words, to retain a certain right of European citizenship. It's a wide range of possibilities. Croatia must also have a position on this, a position and it is certainly something that is relevant to us. I think we should discuss this. Relations with the United States on the one hand, relations with the Russian Federation on the other hand, meanwhile the whole thing has changed dramatically. As you know, the entire debate on the South Stream that the note was not in our best interests and our IAP is in much greater interest. But regardless, the whole debate on the South Stream of energy, so gas ended up not going into the project. As the entire debate on the northern course ended, it went into the project. This translates into the coming of Russian gas further from that direction, so through the transferzal to Europe. The result in the first order of special relations between Germany and the Russian Federation. These are topics that are important to us. So, does the EU have an energy policy in which Croatia is not negligible first because of its geopolitical position and second because of its findings because it is not true that Croatia is poor. It's right the other way around. And the geopolitical position gives her extra importance. And there we have already missed many things and therefore this debate is also something that is particularly relevant to us and I think we should open a debate about it. Turkey. The situation with Turkey as you can see is dramatic. You know when immigration started across the European route, across the Western European route to Europe from Turkey, none of the refugees coming across that route came directly from Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan. They all came from Turkey. So before that, they were all refugees in Turkey, some months, some years. At this point, I hope it is for the needs of the Turkish referendum and the Dutch elections. But if he's not at this hour, that situation is extremely dangerous. And these disputes that seem to us far away between Germany and Turkey and the Netherlands and Turkey can easily result in a wave of refugees. That's also what we need to talk about. This wave of refugees concerns us very directly because one route is this one. So how this will end, how this will eventually calm down after the Turkish referendum, there must be some plan and probably some ideas within the EU but also us. Finally, it's a matter of solidarity. Much has been said here about how it is necessary for the EU to be solidarity. I remind you that means not only that we can take, but what we can give. So, what Croatia can contribute to the EU, and one thing Croatia can and should contribute to the EU is an active and positive role in stabilising this part of Europe, Southeast Europe and the Western Balkans, whatever you want to call it, that is something we can contribute to and that is European business. But for that we must have an articulated, clear, common policy, not only on one side of a good wish, but on the other hand, nothing or I would say conflicting moves. To do so, we must be an example to these countries, and we must be an example of a kind of leader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33431	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33432	Thank you very much. Mrs Pusic, in her presentation, you said in my opinion that a small state can if it knows how to do business in the EU to translate its position into a common European position. You gave us one example, an example of how it was done in the Kukuriku government around BiH. Indeed, the position created by the foreign ministry supported by the government was then supported by the first two large EU members Germany and the UK to form a common position, a common EU based on what Croatia has proposed. And we can say that one great success is Croatia's foreign policy. And today, very often, it is said that Croatia did not have a policy towards BiH but is only now beginning to have some indications of that policy. Well, here, please, maybe a little bit about that. And I think that this example of you and the answer that a small country can also influence EU policy as one major association is the best answer to those quasi sovereigns in this Assembly that mention Croatia as far as the eye goes from the cathedral or who want to have a monument in the hall. I definitely don't want it, I don't want a monument, I want a better life in this country for myself, my children and all of us living in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33433	Thank you. The honourable representative Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Klisovic. So I'm going to use this to say that I think this kind of political competition is whether the state existed, whether politics existed before this government or before that government was basically harmful. Some things have no government that has done any good and no government that has done some things wrong, and in my opinion, it would be the smartest if we could be able to, whether we're politically on the same side or not, take over and admit the things that were right and build on them further. It speaks more of the mind of one government than of any other self - thanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33435	Thank you. Now the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will take his word. Here you go, Mr. Andrej Plenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33436	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I took the floor now because I have one obligation at 6:30 and I won't be able to be at the end of the debate, and I realized I wouldn't even be back in time since there are only a few individual discussions prepared. A little résumé. Firstly, I think that we have shown once again how well it is to talk about European topics and on a regular basis, this has now de facto become a practice every two, two and a half months, which I think will, over the years ahead, also feel about the content of the sophistication of the arguments and of the guidelines that the Croatian Parliament gives to the Government on the occasion of articulating our position on the European Council, but also in the context of other Council formats. What is important today is the messages that we send to the Croatian public, which we send to our partners that we bring in some way and articulate in the preparation of the summit in Rome. One we need to find a new cohesion narrative of the European project, that's the main task, that's what I've said in the last few months, I've felt this lack of time. It is not easy to find new ideas and new topics at the moment one member comes out. Negotiations with the UK will last for years, tactics on how these negotiations will go, whether they will be in the package or we will be separated first, and then see what are the elements and forms of contractual or institutional relations between the UK and the 27 EU member states at this point are not yet clarified even at internal negotiating activities when it comes to EU bodies. What is important is that this change is less felt by European citizens on UK territory, whether UK citizens in EU member states. This fine distinction of their rights under changed circumstances must be treated very carefully, and we will also take into account the protection of the interests of Croatian citizens, although according to all the analyses of the Croatian Member States that will least feel the consequences of UK exiting the EU. Another issue that is extremely important to Rome in my court is the message that the EU must respond as a relevant, competent but capable global act at the moment. This can only be done by taking a unique position on a number of burning global issues and using a whole range of instruments that we have available, foreign policy, trade, economic, financial, development, defence, energy, intelligence, all of these are elements that, if we put on the pile, we can have a stronger impact than the key other global players. This is also now being imposed in the context of strengthening our autonomous defence and security capabilities. Croatia must make its contribution, although we are a country that is very careful to take care of the full complementarity of NATO and the EU. When it comes to European solidarity, about social Europe, about everything our citizens want most, then I think we need to contribute to formulating and these policies in a way that feels this principle of solidarity and through European policies at national level. And common policies, so inevitably and through Europe more speeds, I was talking about it, so the Eurozone and Schengen are the most visible, there are a number of other smaller forms of enhanced cooperation in which, as a state, we need to make decisions on whether to participate in any of these cooperations. These are topics for parliamentary committees, these are topics for expert discussion and inclusion. Some of these forms of cooperation were created before our membership, almost none of which occurred before Croatia decided to participate. Some that have been formed now since we've been a member we've joined. So we have a completely different sense of identity with what's being created in our time to say it in relation to what's inherited, which is also a natural reflection of identification. And on that trail, we need to see these five Juncker scenarios. Sure that business as before can no longer pass, surely at this point make a lot more all together and pretend like some events have not happened is not real either. So we will go between the second, third and fourth scenarios, to me the most between the third and fourth scenarios, because it is very clear on this very trail that the argyculated opinion of most influential, important Member States and our position is Europe, no more speed should be left by less and medium-sized Member States on the edge of the construction of the European project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33437	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33438	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, in this presentation of yours, you mentioned that we should find a cohesion narrative in the EU, so I absolutely agree with you. And I agree with this thesis with which you have concluded that it is certainly not a fast Europe anymore, meaning especially from our perspective because I believe that, as you previously said to make these countries that are in so-called. It lowers the speed to those countries that have gone to the EU and the Member States that have joined the last 15 years or Croatia that joined in 2013 would not certainly be happy in that position in some way, that is, our citizens would not see the perspective because they are already seeing a lot of shortcomings, I would say in certain situations. Unfortunately, it is always easier to see bad things than the good things of the EU. And we must find essentially what will stimulate our citizens to see as many good things as possible of the EU. As for this, if I were to watch how to maintain certain diversity before I would define myself then for, for example, I said, monetary independence of Croatia, so I would not rush into a monetary union, I would look at it in some way to retain the benefits and the possibility that we do not have and priorities imposed by the European Central Bank. So this is something where Croatia could build a certain diversity from some other EU countries and protect its sovereignty and I would say try to keep certain instruments in its hands and try to explain to the citizens that we can have a higher level of independence than we would possibly have if we entered the monetary union. So I am absolutely against the EU's multispeed but I want Croatia to retain some elements of its independence in its hands for the future because I think our citizens will thus feel that they have more independence than they possibly have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33439	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, you have now given us in the final word the outline of your thinking on these alternatives offered by Juncker for the future of the EU. Here I am still calling on you to discuss this together and reach a consensus on the Croatian position that will be held in the EU not only because you and this government will now stand out but also to create a common platform for all future governments. So in one way, it is politically binding on us, except that we are bound by the Croatian citizens' referendum decision to want Croatia in the EU. So I'm saying this because of a continuity of Croatian politics that will be much tighter in this area if we talk about it together. The second thing, when you mentioned the cooperation between our Europarliamentaries and the Government, especially the government in which I was Deputy Minister and Minister, you had certain objections, but you know very well that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we organized jobs in such a way that we had a specific contact of a person as... for our europarliamentaries just in time and in the best way to give all the information needed for their work. And we wanted to turn them on as much as possible because we know they're doing a good job for Croatia up in Brussels, just like the government does. Therefore, I don't think there are any criticisms that the government shut down the Kukuriku coalition and refused to co-operate with our euro deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33441	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33442	Thank you very much. I'd just like to make it clear that they're here, I don't know if we have different attitudes or not, but just in case. So Europe's more speed as we have today is different from what is proposed here. Europe is more of the speed we have today is the fact that there is Schengen, some countries are in Schengen, some are not. There is a Monetary Union, some countries are member states, some are not. However, all Member States have a number of conditions to meet and then they can become and then become any part of the Schengen area of any member of the Monetary Union. As Europe now sees different speeds, it is not, it does not predict this kind of mobility. It simply predicts that there are different levels of integration intensity that are permanent. And I think it would be devastating if it were actually the opposite of the European idea without talking about how much it decrusts the new Member States, i.e. the EU's enlargement to Southeast Europe. Because frankly I am a great advocate of this kind of one, in my opinion, of truly human and peaceful ideas. I wouldn't want us to be a member of the second order.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33443	Thank you. The Honorable Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33444	Here's how united really for the sake of time, not for lack of respect for your comments. On the contrary, I agree that the story of Europe is more rapid or enhanced co-operation and different forms of integration may be reduced to a little more detailed discussion. So there are several areas where Member States have developed close cooperation, I have already said tax, financial transactions, patent, property and legal regimes of mates, defence domains, security, etc. And we can see where Croatia has full consensual support to join. But it may be a predetermined topic for this debate in the Croatian Parliament. However, the fruit of these discussions is obvious to be useful for both the Croatian Parliament and the Government, as well as for the public to talk about this. I think today's debate and all that you said in your presentations, what I've reported in writing and oral terms, and you'll see after Rome when the declaration is announced. She won't be anything spectacular. The draft that exists today is very correct and in some way inclusive with all the important topics but with an emphasis on the future and with this element of more rapid Europe as something we need to take care of. My firm belief is both personal and as Prime Minister and party chief, this concept must be inclusive. Because it was not necessarily intended to be inclusive in the thinking of all members and to allow everyone to join in with the intensities, intentions, projects of closer integration. Only in this way will we ensure that two categories of countries or three depending on how these dynamics will go and thus ensure the unity of the European project. This is also crucial from the aspect of Croatia because of the understanding and because of the democraticly active participation of our people, the legitimacy and in the far line of concrete benefits for Croatian citizens. It is, in my opinion, a platform on which we should look for a consensus of all key actors in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33445	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. We'll say hello to the Prime Minister. And the first individual debate was reported by distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to cut my debate out as much as possible because she was most of it would make sense if the prime minister was here, because my questions that I was going to ask in the debate would actually be asked to him, so in this case, I'm going to make it important to cut it short. I'm just curious about a few things, and I think that's what my colleagues can answer. One reported that Croatia was one of the 17 Member States that sent a letter concerning the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Since the European Public Prosecutor is conceived as an institution to respond to increased corruption in the EU, and especially the one related to the use of European money, i.e. EU funds, I do not know and cannot recognise from this report exactly what this is about. Well, if you can tell me that. And the other thing I was going to raise is the issue of that statement that was sent from the Foreign Ministry in addition to the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council that put us in line for the truly extremely conservative EU countries and was more conservative than the statements sent by Poland and Hungary. And what I was going to suggest to the Prime Minister that that statement be withdrawn. Now that he's gone, I'd like to send that message to the government and the prime minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33447	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33448	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here it is. We heard a report from the Prime Minister on the participation of the European Council. We are in one very important year, 2017. For our continent, we have a choice in the Netherlands today. At 9:00, polls close, then spring in France and early autumn and Germany. We heard the same about topics on the European Council, jobs, competitiveness growth, migration security, the Western Balkans, the rest. Why would I bring that up? Because I took a look at my private archive and found a speech by Mr Prodi, who was President of the European Commission in early 2000. He gave a speech in the beginning of 2000 in Strasbourg and spoke about the work of his Commission and his view of the future of the EU and the continent. In his speech, he also spoke about a new Europe and talked about four important things, about growth, about security, about the importance of the European Union for citizens and about the EU's global role. Why would I bring that up? Because these are the same topics that we have today and that we had the other day on the European Council in La Valleta, Malta. So the topics are the same. I've read the whole speech and the European Commission's program, it's about skepticism. It speaks of people not believing in the EU. And we have that today. What do I mean by that? That's my first thesis. Skepticism, a skepticism when it comes to the EU, has always existed in the European Community since the beginning of the European Community, the European Union later, there is skepticism, mistrust towards the EU. In the end, we have also established the European Parliament and had the first free elections of the 1970s to increase the acceptability of institutions for European citizens. So the first one has always been a crisis if you want an EU institution, we have this crisis today, and the same topics are either very, very similar, means growth, security, the meaning of the EU to all of us who are EU citizens and the clearly global role of the EU. First thesis. Second thesis. When we look at it, why is that skepticism stronger today? Because we have some global players who have become stronger in the meantime. China, 17 years ago China was something else. Russia was in ruins in some way. Turkey was not a factor today. Today, these countries are stronger, they play a stronger role in world politics, and these countries' interests are also reflected in their activities in our continent, so China has its interests there, it has interests and Russia, it has interests and Turkey, which is why this skepticism is deepened, and these countries act on their diplomacys, their economies on our economy, on our societies, on the whole of the EU. Now that we look at the third thesis, why this skepticism deepened, we have three major crises in particular. We're having a financial crisis, we're having a migration crisis, and we're having a crisis with Brexit. Two crises are exogenous crises, so the French crisis came from the United States, it's not homemade crisis. The second crisis, the migration crisis, again the crisis that was imposed on us from the Middle East. And the third one, Brexit, is now in a kind of internal crisis because it is a member state, but Brexit has happened precisely because of the financial crisis largely and because of the migration crisis because the argument of the migration crisis was used in the campaign of those who were to get the UK out of the EU. And now we come to the fourth thesis, looking at the history of European integration, the history of the European Community, the European Union, yet this crisis or these crises, this skepticism, this permanent crisis will strengthen us in the long run. We see, I don't know who mentioned it, Mrs Pusic is no longer there Turkey, Turkey is stronger, she is attacking the Netherlands and Germany, I mean President Erdogan for a referendum in Turkey on changing the political system, so it is said that the Germans are Nazis, the Dutch are fascists or I don't know the descendants of fascists. Speaking of which, the Serbian neighbours are doing so, and they're attacking us that we're fascists, but it's about impotence, it says more about Turkey's impotence than Turkey's strength at the moment. Because there is nothing to change because, because of their campaign in the Netherlands, a decision has been made not to allow some people to perform in the Netherlands in order to propagate Mr. President Erdogan's views. So this crisis will ultimately strengthen the EU, the EU is a factor, and I remember one word when in Berlin Mr. Schultz's former state secrets prized the United States of America then gave a speech honorary Mr. Schauble Minister of Finance five years ago, he said to Schauble this way you know what the difference was 30 years ago, 40 years ago you Americans were just talking like this, we have a dollar and that's your problem, today we say we have the euro and that's your problem. So things change after all. Regardless of the problems that exist the EU is a factor, it does not function in the best possible way, it is a factor and there are these attempts to weaken it. And now we come to the fifth thesis concerning what is most important to us in Croatia. We here in Croatia need to start a real debate about what we want. We're dealing with it, and I don't know if there's gonna be any more speed. Don't get me wrong, it's funny to me. More speed was from the beginning. There are always countries that are bigger, which are stronger and that give us a pace and we need to be aware of it, that's how it works, and that's how it works in Croatia's domestic policy. So is the EU. Now, Mr. Tusk has been elected, Poland has been against, they've been voted. It is a reality, but there is a basic mechanism of solidarity and respect and smaller countries, those that are not as large as Germany, France, Italy, etc. Therefore, in Croatia, we need the right to debate what we want the EU to be, what it must be for us Croats, and now we need to change the way we think and do it. I read a detailed report signed by the Prime Minister on our participation in Malta, we give our Croatian proposals when it comes to the future of the EU and this is the right way, I repeat, it is important to include the entire society, to debate how Croatia can and must act in the EU, to hear few Croatian citizens and all Croatian political parties represented in the Croatian Parliament. It has been shown that what does not kill you strengthen you, regardless of all the problems the EU has, regardless of... crisis, I am not a Eurofil, I am a realist, it has proved, it has survived anyway, that it is a factor for us Croats too, and it is important for us all in Croatia to define very clearly what we want first and how we can achieve what we want in these complex complex times. So much for me. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33449	Thank you. There are also several replicas on your exhibit. First, he is a respected representative of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Kovac, in his statement, you said that the EU institutions are in crisis. But I think that this is one negative way of looking at international organisations in this EU case. They are not in crisis, they are in a constant process of transformation and reform. And why is that? Because the world is not static but dynamic and circumstances in which they function change from day to day. If you have a finely respected EU institutions at one point and then you get slapped by a migrant crisis you don't have an answer for because you're not a prerequisite, then of course you'll say that the institutions are in crisis. And I'd say they're not in crisis, but they just have to adapt quickly in a new situation. It's the same with the financial crisis you said with the right to be imported from America. I mean it's a global financial crisis and now we're going to tell the EU institutions are in crisis, they're not up to it. So they couldn't even fit it when they didn't assume that it could happen this way as well as the fall of the East Block and the Berlin Wall couldn't have been as easy and easy to predict. It is therefore seen that this is about the need for a permanent transformation of every international organisation, a permanent reform, a dynamic process that is not static and cannot be static because you will never have the ideal institutions of any international organisation, whether national. And therefore, speaking of the institutional crisis, we all say together that nothing is right, everything needs to be done again. We will never be able to create a perfect system because the circumstances in which the system functions are variable and change from day to day. So what I think is that we should invest all our intellectual capital in a quick detection of changes in your eco-system and adapt institutions to function better under new circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33451	The esteemed representative Kovac will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33452	Thank you. I will be concise, we have a crisis of institutions, so Mr. Juncker and publish a white book with suggestions on how to reform the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33453	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33454	Thank you, Your Honor. My criticism will not be against Mr Kovac, MPs, colleagues, but against one of his opinions that the financial crisis in the EU is an exogenous nature, that it has come to us from outside. However, he forgets that the Mastritshim Treaty, across the EU, prohibits Member States from financing directly, means their deficits, deficits from the European Central Bank, or from their central banks. In other words, instead of the Member States’ central banks directly financing Member States between them, let's say mounted, installed private banks that borrow money from these central banks for small interest and then lend them to large banks. In other words, a system of interest-making of EU Member States was created for money from their central banks, i.e. the European Central Bank, all orchestrated by private banks. In such a financial system, not only are the interest large, the interest itself is invaluable. Why? Because money for interest payments doesn't exist. So in the EU, money is broadcast exclusively as a debt. Borrowing and non-creditary giving of money to governments by central banks is prohibited and as a result we have galloping government debts. I don't suppose there's a single EU country that, except maybe Sweden, I don't know that someone doesn't catch me by a word that the sovereign debt doesn't grow. So the government debt is growing everywhere, the interest money doesn't exist, the banks are issuing private only capitals and loans, they have to come back increased for interest. And so long it sinks the country around the country and then it's the result of the austerity measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33455	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33456	Thank you very much. I'm going to lend my esteemed colleague Pernar some literature, I have it at home, about how the French crisis in the U.S. with these bad loans that could have been given to banks that were present on the American market, and then we can deepen the discussion afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33457	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33458	Thank you very much. Mr Kovac, I will also refer to your thesis that in the EU the three crises have de facto contributed to certain situations, i.e. deepening and the economic crisis found in the EU in both security and migration, etc. First, yes, the economic crisis started in the United States but the fact that it had no basis for the so-called economic crisis. The backdrop in the bad ones, I'd say to the banks primarily the Great Britain and the European banks. How come they felt less the crisis of other major economies globally such as Japan or what, I don't know, rapidly growing economies like China and some others? Because of what is similar, I would say the banking system and the value system are also valid in European banks, primarily I think of large British banks. And on the other hand, in Europe, we helped with the wrong austerity policy that has been going on for the last 5, 6 years, and thank God that in the end, they realized in that European Central Bank, and that the governor dearly changed his policy for the past two years. On the other hand, around Syria, or the Middle East where the security threat and the major migration waves that are now clapping the EU and African of course, I think that the EU also participated in a lot of foreign policy and the crisis in Syria and about certain other crisis-related problems, and that we did not have the best as the EU estimates three and four years ago that the situation would be developing there. And third, you said Brexit was the result of these migrations. I think Brexit is the most impact and impact on the citizens of Great Britain, migration within the EU. See just how many, for example, people in Poland went to Great Britain and there when you talk to people you see that they feel that inside the EU were stolen under quotes certain jobs in the UK and that this has contributed greatly to their decision to exit the EU. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33459	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33460	Thank you. I'm glad that the issues we've launched are being discussed, it's a good sign, so we have an interparty dialogue. That's very nice. As far as banks are concerned, you're right. The European banks participated in these operations in the United States, but in the United States it was allowed to give these loans, so the fundamental responsibility is on the American system. Clearly, the European banks were particularly French, German, both in these operations on the US market. About Syria, I am here to say that the EU has largely failed. It is the biggest donor when it comes to humanitarian aid, but it is not sufficiently visible in our public and in Croatia and elsewhere. The EU should indeed be more effective on this plan, too, but there is a large responsibility in the first place in large countries that do not want to give up their sovereignty in the area of foreign defence policy. I think that we Croats here are much more flexible, and when it comes to the British in particular they were very strict against it, but there are not much better neither Germans, nor French in the field of foreign, defence policy needed a step and those countries were against, so far they were not for. It could change, they weren't there to share more sovereignty. We could work there on the spot to help people with centers, with safety zones. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And the third thing about the United Kingdom, which is exactly the internal immigration, has also contributed to the campaign of those who were for Brexit. But believe me, I've talked to a lot of people, I've followed this and this about Syria, about the refugee crisis, the migration crisis a lot... People were for the exit of Great Britain from the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33461	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33462	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kovac. I would also like to look back on your thesis that the crisis in Croatia is imported. You specifically mentioned the Middle East. The crisis can only be imported to Croatia because it does not have its foreign policy. We see that Croatia has no foreign policy either towards Russia or its neighbours or towards the United States, so neither does it towards the Middle East. In fact, we have to do what the EU tells us, and the point is that the peoples of the Middle East were never, in particular, hostile to us. If they wanted, they could have taken Hayan from us in Syria, owned by the INA, and they didn't. Although the Russians wanted to buy that field twice, they said no matter what the Croatian government was leading policy against us, we will preserve and return their property to them. So that policy, that crisis Syrian in fact that was imported from us, is artificially created. Syria and Croatia are not enemies. In fact, it is about Croatia leading its own foreign policy so that this crisis would never occur, nor would Croatia have the obligation to receive Syrian refugees at all, given that some independent foreign policy would not have to participate in this work. I'd like to ask you as former foreign minister do you know that this week, the Russians have begun the technical takeover of our Hayan field in Syria. And is it possible that the government in which you are a member of the ruling coalition is taking steps to include Croatia in the repair activities, taking over the Hajan field in Syria, which is still waiting for us to take over from the host's generosity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33463	The answer to the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33464	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bunjac, as far as Syria and Croatia are concerned, I can say that Croatia has contributed with its policy to closing the so-called The Balkan route. We closed the Balkan route with colleagues in Austria, Slovenia, Serbia. It wasn't everyone's will. Some of our larger partners were not specifically Germans to close the Balkan route, but later thanked us informally that we helped close the route and thus significantly reduced the inflow of migrants on the European continent. So Croatia has helped solve the migrant crisis and close the Balkan route with its stance. It has done so clearly as an EU member state and taking care of its concrete Croatian interests, ultimately and in the past government, as you know, we have amended the Law on the Control of the State Border and it is now possible that the Croatian Army is helping the Croatian police in special cases to protect the Croatian state border. As for Russia and as far as Syria is concerned, I can tell you, and you follow that Croatia in the area of foreign policy is getting better and better, that Croatia is emancipated. That's my impression. And with colleagues in Russia, we opened a dialogue, and talks were held at the level of the President of the Republic and Foreign Minister with colleagues in Russia. We already did so in the past government when we spoke with Mr Lavrov, and there were recently consultations between Croatia and Russia. Therefore, we take care of our interests. We are part of the Western world, but we have open eyes, open ears and we follow what is happening in the world and we take care of our interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33465	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the honourable representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33466	Thank you, Your Honor. Today we witness a sad moment because the person who came here to explain his plan or to inform us about his trip to Brussels, she is not here today. The question is whether this person means Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's intention in this debate at all or whether he will simply be there to see an empty chair, the question is whether he will even show up in the end. He probably will, maybe he'll give some of his final opus. However, he is not interested in this debate at all. It's one relationship that in that movie when Schwarzenegger says "Talk to the hand" he speaks by hand and now I can talk here I want to talk to him, he's gone. And I wonder what's the point of my speech? Whether I speak in the wall, if I speak in my hand, it's likely that ignoring it is generally the way he communicates with reality. And here's why. Well, one of the important things is certainly the real situation in Croatia. For example, today, I was at a session in the River of Ms. Nevenka Licul and at that operation two nights before that I spoke to this woman and warned her of the possibility of threatening her fines if she stood up to her actions, to threaten her possible and secret mirage, that the cost of police intervention would try to charge her, etc., etc. And at that moment, the ladies had tears in their eyes, so the lady was deeply shaken. I asked her, ma'am, are you ready despite everything I warned you about, are you ready to stand up and then it's at the address of Ratko Petrovic 16 in Rijeka, and she told me Ivane I no longer have anything to lose. And now the question is, why are so many young people coming out of the country, why are more and more people in a situation like it, that after losing a roof over their heads, they have nothing left to lose? In other words, I would like our prime minister instead of briefing us about the state or talks with the euro bureaucrats in Brussels, if, unlike such meetings, he would go among the citizens as well. as Mrs. Nevenka Licul, looked into her eyes, because of the two thousand kuna debt for directors or housing, and she had this debt because she had lost her job, and it is known which party led to the disappearance of jobs, not only in Rijeka but in general in Croatia, this person is the victim of this one policy and what most interesting Prime Minister Plenkovic was saying that he would protect the only real estate in which the citizens live from the exercise. And now imagine the one who accuses me of populistism, of demagogy, he's the one who's a populist, but the dishonest populist, a populist who'll tell people before the election I'll protect you from dejection. For example, SDP had an honest attitude here, Zoran Milanovic said we will not protect the only real estate from the performance, the raids are moving on. However, unlike Zoran Milanovic, Andrej Plenkovic has demagoguely said it inexplicably populistly, we will protect her, and then people like Ms. Nevenka Licul left her hanging. And in all the false glow he lives in, traveling around the world with a diplomatic passport as in a special mission protected, with all the rights possible and eating in the most expensive restaurants and staying in the most expensive hotels, our prime minister doesn't really know that the citizens of Croatia don't care what he's talking about in Brussels with bureaucrats, because he doesn't actually decide as much as our Euro-representers who are only 11 and make up less than 1% of the total number of representatives, or I don't know 2%. And what's going on? What happens is that voters are interested in real life, they are interested in whether Prime Minister Plenkovic is headed for their life problems and whether he is going to solve them. I, to this day of all his address to us in the Parliament, have not noticed that he once said, have compassion for the citizens whose water has been unbuttoned. Water is a fundamental human right shouldn't be dug up. I didn't notice that he came and said, I'm sorry about the people who sleep on the trams, I'm sorry that my government can't solve the problem, let's say the people who collect the bottles, who dig in the trash, who wait in front of the soup kitchens. And I'd like him to say instead of in Brussels go to some bus station to look at the columns of young people leaving our country and then bring us a report to tell us what's going on there and ask us how to stop it. But instead of stopping our country's collapse, instead of stopping this destructive policy being implemented, it continues with voter support. And Mr. Plenkovic is the most popular politician, and the country rolls downhill, every day we're closer to the edge of the sink. In fact, I would dare say one dangerous thesis, we as a society in the demographic sense, have crossed the edge of the sink. The very fact that the birth rate is below every sustainable level, we, along with those negative, that is, at this low birth rate that is insufficient for the very maintenance of our people and our country, also have a massive and rapid eviction of young people, families with children and families who will only have children. Is anyone aware that our people are being threatened by extinction? So missing from these spaces over a period of, say, 30, 50 years. That we as a people will be replaced by other peoples and that Croatia will cease to be the country in which the Croatian people live. These are the trends ahead of us. And the policy of this government, unfortunately, is directed against not only the Croatian peoples but also all the other peoples who live in our country because neither the other minorities can achieve a happy family and a beautiful future in our country. Both Serbs and Czechs and Albanians are moving, so my colleague Bunjac tells me, even Roma are moving to Međimurje from Croatia. So there's a collapse, a collapse in the demographic sense of our society. Our government has not taken any action to stop it. And about the reforms that she is doing and advocates, I don't even know what the meaning of these reforms is, and does a young man who decided to leave the country when he heard or saw those reforms decide to stop, go back? Or is it a family that, for example, because of the financial situation, doesn't dare have a child after she's heard of your reforms, HDZ, that she said, those reforms in me are hope, I'm going to have children now. Although my conversation, or speech at the moment, seems to be a political bickering, I have told the most honest, all the facts I would warn my own people of his future if nothing changes. My speech unfortunately, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not hear or care. Even though we're here today discussing his report. In fact, he said everything about how much he respected me as an advocate and the words I gave him and he's not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33467	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I have consciously allowed you to speak outside the subject for 10 minutes, and I have allowed you to do so simply because you would probably, in your custom, like to re-emerge some excess, cause some kind of situation, etc...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33468	Please don't argue with me, Mr. Rainer. Sit on the bench and replicate my speech. You can't interpret my words, you have no right. Just move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33469	You're everything, everything you said was out of the question. You have no right to answer to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33470	.../Intruder Pernar: Take that right from me, Mr. Rainer. Get me out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33471	I'm taking your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33472	I'll keep talking and it's enough of yours...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33473	I take away your word to this day...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33474	Mr. Reiner, stop fighting with me and continue to hold a session normally./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33475	I can't fight with you because you can't fight with me. Let's finally read the Rules of Procedure once and start sticking to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33476	Mr. Reiner, stop commenting on the representative's statements and throw them away. If you were in the European Parliament, you could see that the chairman there is not a doctor, he is not throwing away, he is not suggesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33477	Comrade Pernar, they're totally cheap these stunts of yours you're doing here, and they've all read you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33478	Mr. Rainer, the truth bothers you, and that's why you're harassing me with your incursions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33479	The next replica of this exhibition, which was the same as it was, will be the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33480	Thank you very much. Just the first question, did you take away the word until the end of the point to Mr. Pernar because he won't be able to answer me then, I don't know if it makes any sense to replicate at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33481	No, I didn't, I took away his word when he spoke it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33482	Good because I realized that until the end of the debate you took away his word. Comrade Pernar, you are in your debate which, and I think, given what the Prime Minister's report contains in it has not significantly deviated from these things, and I think that as immigration is mentioned inside, they have talked about how people leave Croatia and the economy and certain promises, so all of this means is the taste of European policy and what is being debated on the European Council. And I think you've noticed, no one here today speaks of 329 thousand, or the prime minister is talking about 329 thousand blocked with which he signed the agreements before the election. In VIII. The electoral unit was a person on the HDZ list as a representative of the association blocked. And it was very pompous about solving these problems. I agree, this should be warned and should not be in any way angry with if these things that are essentially our people's concern and torture, and which may be why in Croatia, we may be partially skeptical of the EU, unless we are dealing with these things. Or the thesis that says Croatia is getting a lot of funds from the EU and basically when you see what the balance is, and especially something that is incomparable to how many of our people are going to the EU. So we are at a loss because of this policy towards the EU or the policy that is happening in the Republic of Croatia. Hundreds of thousands of people left last year, more than four years before that. What money can those people replace? None. And on this side should be warned and therefore, partly people are Eurosceptic in Croatia because they see that in fact this policy that we have in Croatia today does not benefit Croatia for good and does not have synergy with the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33483	The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33484	Thank you, Representative Maras, for stopping at the defense of my office as a representative and for fighting for freedom of speech in this House. Perhaps, perhaps, the topics I'm talking about are in the way of those who run this House, perhaps disturbing the party that runs this country. Maybe they wouldn't want me to talk about it, but it's my duty to the people who chose me as the last man on the list and to the people I belong to to to talk about these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33485	The next is a replica of the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33486	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, I am truly sorry that you are serving in fact so in a truly political way of speaking in your debate, and in fact you are giving the truth and the half-truth here at the beginning of your debate that the prime minister is not here, that he does not care what the MPs have to say. I don't know if you've been here since 3:00 he's been Prime Minister here in the assembly. Right up to 18 and 22 minutes, it seems to me, and I've talked here to all the MPs who've replicated and discussed it. So your public delusions are really already declassified, and I think it'd be right if you didn't come forward for a debate like that. The prime minister is the only one who introduced this particular report to be discussed approximately continuously every two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33487	The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33488	Thank you. And, Madam MPs, it is clear to me that you are supporting the Prime Minister, I understand that you are defending him, that you are justifying that he is not currently present during the debate on his own report, that you are justifying that there is an empty chair in front of us, that you justify that this report is not even interested in your HDZ colleagues. I see there's only three of you here, or four of you plus chairing five of, say, 60. I understand your motives, too, but try to understand the seriousness of the messages I refer to about the state of the Croatian society that is not being solved, and it travels just as the Governor of Rohatinski who has visited the world, pardon Vujčić, visits the whole world and the credit crisis, the debt crisis in the country is getting worse and worse. The number of blocked citizens, their total debt rises from month to month. Are you aware of this seriousness? You're aware of that when a woman with tears in her eyes looks at you and you feel her fear because she's having an mirage tomorrow. I believe you're not because you don't have time to spend with people like that because talking to these people and staying with them and standing next to them is probably considered cheap demagogy and pulsism. Okay. It's your choice. My role is not to change it. It is my role to point out to the Croatian people the difference between people like me and people like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33489	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33490	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. Yeah, there's no prime minister here right now he's decided to tactics when the Living Wall says he slips. Unfortunately, there's not a lot of MPs around here. There's only 11 of us right now. So about 7 to 8%. You wanted to actually show the other side of the medal. So you wanted to show the view from Croatia. We got a view from Brussels, we got a look I don't know from Washington but you wanted to point out that there's a don't know and a view from Vinkovac, that there's a view from Slavonski Brod that should also be appreciated but up to it that look the prime minister simply isn't able to see, is not able to hear. He's separated himself from the people. I'm not saying that his intentions are necessarily converted, but he's separated. He no longer understands what his people want. He no longer understands how citizens live. He understands, he knows very well about European directives and regulations, he very well knows how to explain the announcement of some bright future, the digital future, he knows how to announce I don't know any new energy sources. But it's a future we won't experience. Our citizens are interested in the current solution to their problems how they will welcome their next pension, how they will welcome their next salary, how they will pay the loan war, what they will eat in the first place. Unfortunately, the prime minister can no longer understand what it means to live with 350, 400, 500 kuna disability pensions. To be honest, it was very difficult for me to understand. So, we should go out among people and look at the two sides of the medals, with this Croatia of ours should certainly be more important than that of Bruxell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33491	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33492	Mr. Bunjac, I remember when we satirically suggested to the Prime Minister to establish a commission for, which should determine why children starve in schools. And unlike Finland, which has a commission that deals with the future that our government is waiting for in the future and our prime minister has established a commission to deal with the past that is likely to tell the same stories that we have been hearing for 25 years and that haven't solved the problems in our country. You have also said that he is well aware of European regulations and directives, the conclusions of the European Commission, the European Council. Mr. Juncker's opinions, Van Rompuy or Barroso, but the opinion of the people suffering in this country, he doesn't know because if he knew, he'd do something for them. I'm often stopped on the street by pensioners and say, Ivan, please talk about small pensions, I live at 1,400 kuna. Imagine when you sit down for a TV subscription of 80 kuna for 700 kuna, and you have 1,400 kuna pensions? Ask yourself what kind of system it is, how do these people even live, what do they live on? And I know that from the perspective of us here in the Parliament is this one of those dystopian futures, which seems to us to be some fiction, like some unreal world. But this world I'm talking about here from the assembly is a world where hundreds of thousands of our citizens live. Unfortunately, this world and this and such reality are not interested in HDZ representatives and the theme that would never come here on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33493	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've heard a lot about European councils today, a report from the three-session prime ministers I welcome, and it's good that we have practice because we can cover all the topics here. We can talk here about what is of the utmost interest to our citizens, and that is how to solve our problems within the EU and I am truly not interested, I speak figuratively, of course I am interested in information, but I am not interested in how and how other countries are fighting for their interests and for their citizens, I am interested in how the Croatian and Croatian prime ministers can put themselves on the European Council and protect our interests and solve the problems that we have in Croatia and who are torturing us, and we have a lot of problems. We also have problems with our neighbours, here is the current issue of arbitration with Slovenia and the EU's message about what they think about the decision of the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Parliament has unanimously made a decision to get out of arbitration, it is not worth it to them, so they think that we should adhere to certain decisions that this arbitration is making. We also have problems with our neighbours regarding certain companies, as much as we close our eyes before that the INA issue can only be resolved with the conversation and I would say with some negotiations with the Hungarian state or the Hungarian prime minister. And on this side of the Croatian citizens, they want to know how we will fight for our views and how our prime minister will present all the problems we face and how he will protect our companies and our citizens. And on this side, I can tell you that in some things I am not satisfied, for example, I am not satisfied with how the INA issue is being resolved and that the Prime Minister, some 3.4 months ago, after a decision on the Swiss INA arbitration, called a press conference and offered a solution that disappeared from the public and which has no indication whatsoever. So here's the conversation that was with Mr. Orban in Malta on one of the European councils today, the prime minister didn't mention anything special or mention anything other than that they were interested in selling. Well, everyone's interested in selling if you're gonna pay what he wants to pay. So there is no question at all, Mr Plenkovic should not have told me at all that the Hungarians are interested in selling under the terms and price they are looking for for for INA and how they think they would have been compensated. So that was also known before Mr. Plenkovic spoke with Mr. Orban. But the way it's going to be done, where the money comes from, is it actually an interest in some big money that the Hungarians expect us to do at all, we haven't heard anything about it today. We heard about the Croatian economy going forward, which is good, after many years of recession, after we fell since 2009, '10, '11, '12. for over 10% and that we finally turned those trends and in 2015 we started positive for the first time in terms of GDP, 2016. 2.9% and here we are in a certain upper part of the EU average, but of course we should not forget that we are almost at the bottom of GDP, and that is something that needs to be kept in the future but something needs to be done. Reforms should be carried out, there should be continued insistence on certain things that unfortunately we have little and no proposals and debates in the Republic of Croatia. And I have a feeling that both Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government have been satisfied with certain positive indicators and that they are not doing enough or almost nothing to maintain such a trend and that they would eventually speed up the next few years. We are talking about reducing the number of unemployed, but Croatia is still at the top of the ranking by percentage of the unemployed, I think behind Greece and Spain. So that's not enough, I'm not satisfied with that. It's about record low interest rates on bonds we issued, that's what Mr. Maric's been saying for the past few days, otherwise when I mention Minister Maric, I have to say that I'm not very happy with the situation where he found himself in a crisis with Agrokora from where he worked until about a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33495	Can we talk about a colleague, Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33496	Well, this is all about the subject, so it's all about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33497	Agrokor is the topic of the president's report. My colleague Pernar, please shut up, I warn you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33498	Okay, don't tell him to shut up. That's not it. Let's stick to some of the manners. So nobody should be told to shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33499	You can't throw yourself out of the bench and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33500	Okay, you can say don't throw, don't say shut up. I mean, I agree with you having a session, but try a little bit anyway and pick some words that you're warning the MPs because it's not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33501	I think it's very correct and it's not correct what you're doing, but I'm asking nicely for you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33502	I returned to the topic, I just wanted to say so if you had a meeting on the European Council between Prime Minister Orban and Prime Minister Plenkovic about the INA that was not, it was so said diplomaticly on the margins, it was not an official meeting but it was discussed, there was information in the media then it was correct for me to mention the topics and companies in the Republic of Croatia in difficulty, and then I was afraid of the situation in which Minister Maric found himself, yesterday around INA Minister Dalic, you see that the ruling coalition, i.e. the government of the Republic of Croatia, is in the late danger of conflict of interest. Wherever you turn, someone's in conflict of interest. And I must say, this is also a topic on European specific standards and, potentially, tomorrow can be debated on the European Council if the issue arises that we will address the problem in which the biggest Croatian company has found itself again, I will once again make more important for Croatia than the INA. And I have one more thing to say, this isn't about saving owners or property or entrepreneurs, it's about saving 60,000 jobs. And that topic is very interesting, and I am sure that tomorrow could be the subject of one of the European Council meetings if we find ourselves in this situation. But to return to what the prime minister mentioned today, I agree absolutely that in Croatia we must strengthen the citizens' interest and ambition to have, I would say a perspective and a positive attitude towards the European future. We need to keep our, uh, one, maybe the only tool left to us as countries within the EU because we see a nonstop that we from Brussels suggest you do this, you do that. And that's the monetary union. I don't think that's the last thing or that we should give up because we see how certain countries that have gone into the euro have been affected, their economy has been affected by the crisis. For example, Greece, and when they sent them threes and the European Bank told them what to do, how much they had to save and the economy was falling, falling, falling, and now we see where they were. Therefore, Croatia should never, before the economy is at such a high level, even think about the monetary union, and on the other hand, this is the last thing we should do as part of European integration. And finally, of course, Prime Minister Plenkovic here has a certain discussion but it would be good if he also accepted certain views and that, according to certain topics that have been imposed here today, this is certainly the most powerful topic and this is the EU where Croatia has no interest in participating, to open perhaps a wider discussion with party representatives and to explain more in detail the views and to adopt together certain positions that he, as Prime Minister, will represent on the European Councils. I'm sorry, I've forgotten some of the things I wanted to say right now, but that's how when you get into a discussion with the MPs, it's really hard to concentrate and say everything you thought, but maybe there's a chance, here, someone might have raised my line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33503	Thank you very much. The Republic was raised by distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33504	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'd like to say, colleague Maras, I've been listening to your presentations and, yes, you're trying to point out all the important problems you're not talking about. Sometimes more important things are things that are not talked about, that are either kept quiet or must be kept silent, like the situation in Agrokor where, which means, which is not able to repay 45 billion kuna of credit, followed by a breakdown, failure, such a topic is not discussed. But the question is, actually, when you lied, the question is, who were you talking to? Prime Minister Plenkovic, who was supposed to defend his report here, he's not here, he's in absence, in absentia, he doesn't care what you have to say. He has no intention of responding to your exposure, and it's obvious that neither your opinion nor mine is actually very interested. We here have non-representatives who are responsible for their work, but we have representatives who, as counterpart Bunjac said on Fridays at 5 to 12 fill this assembly, vote things that they don't even know what they're talking about. It all goes smoothly, along the pattern, raises hands and then disappears again into the impenetrable historical fold. And we in the end, unfortunately this assembly is without Mr. Maras us the couple that we're staying here, this room would be empty and would probably just be the chairman of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33505	Dear Representative Maras will answer this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33506	Thank you very much. I've got to disagree with you, I don't think Agrokor and the companies in that system are threatening a breakdown, but there's obviously a need for a certain restructuring, and I don't know yet because I don't have enough information, what the state's involvement in that is, probably, yes. And that's why it's not good that a few days are already being released into the media and that neither is the government, and today we see this company on the way. So that's also the whole system and the companies that are inside that system are valuable companies and I'm convinced they have a perspective. It is not a matter of ownership, and it is not a question of who owns it or what form of ownership it will be, but it is a question that, for example, companies do not now advertise them that have strong brands that have been profiled on the market must have a perspective. And the interest of the Republic of Croatia, namely us as parliamentary representatives, and most of the people who work there, is that the company survives and works, that people earn wages, that they have what to live on and educate their children and that in some way they see their perspective. That's why I said it's amazing that Prime Minister Plenkovic, here for several days they've been secretly meeting with the company, but they're not letting go. And the state should make it very clear that it is interested that the company is in some form or after restructuring or whatever, as is most optimal for it to continue to work for those 60,000. It's a message waiting for people, waiting for markets, not by inaction, not by speaking or any other activity, to allow panic to occur on the market, and that this company only these last few days has been damaged. I'm convinced she has a perspective. And don't threaten her with a breakdown. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33507	Thank you very much. And now the closing word in the name of the Living Wall club will be five minutes by the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33508	Thank you, Chairman. Since the topic is the debate on the report from the Brussels meetings carried out by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and he is not here as a rapporteur, and he doesn't care at all what we're talking about here and that he doesn't answer our questions at all, that everything I'm saying feels like I'm talking to a well, like I'm spitin' in the sea, like I'm yelling in the desert. I just don't see the point of further discussion, of further exposure because he can't hear me anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-15-0.u33509	Thank you. I'd like to conclude a debate with that, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll get it over with today, and we'll move on tomorrow. And the point first will be the draft law on the impact assessment of regulations, first reading, P.Z. No. 109. Have a good night. Session adjourned at 7:30. The following is the Report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 9 March 2017 in Brussels, and on informal meetings of the European Council in Valleta, Malta, on 3 February 2017 and Brussels on 10 March 2017. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, MOST Representatives of Independent Lists, the HDS Club, HSLS, HDSSB, the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the Intergenerational Solidarity Party of Croatia, Reformists and Independent Representatives, I give the following conclusion: A report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the European Council held on 9 March 2017 in Brussels and informal meetings of the European Council in Valleta, Malta, on 3 February 2017 and Brussels on 10 March 2017. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I conclude that with 115 votes for, 4 abstentions and 2 against, most of the votes were concluded in the text as proposed by the representatives' clubs.
