ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55849	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Most Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break, the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55850	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55851	Penalty law, subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55852	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55853	Because of the poor position of workers or inadequate government reaction to certain violations of labour rights and minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55854	Is anyone else picking up? A colleague of Shuker or a colleague of Babic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55855	On behalf of the HDZ Club, we're looking for a ten-minute break regarding the current current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55856	Thank you. Okay, so we have four requests for a break. We'll continue at 9.45. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the Honorable Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55858	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to try to get the Agrokor case back into focus again means that it was deliberately removed from the Assembly's Investigation Commission by an extraordinary administration, an increasingly minor media representation, a persistent and permanent cover-up that never stops and obviously won't stop. The suspect director of Jamnica Mislav Galić remains the director of the company, which is so radically and incredibly arrogant and wrongly. Just as a lot of things have always been about Agrokor and here we see that it has continued, so nothing was ever going to be done, it would have gone away by hand, something like an affair would have been mentioned somewhere, but everything would have continued as the old one. We have a case that was often referred to by our parliamentary representative, former minister, Tomislav Panenic, so it's a takeover of Badel, and he was then saying it was an enemy takeover which is true. He also meant that he had absolutely nothing against the modest Meteor company that pushed for Badell's owner but logically ordered "show me the money", so does he have anything more normal than that, show, give the money and buy but it was too much because clearly now at the end of the ballad that he can and without money, he is always in play in Croatia, it is especially seen in the case of Agrokorspread politics and economy. In this case, it's the Minister and the Director. So, with the benefit of the state, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Minister Zdravko Maric and former CEO of Dark Knez, once a giant and today the still respectable company Badel disappeared in the hands of a small meteor. So the operation starts with the former director of Konzuma Darko Knez, in May 2016 for 18 million kuna buying 25% of the company's shares, the student company Meteor and a month later the body under the direct authority of Finance Minister Zdravko Marić writes off 107 million kunas of debts to the state and in February of this year, means under the patronage and with the favor of Plenković's Government, Badel takes over 1862. So even though the offer of a Slovak alcoholic giant was five times as generous. Thus, Badel, the company owns significant properties, vineyards, won a new owner, a Djakovic Meteor group in February this year, a newly-componed company owned by former HDZ Mayor Djakov Ante Rasdic and former CEO of Dark Knez. Now, doorknob 22, there is an answer to the question of why Plenkovic's ministers left Badel, Badel kudikamo, a weaker bidder in an open competition. The bid of only 30 million kuna paid by Meteor to Badel in cash was accepted, will pay the creditors 150 million kuna in the period between 5 and 8 years and 200 million kuna in debt will turn into equity. On the contrary, the second bid to take over Badel amounted to 370 million kuna, 115 million believers immediately in cash and 89 million in production investments. And it is clear to the illiterates whose offer was better for both workers and believers and for Badel himself, yet the Meteor Group received wind in the back of Plenkovic's government. So in the name of this typical Croatian privatisation scam, so in the hands of HDZ party colleagues, the golden coke that Badell still has, despite the fact that all of his previous management furniture has been thoroughly ridden, grounding him up and brought him to a worse position. Badel's administration did everything it could to select the Meteor Group, they included it in the development of a restructuring plan that the creditors needed to confirm for themselves what they had done, having both the support of banks and the government. Whatever the second bidder offered the current debt payment, living money and retaining Badell's workers for 5 years, the states and banks accepted the Meteor's plan. Meteor had an annual turnover of 50 million kuna and only a million kunas to meet his bid-related obligations with the takeover of Badela Meteor would take 150 years at that pace, a picturesque former minister, Panenic. He stopped in time means that the Meteor Group did what it did but it eventually happened. It is interesting that of all the people who have sat in the administration of Agrokora for the past two years, there is only one man left to be detained, and that is this Darko Prince I was talking about and involved in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55859	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. The second debate of the Independent Club for Croatia and the esteemed Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55860	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've been warning you for months what it takes to make a functioning state,... Public administrations, integration of diaspora, which is the largest branch of business in Croatian society, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about analysis as the basis of every national security plan. And what happens? Does anyone read the open... about Croatia and what kind of advisers does the President and Government have and others? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going on... They're blocking the Facebook sites that General Praljak mentions, who's blocking those Facebook sites? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been a long time, the last two days, it's been happening. What's going on? It happens so that the on-call half-tron, the on-call half-tron Drago Pilsel cruises around Republika Srpska and speaks there on Republika Srpska's public television about how IV is. The Guard brigade committed a crime in Mrkonjic City. Is that so? Last week I waved this document, what does it say in the document? The occupation of the municipality of Mrkonjic City, they want to seek war damage, and who else will be charged here when the Hague mechanism moves to a Roman road to BiH? And he's doing this to a criminal who killed tens of thousands of civilians and there were 6 thousand Croats in Prijedor, now there's a thousand of them and he's going there, nothing. Croatia has been exposed for decades to destabilization from the Trojan horse,... Government associations and others who have forged information and testified against their country, it is a criminal offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's somewhere else unimaginable, we know who they are... That whole alphabet soup of these NGOs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the medal will be won in Canada, an officer for the Storm who claimed tens of thousands of Serbs were killed in the Storm, received a medal. What about the Bear pocket? The book was written, the entire battle in Canada was decorated, for the greatest battle... nonexistent battles since the Korean War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing to anyone. There was a documentary and a film played on Canadian public television, what was diplomacy doing? Where are the graduate notes for that historic lie? Nothing. We also have a document here from our joke maher Mr. Mesic. Here it is, it's been circulating for years, it's already open sources of information. And that page 16, says only my wife believes I'm telling the truth. Here you go. That's it. And look now, he's giving documents... In the year News Watch, the English, the British Intelligence Officer who shows up on all the public televisions in England. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how's that? He's giving that Feral "Fekal" Tribune classified documents, too, so is that imaginary? That a president of the state does that? And look now, at the N1 recently The Guardian... from N1, the journalist says that The Guardian, the English newspapers have washed our president for defending war criminals for this last verdict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, you have now come out another English magazine where you praise Mladic as the man who led from the front, he's a hero for Serbs, they totally minorized that verdict for genocide, and now, look who was giving them the documents, here he is. Is that a coincidence? It's been spinning nonstop, it's a cumulative effect of what's been going on here for the last 20 years. You have an example. Operation... They'll compare it to the Storm where the Israeli army is in southern Lebanon, where they killed 10,000 civilians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To them it's unimaginable that someone... The state, because they, in their opinion, provided their borders and the safety of their borders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we don't have that. Knesset recently, the Israeli Parliament passed a law that you are loyal to the state or have no citizenship. Simple. Is there a law in Croatia on treason, high treason, so there is no law. This is high treason and what others do. I would judge them first for treason, for treason, for treason. In Byzantium, the worst, generally the worst crime other than pedophilia is high treason, treason. And it's terrifying that such people are still walking in Croatia. And that's why we're where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55861	Thank you. The third debate, the SDP Representatives Club, the Honorable Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55862	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, I have come forward today and I want to point out a very serious topic in the Republic of Croatia, it is about people who work for minimum wage and late pay and still no reaction by Andrej Plenkovic and the HDZ Government to this problem, so they announced they will do something, they still don't know what, and therefore today at 10.30 SDP points to the procedure of their proposal for a minimum wage law, but they will say something more at the press conference of SDP President Davor Bernardić. So we have a fact in Croatia that hundreds of thousands of people work for no income, no salary, it's 2,800 kuna net, people do very difficult jobs, we have a fam that can't be paid anymore. I'm out of here, especially that's the employer's name. I will give one piece of information from here and ask that it be checked, ask the inspectorate to check it out almost because it is a service activity, especially since it is also about companies that make very high profits and keep their workers on the minimum and information that I have, in an illegal way, pay salaries or bind wages to the traffic of workers and pay them from month to month using various options, some and untaxable such as regressions, goddesses, etc. And I'm asking you to check it out. For example, it is about the transport services or the taxi company Cammeo. It's about 600 drivers who work there and who, by the information I have, are usually employees of minimum wage. They're working people for information that I have that can be checked, I'm asking the inspectorate to check that information, people work under 12 hours a day. They also endanger themselves, their health and the safety of passengers in their vehicles. 12 hours a day shouldn't work that way if you multiply it by the number of days a week, one day a week, most often it's more than 230, 40, 50 hours that people work there. And now someone's gonna say it's a service activity, there's no money, it's hard to raise people's wages. The company praised public data for 2016 that out of 85 million kuna revenues, over 10 million kuna, that is 15%. That's almost 15% of the income was profit. If, for example, there was an increase in salary of 500,600 kuna for those people who work at the minimal in that company. The company would continue to reach 5.6 million kuna at the level of the year. You'd still have a very high profit, but people would have 500, 600 kn more salary a month than they've got so far. Is that fair? I think so. Is that the company's business policy? They probably want to protect themselves and make a higher profit. But the state wouldn't let them. The inspection should check these allegations that I have also said about the number of hours of work and the way the salary is paid and make the employer respect the Labour Act and respect his workers. It's something that's elemental. And on the other hand, the state should, by raising minimum wages, also ensure that people, in this way, take advantage of them. People who work at the company for 2018 kn per month, where this company earns 15% of the turnover throughout the year, by my deep conviction it takes advantage of its workers. And the state should react to that. And I invite you, here from this pay phone, the labour inspectorate, to check out these allegations of mine, because people wouldn't falsely report it and say it falsely. Probably, there's a lot of truth here, and we need to hear what it is and we need to protect our people. And that is why we call from this pay phone on the competent authorities to carry out checks on such employers, and we call on the ruling majority and HDZ to finally wake up and support the raise of the minimum wage in the RS proposed by the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55863	We are going to the last debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55864	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. From today's break, there's a lot that could've been made clear. So when you don't have a suggestion, when you don't have measures and you don't have activity, then you actually go back and you recycle something that's very well known in public. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, and today it could actually be heard from the ranks of the opposition, but also from the main opposition leader, that, let's say, a diameter should be arrested, that the government should resign, and nothing new is actually done. It is, in fact, the irresponsibility and dilettance of the opposition for a long time has not been seen in our society and this sick ambition only to come to power is not good. Yesterday, the opposition leader spoke of a coalition of SDP and MOST to a new coalition that should offer a solution in our society. That, uh... The leader of the opposition actually surprises his colleagues in the club itself as well as the entire Croatian public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's definitely not good. What my colleague Maras is talking about today, mentioning Cammeo, but forgets that Cammeo is actually connected to SDP and some former SDP ministers. Also the state inspectorate, Mr. Maras, as far as I know when you were in power, then you lifted it. As for these events concerning the ruling of the Hague Board of Appeal, the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the truth went to the Croats in BIH, to say certain things that matter, both for us and for the Croats in BIH, and we will briefly repeat here. So, the goal of Croatian policy in the BIH is the full constitutional legal institutional equality of the Croatian people with the other 2 constituent peoples in the BIH and no institutional solution that goes beyond that standard is acceptable to us. The verdict of any court, including that of the Hagg, especially as they are used, in order to stegmatize an entire nation, is not acceptable to us. The Croats in BIH are said to seek nothing more for themselves, but they will not and will not agree to anything less than the other two constituent nations have. Croats in the BiH are the fewest people, but they are not minorities, but are one of the three constituent nations. Current political tendencies, in BiH and behaviour towards Croats, are below the level of individual national minorities in some countries. It is a problem that must be solved because Croatian identity, one of the foundations of the identity of the BIH. And I stress in the end, constitutional and institutional equality, all three constituent nations, is a condition of survival of the BIH as a single state and will be discussed today in Mostar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55865	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55866	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 238th Article has been injured. I beg you, let's stick to the announcement. It is impossible, although Mr. Babic may possess these powers predicted, it is impossible that he knew what we would all talk about, and then, in his presentation, covered all the topics of those we announced. So I'm asking you to warn him that you're talking about the topics he wanted to say. Not that we have a standard so-called. A patch of HDZ reports after we all say, you always give someone from HDZ the last to speak and refer to all of us who spoke earlier. It's just not right, I'm asking you to put us all in the same invitation. It always happens, every morning. So every morning the HDZ Club is last and referred to everything we said before. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is that Mr. Babic did not announce what he was going to talk about, because he was only talking about these topics that we talked about, he was also talking about the connection between SDP and Camme, which has nothing to do with it, I guess I wouldn't be talking about Camme here now that the SDP is a connected way... [[/Intruder: What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55867	Thank you, colleague Maras, so there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that it cannot be spoken in the manner in which counterpart Babic spoke. So, if you consider that there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So we keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55868	Mr. Bozo Petrov asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55869	Dear chairman, I would like to request a break on the country's current political situation. What I can suggest is that I can speak to you as soon as the other parliamentary representatives agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55870	... Mr. Shucker, come in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55871	The HDZ Club is looking for a break because of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55872	Anybody else want a break? But then, 12.25, I'll see you here. It's 12.15 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12, 25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55874	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, perhaps Andrej Plenkovic, are visiting BIH today to learn something and learn. Maybe it'd be better to say, maybe even feel something, maybe a miracle happens. Maybe someone dares to approach Andre Plenkovic, so tell him, really how the people in BIH feel. Maybe it's ringing in his ears the suffering they're feeling, maybe feeling how they're actually feeling left behind. Maybe. If history teaches us how to spend our lives in the future, then this PR visit will be absolutely no use to the Croatian people in BIH. But that's why we won't stop calling until you get moving. Is it normal that the Croatian government does not have a long-term strategy for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Is it normal for the Croatian Parliament and important political actors to have no consensus on their attitude towards Croats and their position outside the Republic of Croatia, especially towards the BiH. Is it normal for a relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to change depending on who is in power in Croatia. Is it normal that because of all of this there is no clear attitude but it all ends up in empty words, floscules, Croats in BIH, we stand by you. And at that point, they're watching them move out because there's less treason there. There's another place where she doesn't feel, because nothing reminds them of it. You left people, Stjepan Mesic, because he told them to turn towards Sarajevo. You've been sending newspaper articles. It's even amazing that the Croats in BIH will tell you, if they don't speak to the cameras, that the SDP while he was in power, would have done more for them than HDZ. As much as you stand by them. But, one thing, you haven't forgotten one thing. You haven't forgotten to go there every four years and pick up the votes. Are you even aware of what it's like for Croats in the BiH today? Are you aware of the possible length of the verdict that took place the other day for the Croats in BIH. Are you aware of what will happen to Croats in BIH if no election law is amended. In the end, are you aware that you would not sit where you sit, that these people did not fight for Croatia. I asked you after visiting the BIH, asking members of the Club and the HDZ and the SDP to draw conclusions, to hold a thematic session on the position of Croats in the BIH, to make a consensus, to make a long-term policy towards these people. I didn't get anything back. I was president of the Parliament then, nothing back. So if I'm not encouraged, will the General's death encourage you? Will you start working then? Whether or not the INA will force you not to do anything because we call you, so you haven't left us any other option, you haven't. And that is why I will repeat Davor Bozinovic at the moment the documents were sent to The Hague, he was the head of Mesic's office. Gordan Jandrokovic, was foreign minister, is today the president of the Croatian Parliament. General turned in Sanader and asked for a location, arrest, transfer of Shakespeare. It's the way you stand next to the Croats in BIH. You're threatening from a pay phone to people at the moment when MP Bulj clearly states from the source WikiLeaks, publicly available to everyone, this for Mr. Jandrokovic, that he was working against the interest of Croats in BIH, while he was minister, at the time from the pay phone, speaking, minding your language. Well, we won't be careful. And we're not gonna stop until you get moving, because there's been a lot of nice words. You don't deserve any better until you're on the move. You can come by after my speech and say that you will hold a thematic session on the position of Croats in BIH, anything you can say, you can say that there is a lot of tension, but we will not stop the pressure until you start. Until then, you didn't deserve nice words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55875	Thank you, too. Mr. Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55876	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, one key question has been raised, which would have been if Mr Plenkovic hadn't gone to the BIH. Then how about calling? If he's gone, it's not good, so whatever he does isn't good. However, I think that this topic and responsibility, Croatia towards the Croats in the BIH, is simply not worth any political bickering. Because all of us who are both root and birth related to the area, which we are bound by this territoriality, well know what has hit the Croats in BiH in the last 50 years. And I also don't think of picking up what's been done, what's done, which in a certain way has stopped certain processes. I personally can only say one thing and it is a campus in Mostar that it is the most valuable thing that could be done for young Croats in BiH, the other thing is the only university in BiH, everything else is universities. And I've just never picked up any political points behind this pay phone, so I'm not going to pick them up now. I believe Mr Plenkovic's departure is something he simply had to do from both human and political sides. He had to go downstairs, talk to political factors in BiH. He just had to leave and we know exactly what political factors are. Well, he's with our fellow MPs from the 11th constituency unit. Whether we can even know what and what direction Mr. Covic and Mr. Plenkovic were going in, whether we can know which direction he was going to talk to the defenders or anyone he's with. Do we even have the right to bid in this high house like this? I don't think so. However, there is something, I think that the Committee on Croatians is outside Croatia in a period of time, sorry to speak in person, but since you said some things, I apologize to you, while you were President of the Parliament offered to put on the agenda thematic session, the thematic item of the agenda of the Croatians' position in BiH. It's a board so there are papers, there's everything. But it wasn't my intention to say this to call you, and if you see it that way, I apologize to you. I wanted to say that in the context of something else. I will never take the right to care for Croats outside of Croatia more than you or anyone else, it simply does not occur to me, because it is something that cannot be measured. It's something a man feels, sees, wants or doesn't want to do. The fact that someone says it's done this much then and so much, let's let the story go. Care for Croats outside Croatia, among other things, and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. And there we could clearly tell if what was included in it was okay or not. And why is that? Because we got up in '91. shoulder to shoulder fought first to defend Croatia. Is it in the interest of all of us in Croatia to promote the truth? Whether a country that cared for 600, 700 thousand exiled Bosniaks could be an aggressor to that country. Well, he did hear what one academic says last night on the Open, he says what you want, all of it paid for. So when his colleague Rasdic tells him what's going on, what about the debt to the Split hospital, I won't be counting on you any further. So this is the political task of all of us, to promote only the truth with what the Croatian state has done. Or what happened in the Storm. If it wasn't for the Tiggers' action, if it hadn't been for Bihac's release, Srebrenica was nothing that would have happened to Bihac. And that's a fact, that's our historical truth, and mine and yours. And everyone here, it's our historical fact, the historical fact of our country, our Homeland War, our defenders, both the dead and the living. We have to fight for it. And we can solve these things one way or another. We can disagree on how to get rid of them but it is important that about basic, fundamental things, what the Republic of Croatia has done in the war for BiH to be firm as one, as a rock that characterizes the character of Croats to be all unique and firm about it. And these are all the other things that you can suggest, one good thing, we can, the left-hand side, and we can discuss it politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55877	Thank you. Mr. Petrov was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55878	Article 238, Article 238, does not make it a lie, but to me and to make false or false, to insult and defamation of parliamentarians. So I'd just like you to allow me half a minute to correct Mr. Shucker. Mr Shuker, you should consult at your club and hear from your representatives who are on the Committee of Foreign Policy that they should have reached conclusions on the basis of which a thematic session should be held and this part that you mention will clearly have my letter from the way in which it suggests it. So it wasn't on me. And it's unfortunate that you actually speak selectively and promote the concept of truth especially in this example. Of course we need to be together, but what you can see is that you're staying in your words and that's what I'm warning you. I'm not talking against you, I'm not talking against Croats, I'm talking against inaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55879	He also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55880	Also a violation of Article 238, I will not use the word spoken by my colleague Petrov, so I have information from the board and I immediately said it. That's what I said, that's what I said. Please nice, so that's what I said. If I were to go through this system now that you've said everything, it just doesn't occur to me. Because I repeat, this is too difficult and too painful a Croatian historical fact to talk to me about it this way. I invite you fellow Petrov, let's shoulder to shoulder and help the Croats in BiH. Here I offer you this shoulder to shoulder now, let's do it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55881	.../Intruder Petrov: You were not there when you were supposed to be./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55882	Mr. Petrov, Mr. Petrov, you like to do a touch, you like to throw, when you do 1% of what I did for the Croats in BiH, you will be grande... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55883	Thank you very much. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure? When did he get back? You didn't answer when Mr. Petrov spoke? ... At the show, well, here you go, let's hear it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55884	The same Article 238 lies, inaction. Thematic session was held in 2.6.6. of the joint Committees of Justice and War Veterans, which was to be chaired by the chairman of the Committee of Arsen Bauk, who did not appear on time, was prevented. The session was not attended by Jovanovic, Stazic, Ronko, Jakovina, and from the very session that discussed the fate of the six in The Hague, Pedja Grbin, who refused to attend the session, came out. So the SDP team obstructed that whole thematic session with its members who didn't want to come or left.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55885	Thank you very much. Time, Mr. Culey. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr... I'll give it to everyone and only make sure it's one minute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55886	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I raised my colleague Shuker's injury to the Rules of Procedure because he said inaccuracy, and the inaccuracies are clear. The fact is that inaction or action against Bosnia's interest, the Croats in BiH can be counted very simply. In 2008, when you were the Minister of Finance of the Book of General Praljak were declared a ham, which is why the Ministry of Culture, but irrelevant but you were then in that government. During your government, these people, not a single minister to those people, left until 2016, left after 12 years, Minister Sprlje. Which means your inaction, forgetting these people was essentially in that cup of poison and at that we are trying to build a common ground and change the policies that were implemented until 2016 while the minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55887	.../Intruder Radin: Thank you. Thanks a lot. Mr. Bull time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55888	... The spray didn't visit. Unfortunately for me, everything these people have been forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55889	Mr. Bull. I'm sorry, Mr. Schooker has asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to give it to him, although the breach of the Rules of Procedure is on the verge, at the level, of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to say so, to say, to use such a sentence. But I'll give it to you because I gave it to Mr. Bull and Mr. Cule, who replicated not to the basic speaker but to one and the other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55890	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured Article 236, which provides exactly when a representative may request a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Bulj didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure while I was speaking, he didn't. So, I've been in this assembly long enough to be able to track who, what and how they react. It's not requested, you're injured. And the other thing is, this is how you engage with the insults of people who are now playing some great friends has us who have been communicating with these people all this time in our own way. So, at least when it comes to me, I'm asking you nicely to refrain, because I've never been a hero if I helped anyone, but I consider it my duty first of all as a citizen, and then on and on as a politician. I'm asking you nicely to refrain from grades and evaluations. First of all, you called your colleague Nina "Dirted" these days. Now you find it appropriate to call me, and so are you. Well, the government didn't make that decision. At least we should know how the system works when you call. But please, colleagues, let's not take this topic for a day-to-day political bickering, let's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55891	My friend Shuker, unfortunately, is right. I'm giving myself a warning about too much tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55892	But I have one hand in the air. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55893	Well, I'd like to take a break on the tax administration's behaviour.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55894	Ha, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55895	I mean, I can talk right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55896	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55897	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55898	Do you agree? ... Here you go, then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55899	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you because of a specific problem here yesterday, media reports on a case where the tax administration, or inspectors, have punished 10 thousand kuna craftsmen for writing a large "P" in an account instead of a little "P" in the account. Namely, if you have multiple business entities each is marked, each let's say that object with “p1, p2, p3” etc. However, according to the tax administration's interpretation, it should be a capital letter P, and the lady had a little letter "p" and it cost her, so let's say a miserable mistake, or I would dare say a minor mistake marginally cost her 10 thousand kuna. Otherwise, there's more than one thing. I'll give you one example next. So the man has a restaurant called Vegehop in Vlaska 79 and there's an inspection, or inspector, and he asked if he had a scale. And he said he had a scale and he showed a scale. And the inspector asked him if the scales were made. He said he didn't. E says it's $4000 fines if I'm not mistaken. And what happened next? He went, he explained as if, that water, that was washed scale, that it had been scratched etc. But it didn't do any good, he paid the fine, bought a new scale and gave it away. And that's where the interesting part of the story begins, another inspector comes in again and asks him again the same question is whether he has a scale and he says I have and it's bazaar, shows he's commendable, and he tells him you know, you don't even have to have a scale, but if you have a scale, it has to be bazaared. And I want to tell you that simply because of the minor things, the minor violations of people are punishable and that's because the role of these inspections, their goal is not in terms of the advisory that such things, the mistakes are removed, it's not their primary goal, it's the primary goal of punishing, the primary goal is to fill the budget. Now, why, let's say one entity legally, like HDZ through FIMI-MEDIA pulls out 21 million kunas and doesn't have to put them back into the budget, and that takes a million years, no one at all. And some small subject, imagine who breaks instead of the capital "P" puts a little, immediately fine 10 thousand kuna. I think the system should be softer to people, that is, let's put it this way, that it should be equal to everyone. So it's not normal for one legal entity as HDZ to tolerate everything and to tolerate others for minor things. And that reminds me of that Bible illustration when Jesus said to them, namely, insects by that Jewish menu were not allowed to eat, they were considered unclean, and then the Jews, if they drank water, would drink it through the gauze so that by any chance any mosquito would not pass through, in the water, that they would not eat it, or some larva, because then they would eat something unclean. And then Jesus said to them, "You drain the mosquito and devour the camel." In fact, people would then, so the camel was considered an unclean animal, they'd eat a camel they weren't supposed to eat, and at the same time they'd drink water through the gauze. That is, Jesus meant to tell them that in the great things they do, let us say a violation of that law and in small things they invent warm water. And so this tax administration of ours, that is, this system of people morsels, CDs means little things punish a lot and big things, big offenses, you know all the HDZ gentlemen, there's as many of them as you want, there's nothing, there's nothing, there's nothing going on, there's judgments going on, everyone's getting loose, so I'm not counting cases right now, I could go on forever. In other words, I want to tell the voters the next thing, the reason why the tax administration treats you like this is because the authorities of people who think that money should be drawn on small people, that small things should be dragonishly punished and that large entities who do let's say bigger offenses a lot, I would dare even say sometimes crimes. It's all seen through your fingers. If the Living Wall gets power if you trust us right now, I can guarantee you from the pay phone that no one will get a ticket because big P was small and similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u55900	Let's move on with the debate. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Today, the Final Proposal for the Law on Audit, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 172, I beg you, just a second and then we're still working on the schedule we announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62973	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. Today there is a final draft of the law on revision in the second parliamentary reading. The first reading was held and was made on 20 September of this year at the fifth session of the Croatian Parliament, and on 22 September the conclusion was reached that the bill was accepted. The proposed law was drawn up to comply with the acquis and to the Directive on the legal audits of annual financial reports and consolidated financial reports and to ensure the application of the Regulation on specific requirements relating to the legal audit of public-interest entities. A total of 223 audit companies and 971 authorised auditors were registered in the Republic of Croatia. The most important news adopted by the law is therefore proposed by this law in order to achieve the basic objectives of the revision directive and regulation. First of all, it concerns the new supervisory role of the Ministry of Finance. According to the current law, this is the most significant amendment, since so far the Croatian Audit Office has carried out quality checks of work, and the Committee on Public Control of Audit, Public Control of the Croatian Auditing Chamber, Auditors, Independent and Authorised Auditors. In view of the fact that the following requirements of the Regulation, the Croatian Audit Chamber can no longer exercise control over audit companies carrying out legal audits of public-interest entities, the Ministry of Finance has been designated in the final draft law as a supervisory authority which meets all the necessary conditions under the audit directive and regulations, and that the supervisory function would be united in one body for the sake of efficiency and economic surveillance. This law will stop the Committee on Public Audition from working. The finance ministry will take over its tasks and part of the work of the Croatian Audit Chamber. These are approvals, registers, controls, supervisory measures, etc. The work authorisation is, therefore, regulated by law to grant authorisations for the work of an auditor or an authorised auditor, an audit company from the Republic of Croatia of another Member State and a third country, as well as reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisation for the work of the same. Under the applicable law, it was only possible to withdraw the authorisation of an audit company, not an authorised auditor as a natural person. This final proposal for a law lays down stricter conditions for access to the audit test. The current law required three years of work experience in audit operations of at least two of which, with the mentorship of an authorised auditor, were required. And now five years of work experience is prescribed, three years of it with the mentorship of an authorised auditor. A permanent professional training obligation has been confirmed to an authorised auditor in the area of the provision of audit services for at least 120 hours within an uninterrupted period of three years. And the novelty of the final proposal of the law is that in the event of a non-fulfilment of continuous professional training over a period of three years, an authorised auditor loses his authorisation to work, and can only be re-emerged if he passes a special examination. The final proposal for the law of the person to whom the Ministry of Finance has granted work approval, or approved by the registration, must be entered in the registers kept by the Ministry of Finance. Detailed provisions regarding independence, professional ethics and skepticism, the prohibition of the employment of authorised auditors by the audited entity, the assessment of the threat of independence, the internal organisation of audit companies and the organisation of audit work are more detailed. The applicable law only provides for the replacement of the authorised auditor of the audit report to be signed at the latest every seventh year since the start of the audit. This internal rotation obligation will remain for seven years, but the novelty in this law is to introduce and rotate audit companies. The initial engagement from the year of the audit firm which audits entities of public interest may be extended for a maximum period of seven years. The regulation allows up to ten years with the so-called ... off or with a rest period of four years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Subjects of public interest must have an audit committee or body that performs the same duty in a public-interest entity. In order to achieve high quality legal review, the final draft law prescribes conditions of expertise, tasks, conditions for ensuring independence and a minimum number of members of the Audit Committee. The final draft law provides for a more detailed procedure for supervision, direct and indirect supervision and supervisory measures in relation to the applicable law and, in accordance with the powers to carry out investigations and the determination of sanctions, to be granted to audit directives and regulations. The supervision will be carried out by authorised civil servants of the Ministry of Finance who are authorised auditors and fulfil other prescribed conditions. Authorised civil servants must be independent of the supervisory entity. There must be no conflict of interest among them, and this is supported by a statement. The draft law further elaborated the provisions on independence. The Ministry of Finance is therefore the competent authority for the implementation of this law, but, in accordance with the possibilities provided for by the Directive, it delegates its powers to the Croatian Audit Chamber according to precisely defined conditions. The ultimate responsibility for the tasks carried out by the Croatian Audit Chamber has the Ministry of Finance. Accordingly, the chamber shall carry out the following tasks: translation and publication into the Croatian language of international audit standards, the adoption of national audit standards, translation and publication of ethical standards, the determination of the programme of audits and the amount of compensation with prior consent of the Ministry of Finance, the organisation and conduct of audits, the determination of the programme and the amount of compensation, and the organisation and implementation of the specific examination. It provides for the entry into force of the law of 1 January 2018. Now I'm just going to say briefly what the differences in the final bill are in relation to the version of the law from the first reading. So after the first reading of the Croatian Parliament, he addressed the motion to comment, proposals and opinions in order to prepare a final draft of the law. The proposal also referred the final draft law to opinions and other relevant state administrations and state bodies and professional associations. The final draft of the law was drawn up in accordance with the observations received and the indications of which we will point out the following. The final draft of the law stipulates that an authorised auditor may be in full or not full-time working with only one audit company, i.e. that he cannot enter into an employment contract or be allowed to carry out audit services for another audit company in any other way for his or her or her own account. The same should ensure an increase in the quality of the audit services provided, since so far authorised auditors have been able to work in several places with the employer's permission. In the light of the exceptional importance of the scope of the work, and taking into account the experience gained so far in the conduct of the supervision, it is prescribed that when carrying out the statutory audit of entities of public interest, audit firms carrying out such statutory audits must have at least three authorised auditors working full-time. So far, it's been two employees. The obligation to negotiate legal audits with at least two audit companies shall be introduced. In the light of the importance of the legal review of public-interest entities, the provisions of Article 43 of the final proposal for a law which prescribes the performance of legal audit in public-interest entities have been complemented. In order to ensure an effective and effective system of public oversight of audit firms and authorised auditors carrying out legal audits of the financial reports of public-interest entities, the highest standards of control have been taken into account when drawing up that article of the final draft law. The legal framework for control control is strengthened in such a way that the prescribed obligation to negotiate legal review of annual financial reports and annual consolidated financial reports with at least two audit firms for public-interest entities which are recognised as entities of increased public interest in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law of the prescribed criteria. Such legal review shall result in the submission of a joint audit report. Subjects of increased public interest for the Republic of Croatia shall be considered, in accordance with the provisions of the final draft law, by companies that meet one of the following two conditions on their own or together with their subsidiaries in the financial year preceding the financial year. The first is to employ an average of more than 5,000 workers during the business year in the Republic of Croatia and the second is to have more than five billion kuna on the last day of the business year. This obligation excludes companies which are a parent company established in another Member State if they participate in the total consolidated activity of the parent company with less than 50%. In the final proposal for a law, in accordance with the discretionary law of the Member States, it is permitted to provide certain non-audit services to an audited entity of public interest or certain tax services, but only subject to the conditions that those services do not have a direct or insignificant impact on the financial statements which are subject to the audit, although the authorised auditor or audit firm respects the principles of independence prescribed by the provisions of the law. This amendment has been made in the light of a number of observations and proposals, the practice of other Member States, and also as the termination of the already concluded service contracts between audit firms and public-interest entities would not lead to doubt and mistrust in the market for audit services. In the final proposal, the law experienced some other less or less nomotechnical changes so that I would not elaborate them here in particular. Therefore, it is finally important to point out that this final draft law aims to improve the existing audit market system and strengthen investor confidence in audited financial reports, which is primarily aimed at strengthening the supervisory function of audit companies, independent and authorised auditors and all of these amendments that I have set out in the introduction. And here I want to thank all the MPs for the debate in the first reading, thank you for the attention and expect a constructive debate as well as the adoption and vote of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62974	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so let's go to the boards. Would anyone like to take a word on behalf of the board? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state with their associates. Here we have today a second reading of the Law on Audit, and in the first reading itself, we have stressed that it is good that some control of the work of the auditors or their business is now moving from the Croatian Audit Chamber to the Ministry of Finance because it was obvious that, although there was at that time control through a particular committee where the Croatian Audit Chamber was in a certain potential conflict of interest with the audit companies themselves, since they were overseeing these audit companies themselves, and they were members of the Audit Chamber. And that's what's good, because the new institutional framework of this public oversight of authorised auditors defines the directive itself. It shall primarily consist of the appointment within each Member State of a single body, in this case the single body shall be the Ministry of Finance, which shall have the ultimate responsibility for the tasks prescribed by those regulations, so that certain tasks under precisely defined conditions may be carried out by other bodies or bodies designated or otherwise authorised by law to carry out such tasks, whereby the ultimate responsibility for the performance of those tasks and in cases always has one competent authority appointed. In this case, all the responsibility of monitoring all these audit companies will be at the Ministry of Finance. I'll say it later, and we actually said it in our first reading on teamwork and technical implementation possibilities, and I think that since it's such a big responsibility that the Ministry of Finance takes to see how well it would be to see and the law comes in, how, almost a month, to see how they teamed up, how many people would be paid. We said it should be freed or made such an opportunity that quality people can be hired and not be under that pay system, the pay system, but we'll get there later. The law also provides that the competent authority, meaning for the supervision of audit services, will be the Ministry of Finance and that the Committee on Public Control, audits will stop working until the Croatian Audit Office has no more supervisory role to play. So that's the key change in this law. Furthermore, audit firms carrying out the statutory audit of a public-interest entity and all members of the network to which the audit firm belongs may not provide directly or indirectly audited entity, its parent company or companies under its control in a Member State with no audit service in accordance with Article 5(1) of this Regulation. This is also, we believe, an important element that these audit companies would not happen to be in conflict of interest, to carry out a certain audit in this society and later to provide them with other non-audit services and thus compensate or create certain other services and that they themselves do not find themselves in a particular conflict of interest so that we believe that this provision is both in the directive and in the law itself that it is welcome. What is important is to point out and given recent developments, here in particular to highlight this, which is to strengthen independence, one of the main objectives of the directive, the audit company or authorised auditors, any person who is able to directly or indirectly influence the result of the audit services must, during the period covered by the financial reports which are subject to the audit and during the performance of audit services, be independent of the audited entity and not allowed to participate in the decision-making of the audited entity. If you see what happened in Agrokor, we see that actually independence is, even though I say the directive and now the law is even stronger, stronger that role, in fact one of the key elements was actually under quotes some kind of pressure on auditors, or at lower levels auditors have warned of certain irregularities in financial reports. However, these independences, these independences, unfortunately, were not. There were talks here and last time, and it seems to me on the rotation board is enough, is it enough these seven years, and here we have heard from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that mostly in European countries it's been about 10 years, we have reduced it to 7 years. There was a question that it could go even lower that the audit could be carried out maybe every 3.4 years. A certain concession has been made here to go less than is prescribed in EU member states. But what matters is that even though there are here, as we have now said, additional surveillance mechanisms, which is that the supervision of the Ministry of Finance is not more of an audit chamber. By not being able to perform audit services here, not audit services, that same audit house. Also, where the article itself shows that this independence, independence that should be respected, and that rotation is 7 years, it seems to me that here we will be able to control the whole, whole process in the implementing parts. And I'm going back to what we actually said in the first reading itself and what we have warned here and given support to the Ministry of Finance and perhaps through some other laws to change, means the technical implementation of this law. Because you can't expect if you call a public tender as for any particular official or substitute to be admitted to the Ministry of Finance, that the tender lasts a year to two, then take him to some salary of perhaps 4,5 thousand kuna and that he manages to oversee the large audit companies that have salaries, which we have seen, somewhere around the total annual turnover have about half a billion kuna and that they oversee the experts that we have paid 20, 30, 40 or 50 thousand kuna and that they are supervised by people in the Ministry of Finance with some 3, 4 thousand kuna and the question of who will ever come to you in the Ministry of Finance for such small money. Or when you're looking at who you're watching and how much money you're actually looking at on the audit market. So we think that, and we know that this law comes down for some less than a month, I'm interested in what was done here, whether a public tender was made, in which way the Ministry of Finance, I say gratefully that they took one such responsible function, because ultimately they wrote here themselves, it's just that they're going to be responsible for the whole process, whether they've made it possible and given themselves space to hire quality people, that they can and pay these people because look, it's not so easy to find people on the market with these specific skills, the audit knowledge that they work for the state, that they work for the Ministry of Finance. We have to pay them because it's impossible for them to carry out the audit later, to monitor these audit houses, and we know that they're multiple paid and that their basic work is actually audit. And we see that sometimes these ethics issues in this case which recently showed actually for auditory houses that sometimes, there may also be a slippery terrain which is not only imaginable for Croatia. You know very well about this great house, Arthur Andersen, when she audited the great American entrepreneur Enron, when they falsified all those reports and when it all actually fell apart, when actually the auditory house itself fell apart because you don't have a Big Five anymore than you have a Big Four, it means 4 big international houses. However, the further the question was raised here, and I must admit that I was a little surprised by that response from the Ministry of Finance in the very explanation when we spoke about how much it would cost some responsibility for those auditors. Because look at these audits of Agrokor, 50 billion have traffic and this is how they fake the reports, they sign it, etc., they match up to 800,000 kuna. And now you ask the question of whether these companies are of public interest and the state has brought that company of public interest because in their size they are, are we going to install any additional mechanisms here to say that, it's just costing, you can do all that, and you can see that people in audit houses warned about certain irregularities there tens of years ago, that it was ignored and that ultimately it was just paying some 800 thousand kuna. And then even the ministry here says, since we've warned about this amount ratio, we're aware that you can't burden them too much, that it's not the same to do an audit, an audit report for a company of 5, 3 or I don't know ten million kuna or 15 or 20, which is actually most of our entrepreneurship, 90% are small, but let's see for these big ones. We know who the big ones are, which group of big companies that only them, so be careful that some small but name firm comes and so much market we give freedom that the market can only choose to say whatever, I'll choose, I won't be one of these... And then the government must take, pay, "Government" or the Commissioner must pay Price Water Cooperhouse, the government must pay him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that house itself did not choose that auditor but chose someone lower and then even here responds, when we warned that it might be to formulate some kind of insurance model because here they have to include insurance houses, here they have to turn on either the insurance houses or they have to be defined to secure such a certain amount, see how it is out there. Because it's certainly not possible that outside not only in Europe, it's not possible that such a small auditory house can now revise Wolkswagen, that it can revise Porsches or some huge companies that are on international markets and that they can revise some sort of auditory house. And then even the government says here, since we're warning ourselves that we need that amount, they say, since in practice so far they're not... problems with those amounts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says neither the same disputed thread showed the need to change the amount. They're still writing that in the report, they haven't seen any problems in the practice of audit houses. Well, it's only now that they're going to press charges against that auditory... Well, it's only going to start now when this part happened, so you've seen the Sberbank announcement, you've also seen an announcement in a number of other investors about lawsuits against audit houses that weren't just one but there were more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it even says, "You haven't actually noticed the problems with the audit houses." I have to admit, I don't understand this sentence. We've given you support here, we're affirmatively talking about this law, we're going to support it, we've supported it in the first round, and let's now on these laws that tomorrow some commissions aren't reopened, see what we can do in the laws to help no such cases happen tomorrow, and this is a good opportunity for us to remove it from politics, from certain policies, that we're in laws if something happened to us, certain mechanisms where we see you say that, yeah, you're reviving, now I say cartoon, one company that has a billion kuna. Now, you can't revise some kind of name of the firm because the question of how many of those are still on the market and the question is how Agrokor has now revised his financial reports, what about the audits of his suppliers' financial reports. Did anyone ask you a question? What will happen now to the audit reports of all suppliers for 2016 because Agrokor revised his 2016 reports? And what did they do? They've filed internal claims. As many as they wrote down, they wrote down what Mr. Ramljak said, 50% of them didn't want to go to 100%. And you know what that means? This means that each audit office, each law enforcement supplier, or temporary administration law, must revise its financial reports for 2016. What will happen to you, now questions are being asked, is that already done, because you can't just do in one society and for the whole market not, and what kind of revised financial reports will look like in 2016, what it will look like in 2017, and what will be further mechanisms,... repercusions to the audit market if all revised reports have shown a non-real situation on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what about this law? Then when they start re-opening questions about the audit houses, if they've been well audited and predicted those financial reports, we've said here that it's all costing peanuts. And the market is worth total, only the audit market is worth half a billion kuna. So that's what I'm talking about, and that's why we came here to talk affirmatively and to see, to remove completely from politics and to say let's help together, to see which of these are the elements where we can help the government to make such things happen without killing the whole market of the audit but to put certain limits on who can, which are of interest public companies that can cause such problems on the market and to see which auditors will be able to revise them. I've been reading recently how banks have finally started reading audit reports. Here, recently I've been reading in some reports that the banks are back now, too, because they were giving money without any... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62976	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected colleague, Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62977	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Lalovac, you have made a series of observations about the proposal for this new State Audit Act. So I'd like you to try to answer a few of my questions. The first is that you have listed a whole series of proposals, i.e. a grudge, and you have expressed your willingness to support this law, so please, please, why does the SDP support such laws? We all here constructively want to contribute to new laws, but you can see that nothing is accepted. So why do you simply express such one, let's say the intention, when you know it won't be accepted. Secondly, if you're not worried about the concentration of power at the Ministry of Finance. You know that the IRSCO was out of the department of finance's jurisdiction now came an audit outside, now it's at the Ministry of Finance. So what's the point, please, try to explain to both us and the citizens, because you've been Minister of Finance, which is the meaning of rounding up, that is, collecting this kind of intelligence over these important functions. Furthermore, we know that it is an auditor's job to verify the truthfulness of business events and what has been done in accounting. We know that it's used in quite a number of cases, accounting cosmetics and that it shows what, that things are shown sometimes better than they are and it's very dangerous. I remind you that Agrokor, two years ago during the preparation of the initial public offering, that a prominent global audit company was doing a review there. Why hasn't anything been said so far? And did they have any other findings on the situation in Agrokor? So here, on these three questions, please try to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62978	Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62979	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, first because we said we wanted to be affirmative and that there were good things in this law. We made it very clear what good things they are. The Croatian Audit Chamber was in conflict of interest. Why so far? Because they controlled themselves. We said there should be separation, they can't control themselves, they're members of the audit chamber, they're auditing, and there are certain potential conflicts of interest. And in fact, the directive itself said it was good to move that part away from the audit chamber, to separate that part and that there must be an independent other institution that the state itself has set up. In this case, the state has appointed the Ministry of Finance. And I don't mind, I don't think there's any special authority, the minister himself, but I've just expressed concern, if he'll be able to team up, if he can bring people in, if he can organize himself in such a way, because they said, "Be careful," where the Financial Ministry has the ultimate responsibility. You know what that means? Tomorrow when it happens to you like this with Agrokora, Sperbank can sue the Ministry of Finance, the State. Will they then and why, because they didn't monitor the audit services, so they wrote it themselves. Okay, if that's the model, 'cause they took responsibility for it themselves, for surveillance. So if there's been any leaks, any legal failures, they can sue the state. Okay, that's the model. I said, that's how they were determined, that's their part, they think I can address it, and I told them in that part, I even said, I support them, and there isn't, I'm just afraid they're teaming up. Because I can't with 3,000 or a whole one system capture one concrete surveillance. So, this law has good things, I've just expressed my concern about teamwork and the revision of societies of public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62980	Thank you. Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62981	Comrade Lalovac, here you mentioned at the end of your presentation the revised 2016 report. So, if these reports set a lower tax rate, a tax base, and in any case we saw it from the inscription on, the temporary administration, which appeared in the media that only the question, the return of taxes, therefore, was opened, of the state towards Agrokor, but again what you mentioned later in the audited reports of suppliers and all others, what will happen to this? So we support this initiative of yours to question the 800,000 kn therefore, the responsibility of the auditor, because it is obvious that the damage can result in much greater than these 800,000 kunas, and that absolutely state should not bear responsibility in terms of the return of taxes and all the other taxes that we have encountered in those basic reports that it teaches to society. So I think we should really examine it and see the responsibility of the auditors themselves here anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62982	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62983	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank my esteemed colleague Klimian, that's exactly what we wanted to do affirmatively, but see if the Government has defined the Law on Special Extraordinary Administration, which are companies, companies of public interest. Right? And they listed the number of employees, per share of GDP, etc. Whether we can define them by these legal measures, or perhaps in the future by some technical means, that the state is not responsible for them, but ultimately transfer them to those who actually make money on them. Because here, in fact, the state will take control and you let go of that question, we're just monitoring it. So, the one who oversees, in the end, alone, if any failure happens, who guarantees you, that such big banks, they say, look, you've been watching it, you've missed it, so we'll try to charge ourselves. I'm just trying to say, let's agree and try to see, maybe for the future, how that part gets removed from the state, I commend that the ministry took that part on itself, a burden that's huge, so it's moved away from that audit chamber because they were in conflict of interest. But let's not let that responsibility in that part of the country happen tomorrow and install mechanisms that auditors can carry out audit reports and thus move that responsibility away from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62984	Thank you, too. We are going to a second debate, a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and a respected colleague of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62985	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate of my colleague and colleague. I will briefly try to give some general visions of the amendments to this law, and ultimately, since it is a second reading that has been passed through certain amendments that counterpart Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric has submitted to this law, of course, behind which the club of the Most Independent Lists stands and we deeply believe that the motioner will also see the importance of these amendments, and in that sense, based on their determinations under these amendments, we will take a position on the final vote on this bill. First of all, let's spice this debate with one example. In an old film, Father counseled a son who was interested in choosing told him to be a satar or a watchmaker. When his son asked him why he wanted to do it, he said as long as people measured the time. There's a similar thing here. While it's actually business, there'll be audits. If we look at some historical writings even in ancient Egypt, we have auditors and you know that they were very hard on their auditors there. That auditor who stood at the entrance to the warehouse and received, for example, wheat and that auditor who controlled the quantity of goods in the warehouse, if their findings did not match, were killed. It is, of course, a really nasty form of calculating with irregularities or with crime. But today in the Republic of Croatia, this law is of paramount importance. In his discussion, Lalovac also mentioned recent events. Therefore, in connection with a company of systemic importance such as Agrokor, in which it is now certain that the lawsuits will take place because it is obvious that those who have audited or produced audit findings did not take into account all the facts and did not notice that many financial reports actually do not correspond to the truth. In that sense, this law has several dimensions. First of all, he's important to the state because it's the state that has to stay out of the game, but he's got to secure the game evenly. Because in the end, it's always the state that pays, i.e. citizens pay for all irregularities, everything that happens and what is negative in this context especially in those companies that are of public interest. And here, right now, let's get out of this part, that's where I agree with my colleague, Lalovec. In this case, it is also important to amend the law that the state assumes control instead of the chamber so far, the audit chamber of the state takes control of the audit procedures. But what I don't understand then, and we're also talking about reforming the education system. Article 68 states that the Ministry shall organise and conduct audits for auditors, training, and in the same Article 101, this shall be left to the Auditory Chamber. And now you are actually the process of education or testing the competence of auditors you give to the chamber, and you are ultimately holding responsibility as a state for the procedures that these auditors will carry out. In other words, are you sure what your colleague Lalovec has asked himself that they will have sufficient competences? On the other hand, this law is important for the audit chamber itself. It's abolishing this power so far. Someone in the public hearing asked if the Audit Chamber would now reduce the fees that were being made to her. The promoter says there, so we assume he will, but how do we know that? We in the Republic of Croatia now have 22 chambers, 22 + 1 that's the Chamber of Intellectual Property, so 23 chambers. They operate more or less by similar principles and what they always do, all those who participate in the work of these chambers regularly say that they are actually giving quite high. Just take an example of exams, professional exams. There are you know even the exam is not as expensive as the expensive preparation for exams of all materials, of course not taking into account that anyone who engages in such tasks in this case of audit work expects to eventually earn something on the market. On that side, this law determines these relations between, in fact, it leaves them more or less the same than in this part of surveillance. And the third thing about the auditors themselves, we saw here that actually in the bill of law it says in the explanation that we have a number of authorised auditors, we have a number of auditors, we don't have independent auditors, so at least it says. The promoter didn't write why that's the case, there's probably a reason. So this law compared to auditors is more or less unfair because it ignores the basic fact in our society, which is the level of fiscal capacity. Is it in other words that when we talk about the penalties that it foresees, I'll say about it later in the amendments, the penalties are really high and don't really respect the financial power of all auditors. We don't say some audit houses or societies have big traffic, while other societies, of course, have a smaller volume. And, of course, the fourth group to which this law applies are self-audited societies. If we start from the assumption that everyone who operates, that his goal is primarily fair, transparent business, that his society is intended to operate according to laws and regulations, then this law in that part is quite good because it will enable him to audit and achieve certain benefits. However, a little bit surprises the data now that is again, actually connecting to a colleague of Lalovec, he first spoke so I remained so. The speeches just now check the audited results, which is actually a little odd, because in today's business you have to know who you're dealing with, so you have to see a really blood count on that company. Because if the financial report didn't make a good revision of it closes down, then anyone who does business with that company and this company will have problems, and we saw that in fact in the fate of many small suppliers in the Agrokor concert. And then, of course, the banks that lend the loans give the money. There are, of course, securities that are then more actually in this large network of all these relationships are difficult to follow. Because when you set up one wheel there, then it's hard to get along afterwards. We have seen that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has approved the State's Attorney's office additional funds so that they can actually enter into the heart of this issue. And now the question is, imagine what little really is for the Republic of Croatia and the defeat of whether the State's Attorney's Office has been trained, if there's any personnel to monitor these complex transactions. So if the audit has failed, if state institutions are like HANFA, CNB, all those who should have not responded, then can the State's Attorney's Office and ultimately the state itself do it. And now, in this bill of law, this great burden also belongs to the Ministry of Finance, whether the Ministry of Finance has so many personnel and... personnel to do so. And now let me finally present these few amendments that I think the proposer will have the hearing so that we can finally take a positive view of this legislative proposal. The first thing we want to point out is otherwise, the very formulation of a good reputation may be a little bit in our society today and to express myself as devastated as this. What does a good reputation mean? A good reputation does not mean that someone will act legally. The applicant shall, of course, define here a good reputation, but remains one part of the article 8 where ‘the Minister of Finance sets out in more detail the conditions which he/she takes into account when assessing the good reputation referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and the documentation applicable to the need to establish a good reputation assessment’. Now, let's get this paperwork to the office, but he makes his own regulation, and now it's a matter to be warned about, and it's true that this kind of process removes the influence of politics and that a good reputation is ultimately not defined by some other reason than the reasons that are important for future business of society. The second amendment refers to paragraph 3. not audit services provided by audit firms and associated persons. These are the most common consulting companies, i.e. various consultants, consulting operations are very lucrative jobs and often make more income for some companies than for audit operations. Not to explain this whole amendment is to make it impossible for someone to earn more money or more profit by doing jobs that are not of an audit nature, but of an audital nature, and then comes into a kind of conflict of interest and then question whether his job as an auditor is what is in line with fundamental principles and what the law provides. The third amendment concerns a legislative solution in many EU Member States related to the rotation of auditors has been taken a maximum period of ten years, the proposer proposes seven years, we are not quite clear why. We think that even in the public debate, the auditors themselves pointed out that problem, we see no reason why it would not be ten years when most countries use this maximum amount of ten years. Even there, I think, the Croatian Telecom that made the remark, the truth is that the promoter warns him that he can comply with the old provision. But when we go into law on individual cases, it's not good. Generally, we don't see any obstacles why it wouldn't be ten years. When we talk about monitoring the quality of work here, it is specified that for those companies that are of public interest that in three years it must be at least once, for the other six years, I think a much better solution would be to keep this surveillance on a continuous basis, especially for the reasons that are mentioned here and the previous debate, especially from what the state has now taken responsibility for the supervision, so why not keep that surveillance kept going so as not to happen. Because when we look at some kind of business process for three years it can be a pretty long period in three years, anything can happen. And let us now go to these penalties, so in Article 116, provided for from 200 to 800,000 kuna, the penalty is proposed to replace between 40,000 and 10% of total annual income in the preceding financial year in order to truly respect the individual financial power of individual companies. And we have article 117 is the same where 200 to 800 thousand kuna are defined, and that takes from 40,000 to 10,000 annual incomes. I hope that the proposer has reviewed these amendments to respect them, I think they are going to benefit and apply this law because in order for the law to be good, he has to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62986	We're going in a row, we've got five replicas. The first is a respected colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62987	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, Sagar, you've touched a provision in your presentation that doesn't make any sense to me, which is the auditor's rotation. So under this provision we have become the strictest country in the EU, we want to be more papal than the Pope in some things. So most EU countries have a rotation after ten years, we put... after seven years. I consider this provision to be an additional administrative burden for Croatian companies, and the cost and time spent in the selection, transition, adjustment needed by each new auditor and may have negative consequences for foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia. So if already other EU countries, I think only Poland and Bulgaria have five to seven years of rotation, they haven't put that provision in place, I don't see why we're here any tougher because I say there's no use.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62988	Answer, here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62989	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague of Sladolev. So this is one of the key remarks that was also in the public debate. So it's not just that we as advocates feel it's not good to limit it to seven years, it's just that people who are in the profession say that. I hope that here's the opportunity it might even suggest why exactly, but you should leave it. So far, the provision has been good for ten years, especially since most countries have the deadline set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62990	Second replica, dear fellow Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62991	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Žagar, I welcome the state's willingness to take responsibility for the results of the revision of companies that have public importance and I think it's good because if we had the responsibility of the state we would not be where we are and on this matter the state, or what needs to strengthen its ability and be able to respond to such challenges, it is indeed a huge challenge and there should be significant resources to empower people. However, whether it is proportionate to the state's significance, whether it is necessary to reduce the detachments for various chambers as you have pointed out and for the audit chamber and for everything else. So, please, in that context, one review because I didn't really understand it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62992	Dear fellow Orepic, therefore the professional chambers, they're sort of, let's say the legacy, they've been growing for years, all the professional chambers, some of them make more sense, some of them have less meaning in the whole story. Here we now have an opportunity around the Croatian agricultural chamber that will be imposed as if it were mandatory to pay for membership, there was a word about the crafts chamber. But when he talks about the audit chamber, it's good that the audit chamber exists because it represents a profession and it's important for the ministry to have an opinion on the profession. Now, what you're asking is now the problem of the relationship between the state and the chamber because the state gives certain powers to the chamber, in other words the state says and listen, we wouldn't interfere, let the people who are from the profession do so. And then you have a situation, here's the state leaving an audit exam, not only now with this law but before, but the state doesn't have that influence, I think there's one representative of the ministry in that commission or whatever. In fact, the legal proposal is not clear to me, it's probably the regulation that determines who actually makes this examination committee because we have a little bit of that again, of course there are people who have certain teaching calls, not people who have no knowledge, but it's important that the state is there to be absolutely clear and then to see what the actual costs and tests and preparation for the exams are and there's a problem then the chambers. They take the chambers, they take the money, of course, as much as they're allowed. Some, even here, auditors complained about why tariffs were not defined, and audit tariffs, but I guess the EU does not allow, in connection with the work of the chamber, then it might be clearer and in fact how many auditors can, I'm talking about smaller auditors as much as I can make on the market so that I can pay for all these duties that are imposed on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62993	The third replica of the esteemed colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62994	Your Honor. Dear colleague, my replica is about what you said about why the audit chamber works and actually tests and has that authority. So the concept of auditors is very complex therefore cannot be taken over, the ministry cannot take over and that part of the exams or audit work also refers to complex knowledge and economic and legal and technical, etc. So, however, what is clearly defined in the law that the minister prescribes the scope of the evaluation and all other details, so in the regulation itself, it is very clear that there should be no dispute at all about why the audit chamber is carrying out this, anyway, it has done so so far. And I think that from all the experience we've had so far, we've come from very high-quality personnel. What is a second question is about your referencing to Article 116(2) of the very proposals of colleague Lesandric and the amendment. I've been checking here with colleagues here present, so it's not possible to determine in the range of penalties in both absolute and relative terms. So we have to determine ourselves and that's what the ministry said clearly, it has to be either an absolute amount, so it's going to be the lower limit of 40 or 200 thousand kuna or it's going to be in relative but then it's going to be applicable to everyone. So they also checked the income levels of large, small audit houses and then actually came into these ranges that are in this way appropriate to sizes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62995	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62996	Thank you, dear colleague Peric, for this clarification, I really didn't know it, probably... She was a colleague of Lesandric's when she was preparing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you know what the remark is now? The main auditor's application is why, then, as the ministry said in a public debate they were informed and reduced, only the highest penalty was reduced. We actually, let's make it an absolute amount but let's reduce those lowest penalties according to power. And as far as these exams are concerned, in today's world, competences are the most important. It's kind of, here's just one brief example, the doctor left alone without a nurse, he gave an injection, he had to give an injection, there were no sisters, the thing got complicated, the patient, I don't know what the consequences were of the patient's health, he sued, the patient's family sued the hospital, the hospital sued the doctor and the doctor eventually sued his university because they didn't train him to give the injections, he didn't actually write anywhere in his diploma that he was trained to give the injections. In that sense, I'm saying, the Ministry is giving the chamber an exam. So let the chamber define exactly, and they are very extensive these necessary knowledge, let them define what people have competences for not to happen what counterpart Lalovac said, they will pass the exam, this will get a man that is authorized by an auditor and eventually do something that will ultimately fit the state. That's the only way it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62997	We're going to the fourth line, dear colleague Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62998	Dear Representative Sagar, you, in one part of your presentation, touched one interesting thing, mentioned the state's attorney's office. I would like you to finally assess this law but I will only mention some things in this law that you mentioned and mentioned by MP Peric, I am sincerely mildly hypocritical because we will ask the state's attorney's office as a colleague of Sladolev said, we will be more papal and of the pope after all that has happened and we will ask that every 7 years rotate, the administration will increase, all of this, we will ask the state's attorney to engage in the maximum, and on the other hand, we will reduce that state's attorney's budget funds. I don't know if anyone noticed it but the state's attorney's office... reduced budget resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, I'm asking him to activate himself even harder. What I would really like to mention is that it is not a representative Peric mentioned, I would mention this amount of minimum that is mentioned, the penalty, it is not really fair, it is not correct for people when they are involved in e-consumption, that they are told that their objection is respected, and that only part of the change is being made on the other hand, and it is not listed to people who change. And I think it's really fair, if we're going to talk about honesty not changing absolute amounts, let the percentage change. The percentage is fair, the relative amount is fair. And I know that this does not contribute to large audit houses because their work is, that is, in that percentage, an absolute amount much higher. And then, let's go once honestly,... 10% so if they want to take on a lot of responsibility, then they'll pay a lot of damage when they screw up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they screwed up, and everything that's happened in the last 10 years around Agrokor is clearly screwed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u62999	Thanks for the line. He's a friend of Sagar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63000	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Petrov, you have opened a very important question, I forgot to mention it in the debate, and the directive says, "The key word is independence." When we talk about audit procedures, audit companies, anyone who audits has to be independent, so he can do his job. And what does independence measure for you? Independence measures the material assets a man has in his possession, because if you're talking about the state's attorney's office now, if the state's attorneys don't have a computer, if they don't have a chair, a chair where they can sit, that if they don't have a closet in which they can put their files, then all we're talking about is pointless. And then where are they, their personnel, where are their knowledge, because I'm not saying these people probably have certain knowledge and personnel, but obviously they haven't been able to do their job so far. And this shows government intervention where it gives them additional funds, however, it doesn't seem enough either. Because in this case too, it's a very complex procedure. When we talk about auditor independence, it's the same situation. So in order to be independent and to point out, because the directive speaks of whistles, to indicate that there is an irregularity, one really needs to be independent and not afraid for its existence. Who knows, maybe this Agrokora thing... If there were people who dare say something, something's wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can also conclude that people may have known, but they were afraid to, say, go public with it, that things aren't going well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63001	Last line, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63002	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sagar, I'm interested in one thing, shortly before my colleague Lalovac spoke of it. We're about this way of thinking, come on it wasn't right, it was... that the Croatian Association, in fact the Chamber of Auditors, there are auditors, so they monitor each other, it does not go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, can we be satisfied with the claim that this will only be an improvement, and you and others have cited a whole series of shortcomings and shortcomings in this proposal for the Law on Audit. So, is it even good to support a law like this, so it's said well, it's not like, it's going to be something better. And we know that these remarks and other amendments will not be adopted. So I agree that seven years is too long. But what's important here to say, this concentration of power at the Ministry of Finance, you see now is now a tax leap there, so they monitor the audit. ... Google, so look in other countries, who oversees audit companies, that is, audit firms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I haven't noticed it's the Ministry of Finance anywhere. These are certain supervisory institutes, so audit companies, different names... etc. Would it not have been better if he had been one or two members of that audit chamber, one from the Ministry of Finance, one from the HANF, so we have the State Audit Office. So let's go, if something isn't good at first and it doesn't smell good, let's not let it go any further, and what's the use of making bad laws, and especially here I support you in this, that if in the end they're going to pay for the Ministry of Finance, the state, the failures of some audit firms, so what we actually did. Here, please, your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63003	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63004	Thank you, dear colleague Lovirnović. So, as I said in the debate, I can't give you a definitive answer right now, the Mosta Club will take a member, since I'm a member of that club, we'll take a stand on our final relationship with this law. I agree with you, we have just, through this amendment colleague Lesandric, pointed out those things that matter. And not only do we say, but the auditors, who have been in this business for many years, point out. And I agree with you that there is work to be done, we have a systemic problem in society. So, in this case, come on, that's why I say, there's something positive. Let the Ministry of Finance, just don't keep an eye on themselves, let the Chamber not monitor it. Because this is a similar situation for you here, when the State Audit established, related to technical inspections of the vehicle, which is all charged and how the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia charges the services of issuing a conviction that he has charged some kind of tax. He's charging himself, it's hard to tell logically, what I am now, was here in the debate. So, there are legal entities that monitor themselves, they determine everything themselves, and in the end, it doesn't make any sense together. In that sense, this law has, let the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Finance takes on a big risk. But otherwise, what I mentioned about a road vehicle, he said, it's not a small amount of money, so it's not even funny like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63005	We've done the replicas, so we're going to discuss the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63006	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is a law before us that is very important, although according to the debate and according to the number of MPs in the Assembly, that would not be said. The first Revision Act was passed in '92. The basic law of the revision was adopted in 2005. with the harmonisation of this law with the directives and I would say a few things on behalf of the club before I move on to what we think is very important in the Revision Act. First of all, when we talk about the Revision Act, when we talk about the Audit Act, then we need to be aware that this revision should primarily be something for the company's peaceful dream because they are the only ones watching, reviewing all documents, assessing business decisions, controlling the application of legal regulations. Just take that famous story about creative accounting, so applying certain... as regards the Accounting Act, as regards international accounting standards, etc., so reviewing is something that is very important for the owners. In particular, it is important for listed companies because based on audited financial reports and their value on the stock market can grow or may fall. That is why this law is important and perhaps some technical provisions are not as important as the two things that I think are crucial in the work of audit companies and in this Audit Act, which is independence and responsibility. The independence of an auditor who controls a company regardless of its size, so this auditor and his knowledge and his observations simply no one in any way, not the owner of an audit company or the owner of a company where the financial report is audited, shall simply not affect him to change it. That independence is the key to the whole story because if you don't have that independence, if people who have papers in their hands, who evaluate certain processes, who are reviewing and if they write something and if one of them asks them to change it, then this whole story falls into the water. We can write the best law in the world, but not only in Croatia, but everywhere in the world, there have been failures of companies that have had great audit reports, then something happens that happens. So that independence of the auditor is very important to me. Responsibility, responsibility is something very important. I said the owner of the company doesn't have to have any knowledge or knowledge of finance, accounting about anything, so the purpose of the audit is to confirm to the owners that what is in their business books and balance sheets and reports is true, that is, the purpose of the audit and audit on that side has a responsibility to the owners. And what's crucial, anyone who's been on some kind of supervisory board of some kind of company, so when you have the adoption of a revised financial report, then the logical thing is to impose the question that you're asking this auditor, we're fine now as a supervisory board that it's all okay. Why? Well, because the auditor is the only one who controls all the papers and that's what we have to keep repeating. And we're chasing the notion of what the audit is doing and what the IRS is doing. According to the Tax Administration Act, the IRS is clearly defined what the IRS is doing, the IRS is concerned about the collection of public revenues both in the state and in the budget of local self-government units, but the revision is quite different and therefore the law is very important. And when you look at the history of the adoption of the Law on Audition in the Republic of Croatia, then you will see how the Croatian economy developed, how the ownership structure was developed and how certain provisions of the Audit Act were amended to strengthen that audit. So that's what's very important because many have missed the assessment of this creative accounting and ultimately these latest events around Agrokor. This creative accounting is something that some of the huge companies that had the biggest possible credit rating when the economic crisis began to fall to their knees and failed. And now let me look back on what we at the club think is very important and make certain comments, which is the new supervisory role of the Ministry of Finance. So far, the Croatian Audit Office has carried out quality checks of work, and the Committee on Public Oversight for Public Control of the Croatian Audit Office, Audit Society, Independent and Authorised Auditors. And now look at your colleagues and colleagues, if the EU directive says that this committee and the Chamber of Commerce can't operate that surveillance then we're left with only two options, we don't have 15 options. One thing is that one body does it independently within the Ministry of Finance or another to set up a new independent regulatory agency, we don't have a third option. Whether she's going to be called an agency or something, it's totally irrelevant, let's say an independent regulatory body. Now we're here and we're prior to it being, not us as a club, but in this debate to be part of the Ministry of Finance, and tomorrow we're going to discuss something else, so we're going to talk about how we have too many agencies, this and that. And the second question is, have independent regulatory agencies done their job in the past, as they should have done, not these, but others? And so the HDZ Club supports this proposal by the Ministry of Finance to set up this as part of the Ministry of Finance, after all, nothing is the Holy Scriptures that can change in some future times. The authorisation for work, therefore, is detailedly regulated to grant authorisations for the work of authorised auditors and audit firms in the Republic of Croatia of another Member State, as well as to auditors from third countries and as reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisation for the work of the same, because, as clear rules should be given, how a person can obtain authorisation for work, the law should also define how and under what conditions these same entities may be withdrawn from the authorisation for work. Also, what is very important to me, and perhaps even one of the most important things, and when we talk about the independence of the auditors, then it is very important to strengthen the conditions for someone to get the status of an independent authorised auditor. It's very important, because this man must really have experience, he must have knowledge, he must be educated. Because if it does not, it simply cannot monitor the processes and legal changes that occur in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why it is well within the law that professional training must be performed for at least 120 hours within an uninterrupted period of three years. So, simply who doesn't do education, education, etc. He'll lose his license to work. The Ministry of Finance will also run the register and it is not only the register of authorised audit firms, but also the register of audit firms, the register of independent auditors, the register of authorised auditors, the register of auditors, the register of audit firms, the register of authorised auditors from other Member States, the register of authorised auditors from third countries and the register of entities carrying out audits in third countries. So you can see that there will be a complete picture of who participates in saying so let's collokitally in the auditory life of the Republic of Croatia, so who are by legal organisation and those who carry out that audit. So it's all going to be listed in that register. Now, what's causing a lot of trouble, and that's the duration of the audit engagement. I consider this seven-year term appropriate for the Republic of Croatia. In view of all of this, I think that when an audit company enters a single company, simply its stay for more than seven years in that company can lead to certain things that will go in some kind of casual direction with a lot of respect for everyone without calling anyone. But we simply need to prevent some things, and that's again going back to that responsibility for the revised financial report. And that's why I think this seven-year-old provision is something that's appropriate. Someone can also say it's ten years old. We can see what practice it is with other EU members, so some are 7, some are 10 years old. So it's something that doesn't need to be something that's cruelly affecting whether someone or not will uphold the law. It is simply an assessment and an assessment of the legislators, that at this point it is something that is most optimistic and should simply be appreciated, accepted as such, and they probably from the materials they had when they created this law probably based on some knowledge they came to this of seven years ago. The audit committee, therefore, must have an audit committee or body that performs the same duty in a public-interest entity with a view to achieving a high quality of statutory audit. And what is very important to me, and perhaps even most important, is that the company that performs the audit or the entity that performs the audit in a society cannot perform non-audit services in that society. It's just something that, then you lose the meaning of the audit. The audit is just assessing and assessing how and how these non-audit services have been implemented and so it will read them because there are plenty and you will see how important they are. So, non-audit services are your finances and accounting, financial analysis and control, and the inclusion of depth recording, tax advice services in the way that special regulations are arranged, other business consultations, evaluation of the value of society, assets and obligations, judicial skills, construction and economic evaluation of investment projects, maintenance of professional seminars and education, issue of professional works. Now, colleagues and colleagues, when you look at this logical thing, is that someone who comes into the audit simply can't be in any relationship with someone who runs these non-audit business with the subject where the audit is carried out. In order to avoid this law, the Croatian Audit Chamber remains very busy improving the work of its members, which is the implementation and implementation of the Croatian language of international audit standards, the adoption of national audit standards, the translation and publication of ethical standards, the establishment of the audit programme and the amount of compensation with the previous consent of the Ministry of Finance, the organisation and implementation of the audit exam, the setting of the programme of compensation and the organisation and implementation of the specific examination. So, colleagues and colleagues see that this law is in principle and that the Auditory Chamber is intended to deal with what is necessary, which is to translate from the English language or someone else, but it is mostly from English all documents that are relevant to its members and thus practically force them to adopt them. And it's good, so from the same position when we talked about non-audit services that the Auditory Chamber doesn't control its members, you won't be there for a conflict of interest. But as I said when I said that the HDZ Club supports the proposal that the Ministry of Finance be that supervisory body, we can discuss it to be like this and like this. But I repeat whether another independent regulatory body, so when we talk about budgets, when we talk about how the state is expensive, then we're going to list and that independent regulatory body we're going to count as something like that, and when we're discussing this law, then just because it shouldn't be in the Ministry of Finance, we need to start something. But what I want, I'll end it. All bodies in the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration and the Tax Jump and Customs Office and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financial Inspectorate should have the highest degree of independence and without the influence of politics because we can only guarantee that the control of financial flows in the Republic of Croatia will be at the satisfaction of both Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63007	We've got five replicas, first respected colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63008	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you said the audit was important to the owners of the company, to a peaceful dream. He would completely agree, however, with the fact that the CNB is owned and has been for 2 years, i.e. At 3 p.m., the review refuses to enter the CNB, to see business, to see how many tenders have received the chef for fine food to work with foreign peace. So here the whole system is unfairly set up, if we have one institution like the CNB that absolutely has no revision. No revisions, and the only thing we asked for in the amendments to the CNB law was to enter the audit to see the business of the CNB because we know how they behave, determine their own wages, apply themselves to employment, receive waiters and chefs for fine meals, fine drops, and obviously we as parliamentary representatives don't have to have representatives of the owners because the people chose us to represent the owners, and that is the people, we can't sleep very well because we don't know what's going on in business with the CNB. And it's sad what happened a few days ago. A week, two of us voted again on the CNB law, neither SDP nor HDZ accepted the law to come reviewing to see only business, not getting involved in monetary policy, and it's really weird what we're talking about. We, as owners of the CNB, absolutely do not allow the people to audit for business in one of the very important institutions, so here if you can answer why not audit the business in the CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63009	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63010	I'll answer you first, you asked what we're talking about here, we're talking about the Revision Act here. Comrade Bull, as I told you, if you remember when we were in that first coalition together at the club, I'll repeat that to you now. HDZ has no objection to change, but you need to change the parallel of two laws. You need to amend the CNB Act and you need to amend the State Audit Act. So that's two things that have to change parallelly. The second thing, given that EU directives require changes to the CNB law to go in communication with the central bank in Brussels. It's just facts, and I don't think there's a slow one here, so the HDZ club has nothing to do with it. Secondly, this commercial audit that we are talking about is auditing the business of the CNB among other things. I'm the last person because of all the periphery with the CNB that would have reason to protect the CNB if I wasn't going to repeat one sequence from the club when I was convinced that something had been brought in, but the government act was diametrically opposite of what was supposed to be brought in, but I'm saying, I wouldn't repeat it because I'm not one of the names and last names people, and I've never... Well, I won't now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63011	Another replica, dear fellow Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63012	It will turn out that they are bound replicas, my colleague Shucker, but it's been so long since I can't help but remind you that in that first coalition of MOST and HDZ here, you tried to plant a vote while I was sitting in that seat about the CNB, or that in the end, the HNB Act was not passed. And let's take a look at the archives of the Parliament. And I think there's also hypocrisy in the work because it's trying to fix the law on revision somewhere else until the problems inside the state and the State Audit are absolutely touching, that's all right. You always start with one special style, one wonderful law, one essential law, independence, creativity of accounting, punishment, and at one point mention who should be given jurisdiction, the Ministry of Finance or the regulatory body? And you say one interesting line, the question arises is, have independent regulatory agencies done their job? They're crying for a twist of thesis. It's amazing. So who was setting these people up? Who's been putting these people in charge for the last 20 years if you haven't? Did you put it according to professional principles or political principles? Second question, what did you do? Here you were Minister of Finance, what did you do when you saw that one of those professionals you're determining that they probably didn't do the job, what did you do when you found that out? Did you maybe remove it? Have you changed? You were a minister. One important item, too, is it possible to ask the question, has the Ministry of Finance done its job? It's obvious from Agrokor that it isn't, and besides, I might be a little cynical for the end, so I'm going to conclude, I really don't know how your entire exposure can be authentic if American diplomacy has estimated that you don't understand yourself in finance at the time you were Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63013	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63014	Look, it's nice this way when a nice, smooth gentleman is offended in gloves. But a colleague of Petrov, a mustache of terms and years. So that independent institution did its job at some point. That's one thing. The second thing, fellow Petrov, you were in power for a year, you were six months Deputy Prime Minister and you were then President of the Parliament. Your ministers could have proposed any possible and impossible laws, no one was defending you. About whether or not I understand something about it. But it's not clear to me how you understand everything, so you're a genius and I respect it, I'll never tell you that you don't understand something because in this you gave and someone understands or doesn't understand is going to evaluate someone else, but I said out of courtesy that one session of the club I won't convince and I won't convince her again because elementary home education taught me how to communicate. But when you don't have the arguments to tell someone that he didn't say something right, but that he should have said it another way, then you go through the system of insults. Yes, colleague Petrov, I said either the Ministry of Finance or an independent regulatory agency. There's no third option. And I said that anyone can think how best they think, you might think it should be an independent regulatory agency. I respect that, I don't mind that, but I said the HDZ Club supports this proposal proposed by the Ministry of Finance. But I repeat, you've been in power for a good year and a half, you've been in power for a year and a half, you've had a chance to suggest everything, and what have you been up to? And I repeat once again, look at the letter from the central bank in Brussels, and you'll see what the communication is about changing the central bank law. I'm asking you nicely, I didn't throw it to you, I listened politely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63015	Thank you. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63016	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, when you explained the delay to 7 years, then you started from a negative premise that the long term of the audited entity and the auditor could, if negative, make the situation worse. But let's go on the positive side. What you said in the opening of your debate, when you told who was in the interest of the revision being true. That audited company that operates under the laws, which actually wants its value and the securities market to grow, that it progresses. If we go from that premise then we come to different conclusions, then we see that a 10-year-old is actually not a problem. And you said rightly, the owner who doesn't need to know much about business, he wants his company to move forward. He hires managers who run the company, they hire accounting, then comes the audit. So accounting implements what the manager orders, the revision should be independent so that we review what accounting has done, but now we have a key, independent problem. What if the auditors don't do their job? If actually under the influence of someone saying what was going on in the company... And with Agrokora, it's a serious consequence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine that in the hospital the patients’ laboratory findings are frigid just to show that the hospital is very successful in treating people, which would cause the consequences for the health care system. Likewise, for the state too, those auditors who unwittingly do their job either for pressure or for ignorance or for some other reason are doing great damage to society are particularly obvious, I agree with you, let the state control but then the state takes a huge risk on itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63017	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63018	Comrade Sagar, I answer to your line, but in order to answer your line, I must remind you of a few discussions and replicas that took place this morning here. This debate simply suggests that politics wants to conduct something. That politics wants to conduct something, and that's the most dangerous thing to do, so I started my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club with three things. The importance of the audit for the owner, independence and accountability. That's three key things. But you saw how the replicas went, in which direction. When there's no arguments and no arguments for something you said, then you mentioned something. But I have an argument on that other one, too. There are reports of these various institutions, so let's be brave and reasoned, let's say here you didn't do this and this good and it cost the Croatian state so much, so much and so much. And as for an independent regulatory agency, it happened long after I was Minister of Finance, but the satisfaction of some kind of love for HDZ is so much to push everything into some HDZ time but these 7 years, my colleague, Žagar, is something in the light of experience in Croatia, etc. It tells us that maybe it's optimal time. We still don't have a tradition in some things, so ultimately, the purpose of this law is to strengthen Croatian audit societies. you, when you look at our largest companies, are still audited by foreign audit companies and consulting houses and taking a lot of money and unfortunately most of the Croatian audit companies are unable to do so. Well there used to be even a provision on the law that they can join together, go together to the competition with large Croatian companies and thus strengthen themselves because if you have financial resources, then you can better and better education and that automatically means more quality work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63019	Thank you very much. Mr. Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63020	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you have seen and now from previous replicas of colleagues, in fact when it comes to certain things, you have questioned what was about this review law, the process of monitoring the audit itself, whether an independent body at the Ministry of Finance or some new regulatory agency. So nothing was said about what would be controversial for some colleagues. And I think it's something to say and I think it's a couple of times. When you find yourself in this situation, there must be a supervisory body. Now, what should be pointed out is that this law on audit is actually about auditors, about their education and training, the fact that auditors themselves should be of interest and education and training and new methodologies related to the revision, for what? So the team is exactly what you said, the register that will be run by the Ministry of Finance, they will thus strengthen their reference, their expertise and seriousness. Of course, through what is very important, which is the independence of the auditors themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63021	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63022	My colleague Babic, two things, independence and the answer are crucial here. If you want to achieve them, you must be educated, you must follow everything that happens, not only in Croatia but in the world. Without it, you simply cannot seriously compete on the market. Therefore, with all those who are seriously working and communicating, the logical thing is that they will invest in their investment, but what worries me is, when you look at that opening part of the reasoning of this Law, when you have, when you see how many authorised auditors there are in the Republic of Croatia as many as they do, not even 50 percent of them at this time do not work. And that's what might be, at the most, because that's what shows that we still have to serve, to strengthen that audit exam. Because we're just going to eliminate, I don't see the point of someone passing an audit exam and not doing that job. Because if he's not being educated and working, he, given all the legal changes, let's just take in the last two, three years as much as there has been a change in accounting law, as many tax changes, as there have been changes in labour legislation, because you've seen here that there are no audit services and investment counseling, all expensive and you, if you're just not in the course of all this together, you can't quality review one financial report, and quality company owner or company owner, or co-owners say that, and even making certain business decisions is something that's okay. So it should be in the interest of whoever's doing that job. And that's why this law simply makes people educate, even though it should be a business goal. When I talked about creative accounting, from those who allegedly said they knew everything, they didn't realize what creative accounting meant. I mentioned it on purpose, because I knew that some people would deliberately report for the replica and that it would, you know how to peel. And you had a chance to see it. He said I was talking about creative accounting, etc. There was no man who understood what that meant. And the biggest dispute with Agrokor is exactly the positions from that so-called. Creative accounting. So that's the point of the story, but when we have to insult, then we're top-notch masters and we're selling some finesse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63023	Mr. Shuker, thank you. Let's move on with the clubs, Mrs. Goddess, at least in front of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have here the final proposal of the Revision Act. I don't know if, over the course of the year, there was as much talk as there was an audit. We've all been looking forward to the review report on Agrokor, changing channels, now it's going to be published here, or it's going to be in two days, in three days. So we all began to realize for the first time, someone more, someone less, but the importance of the revision. So other than owners, accountants, banks, and audits, they began to understand both our citizens and their importance. As important as it is, we felt and if it had been, perhaps this law had been passed before, and if the rules of that law had been respected, some things would not have been avoided, but they might not have happened to that extent. What we have changed in this law has been a lot of talk about the audit chamber. As important as any professional chamber is for a particular profession, it must be important. And that it must have certain interests, of its users and must represent them, that they must exercise their certain rights within that chamber, they must. However, there are also things that may be really better excluded from that chamber so as not to come into conflict of interest. So, personally, I think, and so do we at the club, arguing, we've come to the conclusion that it's really good for the surveillance to be shut down and that the surveillance isn't being carried out from the chamber, or that the committee isn't doing this surveillance, but that it's being in the Ministry of Finance, means the competent body formed in the Ministry of Finance. There's been a lot of talk about whether the Ministry of Finance is willing to take that responsibility. We were aware and we talked about what skills and competences auditors should also have with us, now that we are not talking about other audit houses, which carry out these supervisions, i.e. audits. To monitor, when performing the ministry, they must really be beyond that. I remember that in the first reading in the final address we received this explanation, from the representatives of the finance ministry, that this will be taken into account, that they have professional people, that they will still be teamed up and that there is certainly still a certain amount of funding to be provided for their reward, that is, their wages, which was also a lot of the same. Because someone that 7,000 kn is really hard to get a motivated and professional worker, who will control the auditory houses and simply, feels bad about it and if he comes and controls, when some things are compared. What will be achieved by this law is to strengthen the independence of audit firms, i.e. authorised auditors. As important as it is, here we were again aware and we saw and during this year, when simply some auditory house is long present in certain business entities, it is good on the other hand, that they get to know this company, that they know its entire course of business, that they know of all the difficulties they face. However, as after a certain time, they may be objectively interested, that is already a question. As much as they're made there and simply and some, let's call it friendship. And actually, friendship should be that way, that someone's controlling you and saying, look, it's not done the best. It was made in accordance with the law, but for you as the owner, it's not the best mix. It may be for this year, you might last another year, but it's a question of what's going to happen next. Here we have also had thoughts and suggestions, which is an objective period of control of a particular auditory society in a particular company. Is it 5 years, is it 7, is it 10? Personally, I consider 7 years to be an appropriate deadline, that 10 years may be too much for those reasons I've already stated before. And for five years, it would be too short just for a reason because you need to meet a certain firm, and that's still two, three years old, while you put everything together that's actually needed for one quality review. So that rotation I think is good in that period of seven years, that it's this kind of deadline that's objective. The terms of the authorised auditors and audit firms have been tightened so that the new law provides that an authorised auditor can only be employed in one company and on a full or part-time basis, but only in one matter. The audit firms must then have at least 3 employees, i.e. authorised auditors full-time. And what's still very important is the continued improvement of authorised auditors, which is over 3 years 120 hours, we think it's an appropriate time. What is regulated in Article 43 is the negotiation of legal audits with several audit companies in public-interest entities. Therefore, Article 43 is proposed that supervisory authorities authorised to monitor the business of entities of public interest whose conduct is prescribed by a specific law, may prescribe those entities to negotiate legal audit with several independent audit firms and lay down the conditions for regulating the relationship between audit firms designated to carry out the joint audit. It is therefore that for public-interest entities, which are those who meet one of the following conditions with those already set forward, which is to employ more than 5,000 workers or have an activity greater than 5 billion kuna on the last day of the financial year, they must agree a legal audit with at least 2 unrelated and independent audit companies. So it's all about being the greater independence, the greater independence and the more quality audit reports. Because in such cases, when it is present, it will be difficult for a reputable audit society to allow itself not to notice anything that others might possibly notice, and that is the reason for really every piece of paper to turn around, to take a good look at it, to have every document look at it, to really look at all aspects and especially what creative accounting is allowed, to realize that it is in accordance with legal regulations, that it is in line with international accounting standards, but that it still points to certain risks in further business. We have, and there are some additional articles that are regulated in Article 43, but there has already been a lot said and whether this law is ideal. Well, in life there are very rarely ideal situations and something can be ideal, but that he's good I believe most of us will agree. That he's better than the last one, I think we'll all agree. What we can conclude is that it is in line with EU legislation, that there is greater independence, independence and that there is even greater control of audit companies. All of this should really contribute so that we can believe in audit reports and make them better in the next period if we adhere to this review law. The HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63025	Thank you, too. Mr. Shuker was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Macar, I would like to comment with you on one thing that you said right at the beginning of your presentation and we had the chance to hear it today. So we have a revised financial report at this point top above all political topics and economics in Croatia, which is the Agrokor concert. So that report was passed, someone signed it, that report found some things. Have you noticed that in political bickering, someone is using the findings of this audit? No, I don't. Why? Because it doesn't suit him politically, because he mentions years and periods when someone else was responsible, because he says that, and that's what Mr. Ramljak explicite repeated that the revised financial report found that there was no tax debt, but someone constantly attacks the tax administration. So if they've established it, then we don't trust them, let's order them another, audited, audited financial report so that we top experts in this House can discuss it. So today was a chance when we talk about this law so we can set some examples of what it means when a job like this goes the wrong way. I'm not going to say that we understand each other, I'm not going to prejudge a few things, but at this point, it's a valid report that has observed some things. But, fellow Macar, you've heard here today in the debate and you hear every day what's said, some yellow materials are recycled that people don't even look at anymore, ask God, they're gone, but it's very important to make a sensation out of it. And we have facts, facts based on which someone is looking for a rescue for 28,000 employees in Agrokor and a hundred and a few thousand other people in the supplier. Because that audit report is the basis for someone to create a restructuring program. So now we see if this law is important and whether some of its provisions matter or not. Thank you very much, Mr. Tufeck.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63027	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63028	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, well-respected colleague Shucker, I can only sign everything you said. However, I will highlight some more things and it is I do not expect our citizens to understand audit reports. But I must admit, I don't expect our colleagues here in Parliament to analyze every item and read it. But if they don't know how to consult someone who does, I certainly expect it, and it's certainly not good to send various political messages on the wrong grounds just to get some political points. I didn't do it when we were in opposition, I don't want to do it now or in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63029	Thank you very much. In front of the National Minorities Club, Mrs. Ermina Lekaj Smackaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63030	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have before us the text of the final draft of the law on the revision where the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as the legislator of the law, is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. In this respect, we have also been presented among the contributions a statement on the compliance of the EU's draft regulation with the acquis signed by the relevant ministries. In a comparative table of compliance with these rules, we can find that the 13th chapter of the final law on audits is infringement provisions in line with the seventh chapter of the said directive. In particular, we can read the following quote in Article 16 of the Directive. The competent authorities should be able to impose administrative fines which have a deterrent effect to a certain percentage of total annual turnover in the preceding financial year in the case of legal persons or other entities. Such a goal will be better achieved if the fine depends on the financial situation of the person who committed the injury. Without prejudice to the possibility of withdrawing authorisation from an authorised auditor or an audit firm, other forms of sanctions which have an appropriate deterrent effect should also be provided for. In any event, Member States should apply the same criteria in determining the penalties to be imposed. In order to implement this specific provision of the Directive, i.e. Infringement provisions would be necessary to make the following interventions in the text of the legislative proposal itself. For example, in Article 116(1), replace the words ‘in the amount of EUR 200 000 to EUR 800,000 with the words ‘from 40 000 kuna to 10% of total annual income in the preceding financial year’. In Article 116(2), the words ‘from 50 000 kuna to 200 000 kuna’ shall be replaced by ‘from 20 000 kuna to 10% of total annual income in the preceding financial year’. In particular, the minimum estimated fine of EUR 200 000 for the audit company is extremely high in view of the amount of compensation charged for the audit services at the level of the revenue incurred by the audit firms in the Republic of Croatia and above the average salaries of authorised auditors within the companies. The lowest penalties do not reflect economic reality in the field of audit in the Republic of Croatia and will thus cause a series of bankruptcy or closures of the good part of the company before this law enters into force. The lowest amount of fines is for smaller audit firms too much burden, while some of them do not have so much total income at all. In accordance with the applicable Accounting Act and the legal obligation to audit the fines are defined in the range of 10 000 to 100 000 kuna and therefore the penalties provided for in the Final Proposal of the Audit Act are inappropriate. Following the analysis and one comparison of the infringements of applicable laws such as the Accounting Act, the Financial Business Act and the Accounting of Non-profit Organisations, the Law on Profit Taxation and other laws, we can conclude that the minimum fines are prescribed there, under these provided for in the Final Proposal of the Revision Act. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we fully support all the main objectives that the applicant wanted to achieve by drawing up this law, which are reforming the legal audit system through increasing transparency, strengthening public oversight of authorised auditors, improving the independence of authorised auditors in relation to the audited entity, etc. However, I hope that in this debate, too, I have managed to point out that there are some provisions that are necessary to comply with the EU acquis, and in this respect I will also submit written amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63031	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Gordan Maras, individual debate. He's gone? He's losing his right. And on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić will have the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, I want to thank everyone for the debate. There are certain questions mentioned here and certain dilemmas that were raised by parliamentary representatives, I originally meant to explain them all in particular, but I don't think there is any need because I initially gave quite a detailed explanation of each individual provision and each individual solution. What I certainly want to say is that, when we were making the first ones, and these final versions of the law on each of these issues, we had long and thorough discussions with the profession, within the house, with all those who know the matter, consulted equally and similar solutions throughout the outside. And we think that the solutions offered in the final bill are really optimal and we think that we have a very good law which, of course, can't be dealt with in an ideal way and reconcile some issues that may be mutually opposed to each other in cohesion, but we think that in most of these issues and many of the issues that have been raised here we have found a good and solid optimum. What is important is that the law is the goal and I think that it will certainly achieve this very important activity and this extremely important matter and certainly strengthen the quality and credibility of this activity, so audit activities. We have received a number of amendments and I will certainly say that we will consider them with good attention and that in case we estimate that something and some of them contribute to increasing quality and accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63033	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63034	Final draft law on audit, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 172. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the Labour and Solidarity Party Representatives' Club, Reformists and Independent MPs, and by representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is Željko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please. Let's go first, then, to the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63035	Your Honor, Mr. President, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63036	It becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63037	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63038	And he becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63039	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63040	And he becomes an integral part of the law. We are now going to the amendment of the respected representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63041	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The law on the right to access the information of the State administration authority is obliged to consult the public in the adoption of laws and regulations and regulations, so as to explain the reasons and objectives which are intended to be achieved by the adoption of the rules and by calling on the public to submit their proposals and opinions. At the end of the period, the body of the state administration shall be publicly visible to the received, i.e. to publish which proposals and opinions have been accepted, and for those who do not give rise to the grounds of non-acceptance. The above-mentioned amendment is considered to be excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63042	Please show off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63043	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not happy with your explanation and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63044	Then we approach the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now we move on to Amendment number two of the same MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63046	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the Regulation on the revision of public-interest entities provides for the possibility of providing certain non-audit services only for audit firms carrying out legal audits of public-interest entities. Since it is also a more stringent approach to the possibility of providing non-audit services, and the Regulation does not prescribe the same obligation for the provision of audit services to other audited entities for the provision of non-audit services to other audit firms, a solution prescribed by the applicable law has been chosen. It is important to stress that when providing these services, the audit company must take all insurance measures in order to ensure that their performance does not have an impact on the independence of carrying out the statutory audit, and this same independence will be checked within the supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63047	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63048	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Secretary of State, therefore, is defined in paragraph 1 of this Article. non-audit services provided by audit firms and associated persons. These are the most common consulting societies, i.e. various consultants. Business consultations are, and you know very well the input jobs, and often there are more income for some companies than for the audit business. That's why I find it extremely important to so-called. non-audit services and, in particular, as the transactions of finance and accounting are definitely prohibited from providing audit firms, because this is in fact a classic conflict of interest, and this is also seen in paragraph 2 of this article, which prohibits these transactions as well as tax counselling, but nevertheless in paragraph 3 of this Article, for the purposes of the exception which reads: ‘The prohibition referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article does not apply to the related companies of the audited entity and the audit company, provided that the audit firm has taken over all the insurance measures in order to ensure that the provision of the services referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article does not affect the independence of the performance of the statutory audit. So I don't agree with your argument and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63049	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, so let's get to Amendment Three.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63050	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of the Regulation on the revision of public-interest entities prescribe that a public-interest entity is obliged to appoint an authorised auditor or an audit firm for initial engagement of at least one year and that the engagement and combination of that engagement must not, with its renewal, exceed a maximum period of ten years. Following that, the Member State has the possibility to set a period of rotation and less than 10 years, which national discretion was used by this law to model some other Member States such as Poland, Bulgaria, etc. and other regulations in the Republic of Croatia in the field of credit institutions, insurance companies, etc. It's also prescribed a 7-year rotation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63051	Representative Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63052	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you won't believe this, but this time I'm surprised by your logical explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63053	You're not asking for a vote then? Thank you very much. We have an amendment number four.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63054	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of that Article of the Law prescribe the exercise of supervision at least once every three years in the case of an authorised auditor and an audit firm carrying out a statutory audit of public-interest entities, i.e. at least one time in six years in the case of an authorised auditor and an audit firm carrying out the statutory audit of other entities. It does not exclude the possibility of indirect surveillance being carried out continuously by collecting, checking and analysing reports, notices and data, and by monitoring, collecting, checking and analysing documentation, notifying data obtained at the request of the Ministry of Finance from other sources in accordance with the purpose and scope of supervision, and that the surveillance is carried out as regular or extraordinary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63055	Here are the MPs for the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63056	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't agree with your argument, because in fact, here the word is added: "uninterrupted or continuous" because supervisory must be continuous, i.e. an uninterrupted process, because it only makes sense to make a provision in Article 79 of this Act which speaks of indirect supervision which is normally continuous because it is based on continuous collection, verification and analysis of reports, notifications and data from audit firms which are obliged to draw up and/or deliver to the Ministry of Finance within the prescribed deadlines or at the request of the Ministry of Finance. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63057	Thank you. Please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so let's move on to Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63058	The amendment is not accepted. The final draft law provides for higher amounts of fines compared to the current Audit Act, respecting the main objectives of the revision directive, which highlight a more effective sanctioning system in order to strengthen public oversight of authorised auditors and audit firms with a view to detecting, deterring and preventing infringements of applicable rules in the context of the provision of audit services.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63059	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63060	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I disagree with your argument. According to Directive No. 2014/56 The EU is well aware of this, the competent authorities should be able to impose administrative fines which have a deterrent effect to a certain percentage of total annual turnover in the preceding financial year in the case of legal persons and other entities. Such a goal will be better achieved if the fine depends on the financial situation of the person who committed the injury. The lowest estimated fine of EUR 200 000 for the audit firm is extremely high in view of the amount of compensation charged for the audit services at the level of the revenue incurred by the audit firms in the Republic of Croatia and of the average salaries of authorised auditors within the State. The lowest penalties do not reflect economic reality in the field of audit in the Republic of Croatia and will cause bankruptcy or closure of a large part of the company before the law is passed. The lowest amount of fines is for smaller audit firms too much burden and some, and you should know very well, they don't even have as much income as you prescribe. According to the applicable Accounting Act, the legal obligation to audit fines is defined by a range of 10 to 100 thousand kuna, and for this reason the penalties provided for by the draft Audit Act are simply not appropriate. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63061	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to the 6th Amendment of the Last Amendment of the Honored Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63062	The amendment is not accepted. The matter is similar or very similar to the previous amendment so that the explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63063	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I also disagree with your argument, and my argument is the same as what you said before. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63064	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He did not receive the required number of votes or this amendment. We are now going to the amendments, two amendments to the Labour and Solidarity Party's Club of Representatives, reformists and independent MPs, Amendment 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63065	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63066	Is anyone going to be obvious about that? If you don't need to vote or what? Comrade Maras, please behave yourself. Okay, you're not giving up anything, are you? Okay. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63067	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as in the previous three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63068	Give up this amendment, too. Okay. Thank you very much. Then we can move to a vote, I am voting on the final draft of the Audit Act. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 25 abstentions and 16 votes against the adoption of the Audit Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63069	We now move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 229. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal should be discussed as I said in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here with us and for this law State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63070	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, an emergency procedure, primarily for the reasons why we want it to come into effect as early as 1.1 next year. The system of taxation of motor vehicles in the Republic of Croatia is governed by this law, the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, which harmonizes the system of taxation of motor vehicles with the acquis of the EU. This law regulates two tax forms and a special tax on motor vehicles, so-called registration tax and special tax on the acquisition of used motor vehicles. By amending and supplementing the laws which entered into force as part of the full tax reform on 1 January 2017, the Republic of Croatia has maintained the registration system of taxation of motor vehicles according to values and ecological criteria by making the level of the specific tax to be determined according to carbon dioxide emissions CO2 a standalone criterion which has ceased to be attached to the value of the motor vehicle, which makes the tax system itself significantly reduced. These current proposed amendments and amendments to the laws change both these tax forms, and the objective of amending and supplementing the laws is to increase the simplicity and transparency of the taxation system in both cases. What is also important is to highlight especially in the context of the particular tax on motor vehicles of this so-called so-called ‘. the registration tax is that, in the meantime, since the entry into force of the last amendments and additions, and this happened in June of this year, Commission Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The EU's 715/2007 of Parliament and of the Council on the type-approval of motor vehicles in relation to emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles, i.e. the euro 5 and the euro 6 which introduces so-called legislation in the EU. Globally-coordinated test procedure for light vehicles, etc. WLTP or new CO2 measurement system. Since it has been established that information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions obtained by testing the vehicle in accordance with the current... system is no longer satisfactory and no longer show actual emissions. In this respect, the partial application of the WLTP entered into force on 1 September of this year, while full application is expected on 1 January 2019. This means that the old... system, which was essentially based on laboratory measurements, has been replaced by a new type-approval procedure or a WLTP whose application provides more precise and credible data on CO2 emissions. As a rule, the new measurement system provides more amounts of CO2 emissions and in this transition phase until full implementation... of a system that negatively affects the position of new motor vehicles, so new models that come into the market. Therefore, it is undeniable that the new system will give the measure much more precise CO2 emissions than previously required by the timely adaptation of the national motor vehicle taxation system to a specific tax. In this respect, and for the sake of normative clarity, it is proposed to regulate more clearly the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the level of the specific tax which the power is and is already normised by existing legal provisions, but these amendments are further regulated and further regulated and strengthened by the legality of such future regulations. It is particularly important because of the new way of measuring CO2 because it is a process that is completely in the hands of the manufacturer and the government has no influence whatsoever. This is also important since it facilitates the achievement of the objective of gradually increasing the impact of CO2 emissions on taxation and reducing the impact of vehicle values. This system has been applied for years in harmonised excise duties, i.e. spirit, energy and alcohol in our national legislation, and in the same way, the regulation changes the higher levels of the specific tax on motor vehicles and in some other Member States. In doing so, the Implementing Regulation will regulate the level of the specific tax on motor vehicles by respecting the need to reduce the total tax burden and, among other things, to create more favourable tax treatment of motor vehicles with more recent and environmentally acceptable technologies. In the second part of taxation, therefore, taxation of the acquisition of used motor vehicles is proposed instead of a special tax on the acquisition of second-hand motor vehicles to pay for the administration of the fee when registering the vehicle on behalf of the vehicle acquirer in order to simplify and shorten the administrative procedure of carrying out all the operations in one place. So it's not about the new imposition, it's about the transformation of the fee paid when we get used motor vehicles. So we have the current situation that, when we change the ownership of used motor vehicles, the current procedure is done in three or de facto in four steps. The first is after the signing of the contract of sale, going to the public notary to verify the signature, the seller on the contract of sale, then going to the establishment of the Tax Administration to pay a special tax at a rate of 5% of the market price at the time of the acquisition of the vehicle, so a payment is received, a payment is received, a payment is then received to go to the place where the post office, FINA or the bank is paid, and after the payment is re-arried to the Tax Administration which issues the clause that the tax is paid and is subsequently left to the police station for registration of the vehicle. These proposed amendments to the law would shorten the procedure and reduce it to one place and leave it to the authority responsible for the registration of motor vehicles to register the motor vehicle and pay the administrative fee according to the age of the vehicle and the force of the engine. Therefore, there is no longer any assurance of the contract with the public notary and the whole procedure is carried out in one place, the application process, the calculation and payment of charges on the acquisition of used motor vehicles is accelerated and simplified, and the costs are reduced. As a rule, taxpayers are expected to have a reduction in public taxation, a projection of the total revenue from the payment of the administrative fee when acquiring a used motor vehicle according to the criteria of the age of the vehicle and the power of the motor of the vehicle is less than the total specific tax on used motor vehicles, which amounted to around 193 million kuna in 2016, is therefore expected to be reduced by around 90 million kuna, i.e. a reduction in the burden on taxpayers. The same is expected to save and reduce the burden on the IRS and the IRS themselves, thus reducing operational costs. Officials who have done special tax collection jobs so far will be able to devote themselves to new jobs. As I said, the rate of the fee will be calculated according to the power of the engine and the age of the vehicle and in kunas per kilowatt in 12 classes. The year of age of the motor vehicle used shall be calculated according to the year of manufacture of the vehicle or year of age of the motor vehicle used, and the current year shall be reduced by the year of manufacture. And if the current year is equal to the year of production, the vehicle is considered to be one year old. Here are the basic changes and additions to the law, as I said the law goes towards simplification, greater transparency, but also the expected reduced tax burden in the future. We therefore expect the support of this law in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63071	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. First Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63072	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. One of the reforms implemented at the very beginning of the mandate was a reform of the tax system which was now both simpler and fairer and at the very beginning of the mandate, almost 16 or 16 laws were passed, reduced on the total tax burden of income of nearly 1.5 billion kuna, nearly 560 thousand citizens avoided tax scissors. And now we have a new law, a law on special taxes on motor vehicles. For the sake of the citizens themselves, we should say this law and such laws should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament concerning all citizens, and it is as good as the administrative reduction and the bureaucratic reduction as you have said, it is taxed as much as we saw in the bill one income of 193 million kuna, now it will be around 100 million, so 90 million kunas are taxed. What is also important, and this is not to be ignored by the fact that the Ministry of Finance has suffered a certain cost in any way when issuing a solution. Now that cost is actually going to go away. So we welcome the adoption of this law, and I think it will fall very well on the fertile soil of the citizens themselves, because this part of which you spoke about is being solved in one place and so much savings and time and taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63073	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. By supporting this bill, I would point to a provision that I hold should be amended, and in that context I have submitted the amendment. I would ask you to be so free, to look at Article 4 of the Act in question, which amends Article 26 of the existing law and in which you look at the proposed paragraph 7 of point (c). It states that the exemption from the payment of the administrative fee refers to the acquisition of the motor vehicle by giving, among other things, the motor vehicle is given to the spouse. However, taking into account Articles 11 and 2. Family law in which the marriage community is equal to the extramarital community, Article 60(1). The Life Partnership Act, which has the effects of a life partnership in defeating matters, is equated with the effects of marriage and Article 4(2) of the Life Partnership Act, which has the same effect of an informal life partnership as the effects of an extramarital community, please, I urge you to consider the proposed amendment in order, in addition to the exceptions relating to mates, the same exemption, in accordance with the pre-quoted provisions of the Family Law and the Life Partnership Act, would also apply to the extramarital community, the life partnership and the informal life partnership. I would also point out that, for example, such a provision exists in Article 95. The income tax law where, as an exemption for dependent family members, it is a basis that reduces income tax precisely as tax-based applies to those forms of living communities in which our citizens live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63075	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63076	Thank you very much. Dear Parliamentarian, what I can say is that with due consideration we will consider the amendment and see... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63077	Thank you very much. Third replica, Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63078	Dear Vice President, thank you. Secretary of State, assistants. I'm only interested in two things, you can do this in the final address, we see that the substantial income is reduced precisely to this law, meaning from 193 to some 100 are forecasts, so I'm curious whether the ministry was doing an analysis of whether these other economic activities that would be encouraged by this law would replace it and about these hundreds of employees who would be freed from the administrative burdens around this tax, whether the ministry was considering it. I.D.'d to the IRS and the others to other jobs, and what are these officers going to do tomorrow, have they thought about it in advance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63079	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary and Associates. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles. So these proposed amendments will adapt Croatia's legislative framework to the European acquis since the European Commission's Gas Emissions Regulation came into force in the middle of this year. This regulation introduces new globally coordinated... or the test procedure for measuring carbon dioxide emissions, which provides more precise and credible data in the gas emissions, since it has been established that the information on fuel consumption and CO2 emissions obtained by testing is no longer satisfactory, no longer show actual emissions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that the old system, which was materially based on laboratory measurements, is replaced by a new type-approval procedure, which provides more precise and credible data on CO2 emissions. In the case of a special tax on the acquisition of used vehicles, it is proposed to replace the tax by a administrative fee which would be paid for the registration of that vehicle, which is certainly a simplification, the procedure and we have seen here and the introduction that this will reduce the total tax burden. As indicated on behalf of the applicant, the procedure is now going through several steps. First the buyer and seller of the used vehicle, so they have to make a sale contract. They have to verify it with a public notary. The clearance costs about 50 kuna. If, according to data actually available on the Internet, around 59477 used cars were sold in Croatia in 2016. The simple calculation turns out that public notebooks on contract certificates have received about three million kunas. The second step is after they have concluded the contract and have verified it with the public notary the second step is their departure, so in the Tax Administration where they have to pay the tax and the amount of the 5% tax on the value of the vehicle and the Tax Administration in this context we say we do not care how much the buyer paid for the used vehicle and in what condition they are already defined according to the tables. So here, the tables that are defined on the basis of these tables are actually accounted for a certain amount of taxes, because in most cases, when companies have certain cars, they can isolate it after five years, spend and sell it on a particular market and precisely so that it does not actually reduce that tax base, so tax administration has so far been used with those tables, which it has defined, which is a certain market price, which is actually paying that amount of tax. And somewhere that amount is about 1,000 kn. So the IRS issued a tax cut solution to be paid to the post office and then the buyer goes to the Ministry of the Interior, reports a bought vehicle on his own behalf, for which he has to pay another 35 kn, we still have those 15 kn tags. So all activities are now united into one, which we think is good and is in this context and I support this law. In the case of a vehicle registration authority, the administrative fee to be charged on the basis of the age of the vehicle will be paid. So since there is no longer this table, since in this context the method of tax collection is abolished, according to these tables that have been used, this administrative fee will now be paid on the basis of production, means the year of production and engine power, means expressed in kuna, means by kilowatt hours, in 12 different classes. And it seems to me that this height will be determined by a regulation. Thus, according to the Ministry of Finance, a total of around 209,000 cases of taxation were recorded during 2016, i.e., solutions issued on the basis of a specific tax on the marketing of used vehicles, of which around 16457 were released. The income of this was around 193 million kuna. It's said here that this part will be reduced by some by double, so somewhere around 100 million, 90 to 100 million kunas will be in the future. As was also spoken, the law itself defines 2 tax forms, is the first special tax on vehicle matrons, these are excise duties and in this law is also left, that actually the Government Regulation regulates the issue of special tax, i.e., motor vehicles, which we consider to be one flexibility, which still needs to remain in this law or government, actually allows for the change of excise duties, depending on the situation on the market, that it does not have to go into changes to legislative proposals every time. So it's a certain freedom that remains in this law. And that, that particular tax will, I say, be replaced by that administrative fee. To see the actual potential of the car market in Croatia, somewhere, before the crisis, means 2008. The market was somewhere in 88255 new vehicles. So that was some kind of potential of the Croatian market, so 88,000 new vehicles. Since then, because of recessions until somewhere, the crisis was actually 2013. That's when only 27802 vehicles were sold. And now you see how the market went, how the revenues went into the state budget itself, and how the recession had a strong effect on the car market, especially those dealing with the trade team and all the others involved. So almost three times actually fell the car market from 88000 somewhere to 27000. What has happened in the last 10 months in this year is some data that is sold somewhere around 45128 new passenger cars, which is somewhere an increase of 19% compared to the same period in 2016. So that's when it was sold somewhere around 37805, here we're talking about new vehicles. So, this part of the market, not only did it fall, the market for new cars, we know that our age, our fleet, it seems to me that there have been some research, that we have one of the older fleets in Europe, so our citizens, because of our low income, that is, because of the inability, the low wage possibilities, it seems to me to be our fleet for over 10 years. But here, with this law itself, the question is whether there will be so much reduction, because we know what a vehicle is, and so defined, which is more CO2 emissions and the older, the question of whether it will actually pay and what it is, that it should actually pay more, and not, and that we should encourage, vehicles that are less polluting the environment, so that generally when we look at this, this law, we support, especially because the whole of this process is being reduced and replaced by an administrative fee. However, the question arises whether it will ultimately be cheaper and whether we want it to be cheaper, especially if we have vehicles that are older and which emit more CO2, and we see that the European Commission, in fact, has been changing this process, so we saw a few years ago, that even some companies from Germany have been paying large, very large fines paid, because they actually misrepresented a particular CO2 emissions on the market, so probably accordingly, they are actually more rigorous measures on their own. So the SDP Club will support this bill of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63081	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lalovac, you mentioned something about oscillation, car procurement in Croatia and how much was moving from 18000 present, 40,000 to 10 months. I just have to point out, you've also mentioned this age of our vehicles, normally which affects traffic and road safety and I think that certain research that the ministry has done, and probably the secretary of state and assistant will refer to it, in the final presentation, shows that these are precisely these measures and tax reform itself, which is being carried out encourages our citizens and has already shown influence and has shown that in the last year more and more imports of cars younger than 10 years. So I think it's a good trend that we can't stop and that this law will definitely encourage us to move forward, so I think we're going in a good direction, but here, congratulations and you that you recognize and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63083	Thank you very much. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a respected colleague, we all have the intensity, that on our roads, we actually have younger vehicles, not only because they're more specific, comfortable and quality, but also in that way, and that we have less CO2 emissions, so I think it's more correct to take, in fact, how many years of production and what kind of emissions than certain tables that used back then for that tax payment, but you know how with certain tables, you have to come up with some value. It seems to me that these were those plates of the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia which the Tax Administration later used. And we think that this is quite correct that how old the vehicle is set to kilo, that if we care more about the environment, we hope that this protection of the environment is and Croatia is a country that has a clean environment, so that it stays that way. We will see how in the future the application of this law means so far we support and commend this part where the administration is reduced and it would be good to reduce in some other ways these steps that certainly make for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63085	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, Mr Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63086	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear guests. Today, we are facing changes to the Motor Vehicles Act, which primarily deals with excise duties, and at the very beginning should be said that Croatia is making an annual budget of around 840 million kuna from excise duties, of which about 200 million from used vehicles. Of these 200 million of these amendments to the bill, the government is thinking of giving up 100 million, meaning that the amount will be halved, and therefore the excise duties on used cars will be lower by about 300 to 700 kuna on average. The government also intends to simplify red tape so that people will have to spend a little less time registering vehicles or transferring them and will also release a part of the staff so that they do not have to do the job. Following these improvements, we can say that this law is fine and that we from the Living Wall will support it, however, it is necessary to say that this law does not essentially solve the problem completely again, but solves it only partially and that it is not on the trail of what the Government has promised, and is particularly not on the trail of what would be useful and necessary for Croatian society as a whole. In a simple dictionary, the government once again boasts about the quantity rather than about quality. Because in fact, the government said it would cheap the excise on new cars, and those were the key promises that citizens expect, and we see that all the time it's going to be going to make used cars cheap for their price, and that the price of new cars is going up. So we could say that it is poured from hollow to empty, and to the benefit of certain interesting lobbies, and to the harm of citizens as it has always been in everything that has been done by the government. In order to further strengthen these claims, I can state official statistics that there are a million and a half registered cars in Croatia, of which more than a million are over ten years old. So two-thirds of the Croatian fleet is over ten years old. Cars are usually 13 years old on Monday and we are among the worst in the EU. When we look at the ratio for 2016, for example. We see that about 60 thousand used cars and about 44 thousand new cars have been sold in Croatia. We should compare that figure to the year 2008 which they usually call the pre-crisis year when 90,000 cars were sold in Croatia. So in 2008 it was sold 90, and in 2016 only 44, we see that in 2016 we failed to reach half of what we had in 2008. However, statistics show poor shares, in 2008, private buyers bought 60% of cars, and only 60% of these cars were used 10%. In 2016, private customers bought only 30% of new cars or a total of 13.5 thousand, and the number of used has increased to 60%. So here we see that there have been major changes, that the number of cars sold has dropped badly, that at the same time citizens as individuals are increasingly buying cars, and if they buy them, then they buy used cars rather than new ones. So these excise duties that are now shrinking are not on the trail of improving this situation, but these excise duties give wind in the trends that we've just listed, which are not good. That the government is running a completely bad policy towards motor vehicles is also seen as having completely abolished any subsidies on hybrid cars, gas cars and electric cars. I would like to point out that two million electric cars are currently being sold in Europe, and that by 2030, according to the Paris Agreement's objectives, it intends to sell 140 million electric cars worldwide. The government, since it does not provide incentives, allowed the number of sales of these cars to Croatia to be significantly reduced and sold in 2017 by letter and by 13 electric cars or on average 1.1 per month in Croatia. Are the data we should brag about? Are these measures that Croatia must be satisfied with? And why do such trends arise? So such trends arise because it is clear that the government is suppressing the sale of new cars. The government's goal is not to sell new cars. Let's just see how all cheaper cars have been collected since the 1.1th tax reform. Let's say Toyota Yaris of 1.1 costs thousands of kunas. Renault Clio 2300 kuna, Kia Rio 3500 kuna, Citroen C3 3800 kuna, Dacia new 4400 kuna, means on one hand the government takes the citizens 3, 4 thousand kuna and now gives them 300 kuna discount on excise duties. That's the logic that I've often talked about as when colonizers came to America, we give you glassers and you give us gold, so it's given a lot less than it's taken. The government will, of course, say that, they've collected more expensive cars, they're not just picking up these cheaper ones. But let's see how many of those expensive cars are sold. Here if you didn't know last year 80 Land Rovers, 40 Porsches, 6 Jaguars and 1 Cadillac and 1 Roys Roys. So because of 90 cars, the government is pretending that it has now turned out to be socially sensitive, that it and that 90 customers so expensive cars have raised excise duties as if they were interested in Croatian citizens and that they will ever be able to buy such expensive cars. We still have examples that speak of the harm of government policy, which is, for example, that in Croatia very high excise duties are paid on cars in general and that VAT is then paid on them. Here's the price, for example. One Suzuki Swift without giving is 55 thousand kuna, 55 thousand kuna is its price, but then the state adds about 30,000 kunas of excise duties and VAT to the price. Which means that in Croatia, at the basic price of the basic price, 32% is given to the state. So from one car price, we give 32 percent to the state. As much as we give in neighbouring countries, as given in EU Member States, it is not necessary to believe or specifically mention that these amounts are much smaller than they are in Croatia. For example, 19% of total car prices are given to the state in Germany and everything else represents the price of the car. I should even say that in Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and many EU countries, excise duties are not charged at all. So there's no excise charge, there's no use for any new ones. See for example. This situation, here, we also have official statistics. How much is Golf in Croatia, how much is Toyota Corola in Croatia and how much is it in neighbouring countries. The policy of excise duty of the government represented by Mr. Tufekcic, here. In Slovenia, Toyota Corola is cheaper than in Croatia. In Hungary, golf is cheaper 8 thousand kuna and Toyota is 18 thousand kuna. In the Czech Republic, golf is cheaper 18 thousand kuna and Toyota is as low as 27 thousand kuna. In Serbia golfing 14,000, Toyota Corola 21,000. The same thing is in Bucharest, the same thing is in Warsaw, the same thing is in Moscow, cars are cheaper everywhere than in us. And should I mention again that wages are higher, that the standard is higher, that GDP growth is higher. Why does the government do this, so why does she come with a bill like this to the Parliament? She comes because she goes on the so-called arm. Fleet vehicles primarily rent car houses and exporters who buy large cars, keep them for 6 months in their possession and then have to spend it because it is such a law. So, for example, during the tourist season, rent and car houses have 2.5 thousand cars, as soon as the 2000 season passes, or export companies so register a car for one day in Croatia and then export it from Croatia, but this shows us as a growth in sales, such data. So that data is fake, that data is haired, that data doesn't reflect the real state. The real situation is that in Croatia it is sold to citizens, so I repeat once again 13.5 thousand new cars. Therefore, the question arises, Mr. Tufekcic, whether these new excise duties will increase the sales of new cars, will not. Will these new excise duties increase road safety? How many people die on roads in the EU? Five per 100,000 inhabitants. How many die in Croatia? Eight per 100,000 inhabitants. So in Croatia we have 60% more victims on the roads than in other EU members. Who's to blame? Those who propose laws like this. Yeah, you're also guilty of road mortality. I know it seems uncomfortable to you, but it's like, people drive new cars, they have more technically correct cars, they do their brakes well, I don't know they have good tires, etc., but I'm sure traffic would be less. But our government has such a tax policy instead of giving citizens lower taxes and then making these lower taxes more sales, i.e. a higher tax increase, the government is going to raise taxes to citizens and lower taxes to stakeholders in order to sell less and ultimately earn less. But why? Because it's in their interest because they're connected to these stakeholders. Yeah. And not only in this case, of course, but also in many others. If, therefore, the government would really like to increase the consumption of new cars, fill the budget, increase road safety, it should also introduce order for technical checks and vehicle registrations. We have cases that the cost of highways in Croatia is paid four times. Watch out four times. You have to pay road charges during the technical examination, you have to pay road charges in gasoline twice for roads and for Croatian highways twice and you still have to pay a special fee for roads when buying a new car. Four times. And then after that, the government would charge you tolls for blood tolls, if we had the most expensive toll in Europe on certain shares, to charge you a bridge, to charge you a tunnel, to charge you the ferry at the prices of which your head spins. And then what does it all end up paying me through that excise charge? I'll tell you what we pay for. We pay for the coloring of the tunnel, we pay for the withdrawal of money from the Croatian highways, we pay for the government's rolling stock for which we saw that this year they will spend 42 million kuna, we pay for the travel expenses of Mr. Tufekčić and his company because they have no problem with buying new cars, they have new cars that also have drivers who have drivers available and 24 hours a day. Here's Mr. Bukarica's car 24 hours a day and a driver. ... Don't get in my word! [[-Bukarica raider, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63087	Mr. Bunjac, don't talk to Mr. Bukarica because he's not the subject of the debate, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63088	So we just heard that Mr. Bukarica is not the subject of the debate and works in the Parliament. Who the hell is he here? What is he? St. Francis can't remember him? Please, don't make any difference between Croatian citizens, you do it all the time, we always have privileged citizens and citizens who can't sound. All citizens are in equal status, and Mr. Bukarica and Tufekčić and the last poor man who digs through the trash can, enough of that. Now we won't mention sacred cows in the Parliament. Therefore, there is a legitimate concern that no one will buy new cars in Croatia anymore. Thanks to what? Thanks to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63089	Thank you, you're done, sir. You will now have the opportunity to respond to Mr. Bačić, but this is not the way I address you. I won't allow you to contact the people who work in the administration in Parliament because I can't answer you. Because I can't answer you! ... You don't care? ... [[/The Intruder Bunjac, you don't understand.]] I know, but you were breaking it, not me. [[/The Intruder Bunjac, you don't understand.]] I'm sorry, but I didn't give you a warning. Now I'm giving you a warning. Here you go, you requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have a warning, please. Mr. Bunjac, those who cannot answer you can't be the subject of your pulsism. ... And what do you want to know anyway? [[/The Intruder Bunjac, you don't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Bacic. You won't? Okay. Mr. Sagar, here you are in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63090	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, it's an important law, talking about two things the Secretary of State said in the opening statement and the predecessors said. He's talking about paying a special tax on registration, talking about paying taxes when buying a used car. And that's the essence of this law. He in this second part when we talk about used cars to greet her, so instead of tax he introduces the administrative fee paid, you don't actually have to go to the public notary, but when the contract is concluded, with that contract goes to the authorised person for registration, is it the police or the station for the technical examination, I think it's possible for both, there is registration and what's important to stress that it will be 50% reduced, these are projections. The years so far or last year, 200 million kuna, are now planned to receive 100 million kuna. And that's to say hello. On the one hand, the administration reduces the need for citizens to go to the notebooks and costs, and on the other hand reduces the amount itself. However, in this first part there is a particular dispute, not only is it connected to the Republic of Croatia, they have existed since it was established, it was mentioned by one of the predecessors, when it was found that the leading car manufacturers mutate, so to speak or cheat on the tests of the release of harmful gases, and then it was actually seen that some steps had to be taken and actually the technology changed, the method of reckoning. And now we've come up with one problem that I see is from the technical side then manifest and financially. So the key element for determining the specific tax on motor vehicles is the release of carbon dioxide emissions. For the greenhouse effect, from that point of view, that's understandable. And then it happens that middle-class cars or those cars that had a slightly higher level of release according to the new methodology because previous laboratory tests provided data for laboratory conditions. So not in real terms. Taking into account the actual driving conditions, it then increased to 8 to even 30% of the carbon dioxide emissions, and then it happened that cars that were in the middle or lower class had accumulated significantly compared to the current price. And I don't think that's good. However, the Republic of Croatia does not have much space because there are other harmful gases to be released. It's like nitrogen oxides. You see, there was even a time of absurdity. I think that since 1.1 this year, something has changed, because media reports have been about it, a colleague of Bunjac has said that expensive luxury cars have even been cheaped according to the first initial calculations. It even happened, I don't know if it's fixed. I read something later that it was fixed or it's still that way. Imagine those cars that are cheaper they have significantly collected, and expensive, luxurious cars that have power over 500 horsepower even in that first version are cheap. So, about this first part, and that's a special tax on motor vehicles. I think the Ministry of Finance still has to see for the future what they're going to do here, because if we're just watching the CO2 show, then we've got a lot, there's a series of problems. Take these stop start devices that are installed in cars that are shut down when stopping the car at a traffic light or somewhere. So it even turns out that they're actually growing the level of CO2 emissions. On the one hand, it saves fuel, and on the other hand it increases the level of carbon dioxide release. And I say in smaller cars where that level is slightly higher, and then at the price of the car is actually relatively high. In the end, I don't want to be too long on this. This legislative proposal should certainly be supported in particular in the second part where every discharge of citizens should go in this way to tax the citizens especially in terms of getting used cars here. What may be a danger is that imports of used cars, that people do not rather decide to import used cars, but to buy a new car that for those previous reasons is now somewhat more expensive. The Ministry of Finance must find that solution because the rolling stock in the Republic of Croatia has become obsolete. The purchasing power of people is, of course, low and should be seen by tax solutions, so that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia not only because of CO2 emissions, but above all for the safety of our citizens in transport can obtain as safe and better vehicles as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63091	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac asked for a replica. He's gone. Mr. Ante Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles. Here I am pleased that most of the clubs that have been exposed have agreed to support this proposal, the final draft of the law. So this law regulates two tax forms and that is a special tax on motor vehicles, i.e. Registration taxes. A special tax on the acquisition of used motor vehicles means it includes two of our institutions from the Ministry of Finance. It's customs and IRS. This law is one item in a series of proposals and laws as part of a full tax reform that has been in force since 1 January 2017. And the Republic of Croatia has maintained the registration system of taxation of motor vehicles of course according to the value and ecological criteria. As we implement the tax reform, however, the regulations of the Commission of the European Parliament and of the Council were amended in June with regard to type-approval of motor vehicles in relation to light passenger and economic vehicles and EU legislation since June imports of so-called a globally harmonised test procedure for light vehicles and a new CO2 measurement system, which we had the opportunity to hear from the Secretary of State. So we stop using this net New European Driveling Cycle system, which is mostly based on laboratory measurements and we move on to a new system that provides more precise and credible data which is normally commendable and not only linked through the Ministry of Finance but will have influences and is interesting for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 we can also see the statistical and number of registered vehicles in Croatia, and how much income there is from that specific tax and it amounts to some 190, here are almost 194 million kuna. And what we heard from the secretary of state and what we have in the materials is that the income from this tax itself is going to decrease by 50%, i.e. for some 90 million kunas. It is important to stress that in this law it means the most important thing is, among the most important items is that we have a different model of calculation which is much more precise about CO2 emissions. It's now being transferred to the producers themselves. So the government of the Republic of Croatia has no influence, and we can see the effects of the changes, we see the effects of this law itself that have been in the last year, and it is also related to the import and sale of cars. We see more and more sales and imports of younger-generation cars, meaning under the age of 10 that are much technologically advanced. And the law should also commend that we did not mention it, and that is that a new category of precisely organic cars, hybrid and electric that have their own system and their advantages has been introduced. And normally this is the same direction that it's going to go in and one way in as much supply as possible of exactly eco-friendly cars. Looking at the whole of the system and the synergy effect of this tax discharge measure, some other changes are expected as well as in the budget discussion of the last weeks. So we see that there's a big difference, so in 100 million kunas that won't pay more than this tax. But the Ministry of Finance has its calculations on how much this law will bring some new economic activities with which we will definitely transfer that gap between this hole that will happen in the income of this tax. And normally a segment is important to highlight, which is administrative discharge, not only of traders, but of administrative discharge is also of our entire administration and administration. In fact, what I asked the secretary of state, in the replica of the initial presentation, is interesting that with this we will have 98, if we have 98 of the IRS, we will have 98 new employees, i.e. employees working, but in the system, who will no longer be in charge of the administration, related to this tax. And they would simply have to be transferred to new responsibilities, so that he had 98 new employees, who will largely dissipate the tax administration system. In fact, it is changing exactly, this part of the business tax is being introduced and the payment of the administrative fee, on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have a greater effect. Because by regulation itself, it can change that. And I think it's much faster and more efficient. We have seen in the presentation of government representatives, this faster and shorter process than purchases, vehicles, how it was in this old system and how it will be since 1.1.2018. So we simply skip some steps, our citizens know what it is to buy, a new, but used vehicle, they know how much it is, if someone lives in bigger cities, they know how much time they'd spend on it, running from the public notebook to the IRS, then to the police administration, to the registration of the vehicle itself. Here, since 1.1. we must definitely highlight and warn our citizens, that it will be much simpler and that the whole process itself will be in the place where the vehicle is registered, so we are kicking out of this series and public notebooks and the Tax Administration and simply at the place of registration all that is necessary. It is important to stress, this administrative fee, Art. 15. you can see the exact items, who will be everything except paying this administrative fee and it is important that this segment, when prescribing, is exempt from paying the administrative fee, is related to the inheritance. So the basic intention was to pay only one fee, inheritance tax and gifts or administrative fee, which is the same newspaper. And the effect of this law itself, on the state budget, we saw we had a chance to discuss it, so there's no need to provide some extra funding, but we're going to make 90 million kuna less in the state budget, which will normally have its own influence, but I have to stress the disbursement of our citizens who will greatly feel it when they get their vehicles. Why are we passing this law by emergency procedure? I think we all agreed on that, too, and it's important that this law starts from 1.1.2018. is just doing continuous economic activity and that the full tax reform continues, so that the HDZ Club will support that law, and I see other clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63093	Thank you very much. Before I give the right to two replicas, I would like to welcome students and pupils from the elementary school in Končanica, it is a Czech elementary school. They have no opportunity to see many MPs, but at least their representative of the Czech minority is present here. Hello. ... We have two replicas. [[Applause.]] The first replica, Mrs. Ljubica Makismchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63094	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, I have listened carefully to your debate and, of course, I agree with everything you have said, but here we know that the amendments and additions to this law continue with the implementation of the tax reform. We see that there is a shortening administrative process in the purchase of used cars, where there is really no longer a need for a signature with a public notary, but with a much easier procedure going into realisation. What I would particularly welcome is in this article, where 9-seat motor vehicles reduce the amount of special taxes by 75%, i.e. for motor vehicles, from 8 seats is reduced to 50%, which is one in a series of measures that will certainly help us in the demographic recovery that is one of the most important measures of our government. However, I will also point out that, in full tax reform, we had taxes on road motor vehicles. It is true and God it was the income of the county, but we as the County of Brod Posavina, we had up to 3 million kunas, unpaid claims, but it is now 5 million kunas, certainly taxes received by counties, i.e., my county, which is certainly important, especially, for the impoverished counties, such as Slavonian. But here, too, you would welcome this provision that hybrid vehicles are freed 100% of that and of course, here's just to make it clear to me, about these releases that have hybrid vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63095	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63096	Thank you, dear colleagues, for your enquiries. Here, you've brought a lot of things out, I'm glad you agree, it's important to highlight two things, it's important to emphasize, just this shortened administrative procedure that will mean a lot to our citizens since 1.1.2018. It means that in one place, they'll do everything they can to buy the vehicle itself and register itself. So, in the place where it registers, this is good, and here I am, in my presentation, it's only partially passed, but a very important item, precisely related to demographics and larger vehicles. Normally, our goal, as well as the objective of this tax reform, is and always has in the background that thought of demographics, so it's very important and important that our families, that they are as big as possible and that they drive in the best vehicles. And normally when we think about road safety in general and anything related to vehicles, we always think about children as road users and what is important to protect them. As far as your last question is concerned, and for hillside environmental vehicles, they are embedded in this law that we must commend definitely the promoter who recognises the trend and what this law means in modern times, we do not need to change it every bit. Hybrid electric vehicles are in this law, freed a large part of the payment of this tax, i.e. excise duties, they are calculated differently per km and not by CO2 emissions. And we see also statisticalally how many new vehicles are purchased, electric vehicles, I think the secretary of state will refer to that in the final presentation. But this is another incentive that of these 13 electric vehicles, which was this year that year after year, we are increasingly emphasising it and that more and more are being obtained from such environmentally-friendly vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63097	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63098	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, therefore, your debate was very correct and you've brought a lot of things out, but what seems impressive to me, and perhaps the ministry's representatives should also think about it, somehow things change quickly when we talk about hybrid electric. And it is clear that it is necessary to reward, to put it that way, green vehicles. Those vehicles that pollute the environment less, the less CO2 emissions of nitrogen oxides. But we have another item to think about, and that's a road excise charge, with the construction of roads that are paid from the price of fuel, while let's say here are the vehicles that have built-in gas, they pay when registering, I think, a one-time amount of 500 kuna. Many times people don't understand who have gas vehicles so they say why we pay more, they should be rewarded because they don't pay through the price of fuel. And the same thing will be with electric cars. How they will actually pay a road fee, and the ministry should make sure that it somehow finds that good measure not to stop the road construction without at the same time encouraging investment in so-called. green mode of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63099	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63100	Ma should stress definitely that the existence of taxes and excise duties are a faster form of imposition and consequences now what we will give the Government that the regulation will also prescribe tariffs to simply speed up the way to modernise something and introduce something new. As far as eco-friendly and hybrid vehicles are concerned, the point is that they are even incorporated into the law, means that, to be careful in this way and to encourage as much as possible, but we see that we are new to that, and so is the excise duty on the road, and as it will apply, it is too little vehicle that the whole focus is on them. But we see for ourselves in our cities and in these power stations for charging that it is slowly changing and these are the laws and regulations of the government tomorrow, I think it's going to be better and better every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63101	Thank you very much. We have an individual discussion of Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63102	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state with associates. When we talk about this law, i.e. the problems and taxation of citizens when buying, i.e. administrative fees when buying a car, we have to make sure that there is a lot of old rolling stock in Croatia and that we have to stimulate our people when buying, I would say new vehicles, especially when speaking, and what especially is this colleague, Žagar, pointed out several times about the promotion of purchases and hybrid and electric vehicles, and that is what the Republic of Croatia should take care of. Although this law simplifies the process somewhat and I would say one tax is replaced by a administrative fee, we must say that this is a significant burden for Croatian citizens who during 2016 amounted to nearly 2 hundred million kuna. So in practice this tax was 1000 kuna and when 209 thousand tax cases are taken, it is about 2 hundred million kunas that in some situations if it were vehicles that I would say are less critical of our environment, or if we go to encourage people to buy such vehicles, you might think in the future that those less burdened or that even when buying used vehicles of electric or hybrid vehicles, maybe even frees citizens of administrative fees to stimulate the purchase of such cars, and this is a very significant market, given that there is already practice in Europe and a lot of people buying electric cars, in Croatia and infrastructure is slowly developing. When their price falls, people know how to get these cars from other EU countries and that is something to think about safely in the future. We also need to think about that it is also evident from the market that Croatia or the car market is recovering and seeing in 2016, especially in 2017, car sales are growing. Now our government shouldn't be, I would say, they shouldn't be uninterested about what kind of cars are being bought, which is a mission of CO2 of those cars, and we see a very large lack and uncertainty of the Croatian government by trying to allow citizens to replace old cars, what is an increase in road safety. And on the other hand, to invest in this kind of car that I was talking about a little while ago, which will allow me to say we have a more positive impact on the environment because we see this negative impact on the environment especially in cities where traffic is greater. In the city of Zagreb, we have a lot of parts of the city that are exposed to a negative impact not only on the environment but also on people's health due to the dense traffic that is taking place here unless the mayor already takes care of trying to regulate traffic in the city of Zagreb in a way that would be optimal, then at least we should try to stimulate people with some benefits to buy cars that have less impact on the health of citizens and the environment itself. And not on the other hand, when citizens go shopping for a car like counterpart Bulj says, they have a stomach cramp and in some ways see that these excise duties are so large, they should simply be released from that cramp. You agree with your colleague Bulj for sure with that finding because I think our people still pay too much money for cars when they buy it, for example, when they change old cars for new cars. And here I agree, so since there is also a change in the Croatian legislative framework that adapts to the European acquis that needs to be supported but I must always think, we see, for example, that Germany throws out diesel cars at all, some cities have even more expensive burden on citizens who use cars that have a harmful impact on the environment. So Croatia is not only cities but the state is not taking care of it at all, and we lack this little thing to show which direction it is developing in the coming years at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63103	Thank you very much. One replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63104	Thank you, Vice President. I've been up the line for the last minute. Dear Maras, you have opened a very important topic, it is the only Croatian city that actually has serious traffic problems, in pollution caused by traffic, that is the city of Zagreb. I think there's 9 locations to measure this pollution and it's not negligible, it's certainly affecting people's health. You mentioned the mayor, of course the problem is broader. The mayor first, then the Ministry of Transport and other ministries should be involved. I sometimes drive, when you're traveling to Dalmatia somewhere, then we're going so-called. The Zagreb bypass. Zagreb no longer has a bypass, it is not a bypass, it is an integral part of the road in the city of Zagreb. So, traffic in the city of Zagreb is dense. With such proposals for legal solutions, we can do something to mitigate this situation by getting hybrid vehicles, environmental vehicles, but without good roads, traffic and traffic pollution problems in Zagreb will not be resolved and believe that this is a very serious problem just the question sometimes of how many data come out in public and how many people actually listen. But what a man understands and his nose can feel when at certain nocturnal points hikers that it is indeed pollution very pronounced.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63105	Answer, here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63106	Thank you very much, sir. Absolutely colleague Žagar you are right, unfortunately we have a situation in the city of Zagreb where instead of these most important topics and the topic of traffic is certainly one of the top 3 topics in Zagreb, the mayor is dealing with moving the name of this square or that square, moving this bust or that bust, it is more important to him that and to whom the leg of Hasanbegovic will rise than the health of the citizens of Zagreb. Such a debate, we haven't heard of such importance in the last ten years from the mayor that anything about traffic is happening at all and I would say it's not just a question of smell, it's a question of and endangering people's health. we are unfortunately not even aware of how much this pollution affects the health of people in the city of Zagreb. We have these measurement points around the city, they usually show a higher dose of particle pollution in those lower parts of the city on the high, or on a hill one is somewhat lower. But what is not there and what is not constant is that there is no traffic strategy in the city of Zagreb and that the mayor is not involved at all. He is now engaged in pleasing Hasanbegovic to move the bust of Ivo Lola Ribara, he deals with whether and how he will explain that he is not an instant anti-fascist but that he is really anti-fascist, and it is evident that he is not thinking about it at all but I say, the most important thing for him is which leg Hasanbegovic will get up that morning, more of which the mayor cares about than traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63107	Okay, we're not gonna say anything that wasn't on the subject, everything was on the subject, okay? It's a deal. Final word, Secretary of State Mr. Tufekčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you for the constructive and contentious debates, and I will only give a brief reference to some of the issues or topics mentioned. So Parliamentarian Bacic mentioned the discharge, so the discharge in some estimated amount of about 90 million kuna. As far as the fiscal aspect is concerned, some reduction in revenues from the state budget means that in relation to the existing specific tax on the transmission of motor vehicles, the future fee will be around 50%. And, of course, the related costs, I didn't mention them at the outset, which are the costs of the public notary, the various fees, etc., which are related to payments and the like. In addition, of course equally important to us here at the Ministry of Finance, which is the discharge tax administration will be focused on more complex tax forms, so we can expect certainly what we expect is an increase in their efficiency, speed, quality of work, etc. As for the facts... of the vehicle, new vehicles, etc. Of course, we can't be satisfied with the state of the fleet, which is on average 12.5 years old, it's not good either from the point of view of security, nor from the aspect of their ecological acceptance, but I think that this government and with special taxes, but in general with tax reform, or the disbursement of the income or the increase of the available income of citizens, but we can even talk about the reduction in profit tax going towards making new vehicles more accessible to a larger number of citizens. Similarly with tax reform since 1.1 this year, this element of CO2 has become a separate element of the calculation of the specific tax or excise duty, so that the greater emphasis of the day is exactly CO2 and this ecological component, which is in favour of new vehicles or the competitiveness of new vehicles on the market, and what is evident from the data that, for example, the entry of new vehicles has increased by 11.5% in this year which, of course, we do not have the ambition to attribute only to this change, but certainly also to the entry of older vehicles of less than 60% of ten years. In the future, it is certainly the intention that this element of CO2 becomes the most significant element and criterion of taxation by this particular tax, so we expect in the future the changes that will go that way. Certainly, the more we encourage the purchase and introduction of new vehicles, the more I must admit from some aspect of regulation, the easier it is because we cannot treat new and old vehicles differently, rather than look for some criteria that we will target and accommodate or encourage the purchase of new vehicles. What is also important to point out is that this and similar model of public tax is 18 EU Member States. Some of them also have more total duties and higher tax burdens of the vehicle compared to what is in the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to say at all that it's our role model and that we're looking for some kind of justification, on the contrary, our goal of the overall tax policy is to go in the direction of discharge, and so on and by this tax form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63109	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63110	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 229. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by a representative of Peja Grbin. I would ask the Secretary of State again at the Ministry of Finance of Honored Zeljko Tufekčić to explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63111	Your Honor, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. In fact, there is no reason to accept it because of Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The general tax law regulates the position of the extramarital community in such a way as to prescribe that the provisions of the General Tax Code, as well as other tax rules applicable to the spouse, to the extramarital partner, to the life partner and to the informal life partner, since the General Tax Law provides for the equalisation of the spouse and the non-marriage partner and the informal life partner, should not in particular indicate that in the final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxation on Motor Vehicles, the words of an extramarital partner, life partner and the informal life partner are added. Such a solution is also prescribed by the Income Tax Act, which states in Article 95 that other dependent family members are considered to be a marriage mate, an out-of-marriage partner, a life partner and an informal life partner of a taxpayer. That provision will be in force until 31 December of this year when it will be replaced by a provision that requires that a dependent member of the family be considered among other spouses. Therefore, the Income Tax Act does not refer to a spouse, a life partner and an informal life partner only as the equalization of a spouse, an extramarital partner, a life partner and an informal life partner is prescribed by the General Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63112	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63113	Dear Mr. Secretary of State. I thank you for your explanation. When I wrote this amendment, I followed the provision, among other things, of the current Article 95(1). Income tax law. I accept your argument, I will not ask for a vote on this amendment. However, given that this type of taxation will now have to be carried out in front of MIP personnel. I ask you to prepare one binding guide to facilitate the position of people who will come and try to register vehicles under the general provision of the General Tax Law, and you and I know how difficult it is for our citizens and much simpler things than this to explain to the Croatian bureaucracy. Given the reasons and the very clear attitude, we are not asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63114	Thank you, too. So then we can move to a vote on the final draft of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles. Please, let's vote. I find that most 97 votes in favour of, 0 abstentions and 2 votes against, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63115	Now we have two laws: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Labour Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 185 and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils, second reading, P.Z.E. number 187. I suggest we conduct a united debate together. Why? Because that's how it was in the first reading and because these topics are in correlation. Does anyone mind? No, we'll have a joint discussion. Both laws are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Of course, it is a second reading for both laws, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I will now give my word to the Proposer, the legislator or Mrs Majdi Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, with one important announcement, after that opening presentation at 1400 hours, we will have a break of up to 15.00 hours, as well as representatives who have been working here all morning acquire the right to lunch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63116	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin. Honorable representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Final Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, as well as the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils, is before us. The final proposal for the Law amending the Labour Act was made in accordance with the conclusion adopted at the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 4 October 2017, which adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. First of all, I would like to say that the final draft law contains no new solutions or differences in the text of the bill that was in the first reading. The law refers and adopts for the purpose of implementing Directive 2015/1794 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 amending the three EU directives of Parliament and of the Council and of the two Council Directives, all in respect of seamen. The purpose of the directive is to ensure, in a transparent and coherent manner, the protection of the rights of seamen in matter governing the procedures of notifying, consulting, showing collective surpluses, as well as the transfer of labour contracts to the new employer. In addition to the others, the quoted directive amended three Directives which were transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia by the Labour Act. In the Republic of Croatia, as we know, the seamen's working relationship is governed by a special law, which is the Maritime Code. However, the rights of seafarers with regard to the participation of workers in the participation of decision-makers, the rights in the exercise of collective surplus workers, and the right to transfer labour contracts, to new employers, are not governed by the maritime code, but are governed by the Labour Act. In such a way that, with regard to the regulation of these specific rights, there is no exclusion from application, for seamen, or for crew members, the provision of equal levels of rights to seamen, as well as for other workers, to which the general rules on labour and apply. This law will therefore establish that the Labour Act complies with the requirements of Directive 2015/1794 as regards seamen. In addition, the additional reason why the law is adopted is to enable, implement and implement the legal provisions contained in the working legal institute, co-determination of the working council, i.e. the re-adjustment of consent, the working council or the trade union, in order, instead of mandatory arbitration proceedings, to replace such consent, to re-introduce a legal solution, which is prescribed primarily by the judicial jurisdiction, in order to replace such consent. This is related to the Labour Act, which is subject to the Law on European Workers' Councils, the final proposal and related to it should also be stressed, that there are no substantive changes in relation to first reading, i.e. the proposal for a law. And it has been established that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on European Workers' Councils, will amend Article 2. which again refers to the implementation of the aforementioned Directive 1794 and will be complemented. 14th concerning the conditions for the work of the negotiating committee, as well as the Art. 31, which concerns working conditions, the European Working Council, and all in order to ensure the conditions for facilitating participation in meetings, all members of the negotiating committee and the European Workers' Council, and so on to the members of the seafarers, including through the use of information and communication technologies, and all in accordance with the requirements of Directive 1794. Here's to the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63117	Thank you very much. We still have time for the committee reporter. We know Mr. Gordan Maras asked for a word. Here you go. In front of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63118	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Is this a united debate? ... I am then taking the opportunity to inform the Croatian Parliament that the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, held at the 24th session on 29.11.2017, discussed the final proposal of the Law amending the Labour Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils, which was introduced by State Secretary Majda Buric and how it is apparent that this law is in line with the requirements of the EU Directive 2015. 17/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6.10.2015 As regards the work of the seamen, i.e. to contain general provisions laying down the subject of the Labour Act, it is important that this general regulation applies to the workers of the seamen as well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So this is an interpretation that includes people and who do not only work in the area of the Republic of Croatia and that it is essentially in line with something that is valid in European legislation. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously adopted one amendment to both the law and the other, and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending the Law on the Labour of P.Z. 185 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on European Workers' Councils of P.Z. No. 187. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63119	Okay. Thank you, too. The apartment lasts until 3:00. ... I've announced a break until 3:00, because there's a representative here who's been since morning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Some, yes, some, not since morning, have the right to lunch. It's 13,47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63120	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the European Workers' Councils and the final proposal of the Law amending the Labour Act is also united. So we're going to continue the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Žagar. But I have one hand in the air. Let's move forward with the debate, dear colleague Zhagar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63122	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, I will indeed seek to highlight two aspects of this united debate on these two laws in a brief debate. First of all, any law that promotes the rights of workers, especially in this case, workers over seven seas who earn their bread should be supported. And as far as the amendments to the Law on European Workers' Councils are concerned, we have no doubt. Here is one more point for the public as it says in the reasoning of the law. The consequences to be achieved by the law are, above all, the fulfilment of the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of Directive 2015/1794 in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Second, ensuring an adequate level of law, i.e. the working conditions and protection of the rights of seamen as well as other workers to whom the national special regulation governing the procedures for notifying and consulting the employer at a transnational level applies, and in accordance with European standards. This is especially important for sailors who often base their working relationship with different shipowners so that they can exercise their rights. Here's the thing about amending the Labour Act. We've prepared an amendment as a club. I'll explain it now. You will receive further discussions on the amendment, so I ask the Proposer to look at it, and I hope he accepts it. Here's the short story. Therefore, Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 amending several Directives and all relating to the rights of the seamen from the basic working legal relationship is introduced in the Croatian legal order. The directive itself found that so-called The blue economy forms an important part of the European Union's economy, and that the rights of seamen in the process of working co-decision and in the larger processes of supplying excess workers must be equalised with the rights of other workers. We consider this a good change because, unfortunately, the seafarers to whom the maritime code was primarily applied were not adequately protected as workers until now, nor had adequate opportunities for working cooperation in cases such as when the Croatian company was taken over by another shipowner. In some ways, I am using this opportunity to protect all of us together and we here as a legislative body, and I hope that the Republic of Croatia also tells sailors that for many years their rights are not actually adequately protected, because the directive, the introduction of a directive, turns out that only by introducing a directive will we protect those rights. Now the general rules of the Labour Act and the collective redundancy process apply to them, so the system is much fairer. Furthermore, the amendments and additions to the laws shall be governed by the Institute of Prior Consensus of the Workers' Council, i.e. by trade unions in cases of cancellation of work contracts for protected categories of workers. It remains unclear here why, as an alternative model, the possibility of adjudicating the arbitration decision was left in the case referred to in Articles 151 and 41, in cases of prior consent of the Working Council. However, the procedure is no longer governed by the law, and the provisions have been deleted, but only the procedure for the outcome of the court ruling is regulated. While, in the cases referred to in Article 188, the replacement of the prior consent of the trade union is no longer possible for the outcome of the arbitration decision but only for the court. Therefore, there is a possibility for the Working Council to make an arbitration decision with a court ruling, and there is no possibility for a union commissioner to make an arbitration decision. We assume that this is either a failure or in some way omitted from Article 188, and in that sense we will submit an amendment to add the possibility of an arbitration decision in Article 188. We can, of course, say that this shows that the amendments and additions on one side may have been done quickly or bureaucratically because there is always a need to respect the primary way to achieve previous consent, since neither three years after the entry into force of the Labour Act nor the full fulfillment of it. But now to solve this problem, it is good to put alternatively both cases. In the case of the Workers' Councils and in the case of the unions. We hope that the Proposer will accept this amendment, and in this respect I can say that the MOST Club will certainly support these legislative proposals in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63123	Thank you. Another order should be the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club, however, there is no counterparts of the Bunjca, so he loses his right to say a word. Then comes the HDZ Representatives' Club and esteemed counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63124	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. At first reading both laws, we suggested that we have a united discussion because one is connected to the other. We also said it was unnecessary to go to another reading, but here's what Mr. Sagar said on behalf of the Most, and this amendment may have some things to happen. However, as regards the law itself, amendments to the Law on the European Workers' Council did not take place in relation to the first reading of any changes. There was only one change that was related to the Labour Act where the Ministry of Administration's proposal was accepted, which had an impact on the difference between the solution proposed by the final draft of the law compared to the one set out in the bill. And it was the only change I knew. And I asked the secretary of state if someone else had happened. So what you're saying about the amendment you submitted should be said that the Republic of Croatia has passed the Maritime Code. He has over 1,000 articles, and there he well covered all those rights related to sailors and crews of ships. This is about an EU directive that will be implemented both in the Labour Act and in the Law on the European Workers' Councils. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63125	Thank you. Let's move on, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63126	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP advocates' club will support this law because it is nomotechnics or compliance with EU rules, but it is impossible when we talk about the Labour Act and the Labour Council Act not to mention that, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia today, we have a bad situation regarding certain things related to the work itself, but also what we pointed out today in the debate is unfortunately the government has fallen asleep, Prime Minister Plenkovic has fallen asleep about the increase in minimum wage and there is a need to make it very clear that as soon as possible some things must be done or must react. Not enough is this 130 kuna increase announced today by Minister Pavic, and there is a SDP proposing that five percentage increases in minimum salary in 2021 each year, as well as for people who are employed as seamen, the salary is secured at 60% of the average salary. And that's something that we have to talk about here when we talk about labour legislation, when we talk about labour law, when we talk about working councils, and there's no need to ignore problems. Unfortunately, too many people may not be as fortunate as sailors to work in a sector that is relatively well paid, so they must leave Croatia. A whole town moved out of the Republic of Croatia last year, nearly a hundred thousand citizens left us, and the government of the Republic of Croatia is not going to do anything at this time. It seems that Prime Minister Plenkovic woke up for a moment from his winter sleep, realized that something had to be done. It would be good if he accepted the proposal, as well as colleagues from other clubs here who voted against him, the SDP in March of this year when we asked to improve workers' rights to raise minimum wage or to allow people to get several hundred kunas more and move in that direction forward. So every step forward will be adopted by the SDP Representatives' Club, so we also accept these amendments to the Labour and Workers' Councils Act. We are aware that there is something here that is purely technical alignment. As a representative, I personally submitted an amendment in order to make it perfectly clear that one of the concerns in the Labour Act is removed whether the cancellation of a union-related worker should be consulted with a union representing or being able to consult with another union, so it would be good for the government to accept it. But what we need to talk about here, and it may seem to someone that this topic is not strictly related to this topic, but as soon as the Labour Act is mentioned, it must also be talked about working conditions, it must be said that it is necessary to amend the Labour Act, that it is necessary to amend the Minimum Payment Act, that the conditions of working in the Republic of Croatia should be changed. I see that one of the companies I asked today, quite well-intentionedly, to tell us how to deal with workers within that company, that she responded very strongly, but she did not answer those fundamental questions as to how many of her employees were employed on minimum wage. Since they said the average salary is 5,800, but how does that pay come to? How's it paying off? Even in some conversations, they admitted that people are paid off on the basis of the traffic they make. What kind of contracts are these, how is that defined? Those answers should be given because we here are not to be concerned only with technique and that's the question. Here is the State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, who has an inspectorate under him and I here very clearly ask the question also on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club how it is done in companies of 600, 700 employees on the basis of traffic made by that person who works as an employee, and then it is normal for that person to want to do as much as possible and sometimes 12 hours a day as possible to get to the biggest salary. That's what we need to talk about here, and that's what the ministry should be asking about. And here I am now repeating once again because there is a secretary of state and I ask here to officially and write down my inquiry and pass it on to the inspector to make sure that it's too serious to stay in the air, that people who are in service work who know how many hours of traffic to get paid from that traffic. And then the people in that company protect themselves in a way to say they're dropping the average salary, and as it happened, how much work was invested in it we don't have information about. According to that logic, if we follow that logic, it's a taxi ride in one company in the Republic of Croatia, then people could work 24 hours, so we might have 10 thousand kunas to pay, and then that company could give us lessons and explain what it's actually like to be in office, and we all know that it's not okay here. And that's why I had to mention this one more time as something that's related to the Labour Act, and what's especially about it, I'm asking you to check it out, so the inspectorate is within the Ministry of Labour, so this is a very serious topic. I hope you'll respond and ask for a report on whether it's true to check how much it's done. People do this via an application very easily, whether to record how much is recorded, etc., to see what are the working conditions and to see why and whether it is true. I'm not running away from it, but here as an agent, I have to say what I hear from people, and I've heard it from the employees of that company to see if it's true that people work so much, that they're paid to traffic, that a lot of them are registered to minimum wage. Because then why would they be registered for minimum wage if the average salary is 5,800? Why not pay them, I don't know, 4,000 kuna or 4,500 kuna, and then get some stimulation depending on how much they did and did that month, of course in those legal frameworks that the law provides for, and since it's about the Labour Act, since it's also about one service activity and these are the seamen that carry the burden, I had to mention because it's current, it's also about the employees who work in transport and it needs to be insisted on doing so. We need to give these answers to people, and people need to be aware that they can address someone, and I'm very embarrassed to hear that from our citizens at some point, and we simply have to react to that. Once again, we will support this law and please, once again, the secretary of state to check it out and report to me as chairman of the Labour Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63127	We've got two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63128	Dear colleague Maras, I agree with everything you've said, but there is one thing you haven't said that I think is important to highlight. You said that a whole town moved out last year without Prime Minister Plenkovic's government doing anything about it and I'm lying about it, it's not disputed. But the fact is that even at the time of the SDP's term, he moved around town every year, but what? Then, as Plenkovic now says, he halved youth unemployment, and the truth is that young people have actually left the country, and at the time of your term, you said that 500 new jobs in Croatia are being opened every week. It was a pre-election campaign I remember like yesterday. And the truth was that 500 people actually left our country a week. And that's what I expect from you, there's no problem seeing that rival political flaw, but the important thing is what I keep telling you that you're missing in the party, there's criticism, and there's self-critics. You have only this criticism and there is no self-criticism, and with no self-critics, we are actually in a situation that tomorrow if you take power again, what happened before or what is happening now will continue to happen, in other words people will continue to leave the country. I ask you to perceive the problem, to see your own mistakes, and to ask yourself what led to this and ultimately not to repeat the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63129	Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63130	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I agree with you that you should be self-critical but not to brag here I am publicly in the Parliament, I am one of those who criticises and examines his own actions, even sometimes let's say so myself, make a bigger burden than I should. All the time I've been wondering if I've done anything wrong and analyzed whether I could have done something better. And is it as cruel as I am to attack HDZ? Maybe I'm unfair to them and I'm thinking about whether to go even harder, whether to cut a little bit, but then I get it. And when I suggest something, they don't accept anything. And then I give myself an answer and I say that I need to be even stronger, that maybe what I'm doing should be even harder. And on that side, don't doubt that I've been questioning my actions both now that I'm in opposition and when I'm in power. And I'm not going to say that the results were ideal because we're all aware that there was a huge problem, but the difference is when you welcome the state and when you take responsibility for the deficits, you know Mr. Shuker, 25 billion kuna, economic downturn 2.5 to 3%, and different when you get to the situation as you came here, Mr. Jandrokovic smiles because he knows it's true, with a rise of 3.5%. That's where the bigger and better results are expected, that's what this is all about. When we were, it was awful hard, people were leaving, nobody was happy with it, but how now that 3.5 economic growth, why are the most people leaving now? Why do most people leave now? Why does HDZ, why doesn't Plenkovic do something to keep people in Croatia? That's what we're talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63131	Thank you. Don't throw it away. I wasn't laughing because I know it's true, but it's the opposite. The second one's up, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63132	Dear colleague Maras, in your presentation, I think it was necessary to highlight two things. First that the ministry is late with the implementation of the directive, the deadline was 10.10.2017, and I hope that the state will have no problem and pay for the penalty. This amendment to the directive, it is a technical matter, could be implemented in itself before it can be implemented. And another thing about these changes being like a coward's egg under the table is the amendment of the Labour Law to abolish arbitration. And arbitration is abolished for the simple reason that the rules have failed to be passed and that arbitration has failed to be implemented as a procedure that would relieve Croatian courts and allow disputes to be resolved between workers and employers much faster. I know the ministry will always get away with it if it could have been done before, but it was two years ago that HDZ could have done it. And as far as labour participation is concerned, it's one civilizational fluid. What is also significant is that the current ministry and the former ministry in which Dr. Šikic was minister did nothing in developing working councils and participating workers through the working council. The European Workers' Councils can be an example of how it is done at European level and we in Croatia do not cough but in some way also prevent the work of the Working Councils because we do not give them enough wind to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63133	Replication response, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63134	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mrsic. You have noticed well, and not only do you notice it but the social partners notice it, trade unions that are essentially objecting to the fact that in some ways this situation in Croatia does not improve the rights of workers. And that participation, for example, and decision-making and suggestions through the Labour Councils and their position, is not at the level at which I should be more concrete changes to the Labour Law, because what we now have is obviously not what we should have and not only do I not mean that because of such a situation our workers do not have the opportunity to achieve certain rights, but the overall social environment, or I would say the feeling that our people and when they work, work in a way that they cannot express certain things that disturb them, or that their rights are exercised and that their voice is heard and that what they would essentially change not only in the law, but also in their companies. And there you need to take a step, step up and do certain things. Because I think that a lot of labour rights are being violated, and people are unfortunately at that stage having to work and not asking too many questions, but that's why there are those of us who can speak for them, and that's why I'm representing today and I've opened up the question of one company, a large company that thus works with 600, 700 drivers and even outside of Croatia a number. And I am convinced that there are many things that the legislator, or one who controls, should see You should have seen to make sure that those people paid for it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] earnings, earnings under normal working conditions. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63135	Let's move on. The next debate is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63136	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This is about some changes to the Labour Act. But as we can see, what's actually changing here. Here it only changes when something comes as a directive from Brussels and that's what we can say are important sailors, everything's fine. However, we have far greater problems in terms of labour market, workers, and I want to talk about it, i.e. to be clear right away. I call on everyone here, all the political parties, all the parliamentary representatives to make together a much better Labour Act to protect workers and lives from work. What is this about, what do I want to talk about? So this government doesn't protect workers, and especially young people who are just getting a job, doesn't protect their mothers and doesn't protect their families, and I'm going to say a few words below. Look, gentlemen, we have a big problem with work for a while today. By 2008, about 13 of them worked for a certain period of time, had such contracts. In the past year, two out of a hundred employees of as many as 60 young people who are employed means working for a certain period of time. I'm asking you, is that acceptable? I think it's totally unacceptable, that it's immoral and that it's one big scam and it's going through an invention called SOR, which is professional training of workers. No wonder such innovations were made by people who had no idea about the economy, the labour market. Instead of staying to deal in their fields of education. What is the consequence of such a model? This model has turned into a renewal of work for a certain period of time, and therefore in Croatia we have a new invention in employment, which is undefined work for a certain time. It means indefinitely to a certain one. See, that's something we can't accept and it's very dangerous for the whole society. Why is that a problem? Well, because working for a certain time creates people especially young people insecure, which is the incentive of the gentlemen to move out. In this context the Labour Act defines maximum that you can work for three years at a specified time, so when you change the second job then you can again for three years. So I'm saying it's a concept of work, so indefinitely for a certain time. In this sense, workers are treated really as slaves, so that they can be kicked out of the process and that they can be done whatever they want. The party "Let's Change Croatia" strongly opposes this kind of behaviour, this kind of capitalism that is never defined in Croatia. I'm not sure, but I guess few people here know that the draft Croatian state has never reached a strategic agreement between trade unions and employers, so let's just say that as a capitalist. That's why we have capitalism the way it is that anyone can work with the workers they want. That's why I call on unions, but also employers to make all of us together with political parties, and here with parliamentary representatives one fairer, fairer labour law more comprehensive. The new Labour Act must also include the issue of work on Sundays. It is unacceptable in one country where 80, one, two percent of citizens plead as Catholics, that Sundays are done so that mothers and families can't be together at the table. And beware of the socialism of one who was constantly referred to as black socialism, it was respected. So I'm asking you what kind of system we're in and who's fit with this system at all. I'm sure I know he's not answering to the workers. That's why we don't support this labour law. What is now being brought to us here, these are usually directives that will not bring better lives to workers in Croatia. The social democratic component, so no one defends the position of workers in this country, it's all lost. We need to open it up and point out that problem. Another problem that must also be introduced into the Labour Act is the minimum problem. So who can live more than 2,600 kunas when he gets his hands on his work. So I invite you to do this even though someone will say it, so this is not the case for today's debate of the Labour Act, but the citizens expect us to talk about it. They don't mean anything to them except the seamen, they don't mean anything to the rest of them. I suggested two years ago that the minimumer be five thousand kunas, then some laughed. But it has been in recent months that it is those who have laughed who are now beginning to repeat it, they want to raise the minimum, but not by 174 kuna, which is an ordinary smile like this these days but rather to raise it to 5,000 kuna. But be careful they don't know how to handle it. So what is the main advantage of the party to change Croatia? Well, in that we know the gentlemen's solutions. We don't use populism, we don't switch and argue here with each other, but we do know very specifically how to reach this solution of five thousand kunas. I'm just going to draw it in one, paint it. All the wages contributed for a net of 2.600 kuna to the amount of 5 thousand kuna for that difference would no longer be allocated by the employer to any additional allocations for anything else. Therefore, the employer would have no reason to pay the difference in black in cash, but it would all be legal and that would be one real solution. I think distinguished colleagues and colleagues have come a new time in which the parties that have led Croatia so far not only not to see reality, they do not see reality, and in particular they do not see the future. That is why I invite you to the gathering that I have with the knowledge and approach that we are referring to the most important problems in Croatia to change this unbearable reality. And in the end, I want to warn you of another problem. You see, due to such low wages in Croatia, these 2,600 kuna minimumers already have the phenomenon that there is a significant increase in pressure on labour prices, especially when it comes to certain professions, crafts, skills. I warn you from this place that in the next year, not to say two years, we will have a drastic increase in wages in certain segments, it will affect the accumulation of final products in industry in certain activities, and that will not make our competitiveness worse. It is therefore important that we move now, to make these necessary changes because we remain, we will not be able to achieve a growth rate of 3% or 2% because people, the best people, the most qualified people leave Croatia. If we're left with people who aren't qualified enough, they don't have the skills and the skills we need, so how are we going to achieve rates growing more than 3% that I don't speak out of 3%, it's just going to be a dream. Well, that's the mess I keep talking about because neither the market nor the state works here, let alone a specific strategy or a plan to develop a national economy or individual segments such as the labour market. I repeat, let us gather, the party Change Croatia invites all of you to draft a new Labour Act that will protect workers, who will be able to live with dignity on their salary, not to be exploited by who arrives and that he must seek a better life across the border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63137	We have four replicas. The first one's the honorary colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63138	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lovrinović, you have raised a number of questions. What's actually indicative, what we might notice, this morning we could listen to on the show I think it's called "In the First Network" or how they were already representatives of the Association of Employers, representatives of the union, no one is pleased with you today. The government should open its eyes and ears wide to see what these are requirements and employers and union demands. I'm a worker. And of course it's not easy to find a compromise there, but what if we want to find a fair compromise then we need to have a hearing for it. If you're talking about minimum wage, the office needs to increase it by the government now announcing something, but what's primarily the same is an increase in net wages, meaning getting as much tax pay disbursement as possible. But I wanted here because here are the representatives and the ministries and colleagues Maras spread it, and I have to say that for the public, we have an example. the problem of paying the minimum wage in such a way as not to introduce certain specific duties. So, for example, transporters who drive more than 30km in length of the route of transport by road are paid a field allowance in particular means that they are not included in the salary and are not paid in taxes or contributions and are placed in an unequal position towards other carriers who do so. So, first of all, relations in the Republic of Croatia should be regulated, and legal regulations should be respected, and then such regulations should also help employers to do better business, to be competitive, and workers to exercise their rights. It's not going to work any other way. And one more thing, when I sent it to the Department of Transport to check it out, they said it wasn't in their jurisdiction, so they sent it to inspection, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63139	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63140	Dear colleague Sagar, what is this all about? So you're actually saying that there's no respect for the profession, competences, that there's not one meaningful conversation and the preparation of quality solutions and that it works if there's no such thing, then it's done as anyone understands, or how it's done. Well, we've been living in one situation for a long time where workers, employers, they're just getting along. Well, you saw when we weren't for a time, when there was a government crisis, GDP started to grow, so I think there's no government in this country, that nothing would feel, or, to make the system work, even better than it is now. Well, in that sense, I completely agree with you, no one's taking care of the worker. Many think in government and state structures, that it is 2600 kn, that it can be lived on, and I, as a doctor of the economy, can't understand how a worker, who gets a minimumer how he can live on it. That's why it's important to really look at the real situation, how people live, and the people live badly. A large number of workers live badly, no job, and there can be no motivation, no stimulation to work, if someone gets a minimum of 2600 kn. I'm saying, as I've already said a little bit about it, I think it's quite feasible, and concrete figures, how much state can save, compensate for such people as a minimumr, I've talked about billions of savings on interest in the expenditure of the state on debts it has towards banks and inventory in their... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63141	We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63142	Thank you very much. Keep it in writing. Art. 174 is injured. The Rules of Procedure which discusses the content of the bill, it goes to you, the President and Secretary of Bucharest. Namely, the legislator is obliged to inform the president of the parliament, who will inform the working bodies and the parliament of the explanation, i.e. the reasons needed, State Secretary Majda Buric, is not listed as the person who will give the explanation. And I think it's a mistake and it's a good thing you took it off because it has no right to give it to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63143	Yes, yes, all right, fellow Bukarica, a failure and I confess the failure, that it happened. ... All right, esteemed colleague Pernar, it's your turn now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63144	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say the next thought, with my colleague Lovirović, I agree with 99% of it, or I would dare say, with everything, except for one detail he mentioned. In fact, he said that we should essentially ban Sunday's work. That's how I figured it out. Did I get my colleague right? ... I didn't, then in that case, if a colleague has no intention, or, if that's not his goal, then I have nothing to replicate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63145	But there's an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63146	Here, I'll take it for a while. Of course, the time for my exposure, however, ten minutes seemed enough, wasn't enough. The second solution is forbidden, they're not popular anyway. Working on Sundays, in my opinion, is supposed to increase 50 to 100% for that day. Right? And especially should you protect mothers with children. If they plead that they do not want to work that day, then it must be respected. Others who would like to work, then they, in my opinion, would have to get that journal, 50 to 100% higher compared to a regular day's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63147	Let's go to three lines, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you, we do not speak in essence of harmonising with EU directives, for help is essentially, it is a copying of the legislative directives, which every day come to us here in essence, as regards workers and their rights, we would agree with you, not only that they do not have rights, which we should have, but we simply do not have workers anymore, because workers are going to third countries and we simply lose our workforce. And when we look at it, you're well compared in socialism were better conditions, and even, here on Sundays it wasn't mandatory work, you've now said that a man has the right to choose whether to at least do it on Sundays, if he wants to work, to get paid better. It is sad that in Croatia for 2000 kn, cashier or 2,500 kn, at work receptions, in large centres, ask women, our wives, means mothers, wives, irrelevantly, from your sister, if you want to get pregnant. Is this demographic policy? Is it an employer's enquiries when he asks a young person, a woman, is that what it is, is it discrimination? Is that a question, is it normal in a civilization state to ask, give someone a job, if you want to get pregnant, you can't work. It's not there, so it's discrimination, it's discrimination, it's discrimination. Thus, what is by God and by man, the worker should be paid for his earnings. But in us it's all the other way around, of all the laws, of the law of bankruptcy, of whether or not the believers... I'd rather charge than pay the workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is an example of Kamenska, Dalmatia and a number of other companies, where simple workers are charged and workers, so there is discrimination in us of workers, and mainly of the worker, in all matters. And here I absolutely agree with you without a new legal framework on Croatian compliance, as the Croats should, that is how the state must function, otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63149	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63150	Dear colleague Bulj, I fully share your thoughts of family as the basic station of society. She's been trying to tear herself apart for the past few years. In what way? Well, one of the most effective ways is just to work on Sundays, holidays, so that one day the family can't sit at the table to bless in peace, to talk to their children about the problems they've been doing, how they feel, that's how society is built. And then what can we expect from young people, from children in 10, 15 years, what can we expect from them? We can expect dissatisfaction, more and more problems with them, simply your path to destroying your family as the basic cells of society. But to raise it to a far higher level. Well, this isn't a state, we don't have a state, so watch me formally have a state. This is the state of capital, we've been kidnapped by the state. The financial authority has imposed itself on this government, meaning legislative as both parliamentary and executive, and they are in the service of capital. That's what this is all about. Who does a mess like this fit if nothing's solved? No labour law, no job position, no family. so it just fits this one feudal capitalism because the regulated capitalism, it has its own rules, there market still works in a much better way for you to have a chance to get in somewhere, something to do but you now go somewhere in Croatia, everything is already fixed, busy, so we need a thorough reconstruction of the state and society because Croatia cannot develop and exit the crisis without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63151	We have a fourth line, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63152	Thank you very much. Mr Lovrinović, in your presentation, you also mentioned the minimum wage or position of 75 000 Croatian employees who unfortunately cannot live with dignity because we should all be asked here what it is like to do for 2 800 kuna net, and now we see the announcement by generous Prime Minister Plenkovic that he will increase the salary of 130 kuna. I wonder what you think about whether you agree with our proposal that goes on behalf of the SDP Club to go immediately to 45% of the average salary and next year to 50, then to 55, and 2021 to 60%, which would allow people here now to roughly calculate some 600 to 700 kunas more minimum wage net than it is today. Not to wait like this and to strain simply Prime Minister Plenkovic blinks before every Christmas and says he will increase them 100 per 100 kuna. We simply have to take care of the people that they don't have the cramps to say to a fellow Bull, in the stomach that they feel when they see how much they pay. And I'm saying it's 75,000 Croatian citizens who have that cramp every time they see their salary at the end of the month that is not dignified and not enough for a decent life. And then the question arises whether we even realize how many people leave Croatia because of such things and why nothing is done, and that would depend on your claim that this is essentially a state of capital and not the people who live here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63153	Thank you. Answer, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63154	Well, here's my colleague, Maras, I was at a hup ceremony yesterday, and they invited me and the other MPs, and so on. Although such a business and diplomatic statement has been made, rather harsh criticism has been made of the economic achievements so far, that is, the economic situation in the past year and their research so-called. The score, the final analysis, has shown no optimism for next year either. I think that's where it's all said. But there at one point someone came out with this information that would increase the minimumer by some as much as you said, 147 or 174 kuna, I take that as confirmation so-called. The economy of drips. And the economy of drips means when there is plenty on the main table that something from that table will fall in the form of drops or crumbs, so all those around, they are underpaid, poor that something will come to them. I will never agree with such a thesis and with such a theory, and that is one of the reasons why I entered politics and came to this House. He who works and works with honor and works well for his work must be paid. They cannot tolerate so much tax evasion, so much machination and criminal behaviour in the economy and on the other hand to save on workers. But I repeat, I know clearly how we can get to 5,000 kuna minimum wage in Croatia and that would stop many people from evicting, improve their standard of living and make their lives happier in Croatia and can be done, responsibly argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63155	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when you get the terms. Now we're going to vote on the debated points. 1. Final proposal of the Law amending the Labour Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 185. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by a representative of Gordan Maras and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown from the amendments submitted. With us, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System was respected by Katarina Ivanković Knezevic. Good afternoon. Please, first of all, it means an amendment to Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As regards the amendment of Parliament's representative Gordan Maras, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for the simple reason that the regulation of the rights of union commissioners was not a topic of working group discussion consisting of trade unions and employers, which has worked intensively to transpose the Maritime Rights Directive and we believe that such a proposal must first be discussed with the social partners and it has only only been discussed in the next amendment of the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63158	Since there are no colleagues of Maras, but here he comes right now, I'm asking you to read yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63159	Thank you very much. I don't know if you've accepted, haven't you? The amendment was submitted to make a slightly more precise statement concerning the representative of the union or to explain that it cannot be done without a representative, or a union in which the worker representative is present, that it cannot be done without its consent. I ask you to accept it because nothing fundamentally changes the law or that article, but it defines something much more precisely, and I think it would mean a lot to both the employees and representatives of the union, and I don't see why you refused, given that there's not much of a big deal about what's changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63160	Okay. I vote then this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So we move on to the second amendment, it's an amendment to the club of representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63161	Thank you very much. As regards the amendment of Mr Miroslav Simic's parliamentary representative, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the above-mentioned amendment, and for the reason that a really intense debate has been carried out on this issue on all members of the Working Group who participated in the Proposal for amendments to this Labour Act, which I repeat, is the primary objective of harmonising with the Maritime Rights Directive. Furthermore, due to a certain legal gap that has occurred since 2014, the social partners, all of them, together with all the representatives of the Government after intensive consultations carried out with representatives of the relevant courts from the Constitutional Court of Zagreb and other courts, have decided that this institute of compensation of consent should be regulated in the manner that has been governed by the previously applicable Labour Act or that it remains only a judicial decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63162	Thank you. Since it was an amendment to the Club of Representatives and not Mr. Simic, you can manifest yourself. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63163	Thank you, Mr. President. So we're sorry you didn't accept this amendment because we don't see why in this second case, when it comes to trade unions, they wouldn't take arbitration decisions. We don't see any problems. But your explanation also seems rather bureaucratic. Here, we're sorry you didn't accept the amendment, I think he would contribute to the rights of the workers. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63164	Let's vote, well, then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. It determines that the amendment has not received the required number of votes so that we are going now, thank you, we are going to vote. And I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Labour Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 115 votes to nine abstentions passed the Law amending the Labour Act. We are now moving to the last item of the agenda today: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on International Temporary Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 233 Proposer of the Act is Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would now like the representative of the motionary, State Secretary Zarko Katic, to give an additional explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63208	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of honor. RH, since 2004. It has implemented in its legislation, the Convention on the Legal Position of Refugees of the UN Convention, as well as a number of EU directives and hence, implements the Asylum Act and provides protection to persons who are in countries of origin, persecuted for their origin, expressed political opinion or other legitimate reasons and provides such protection in our country. Our asylum legislation has seen more changes and additions in the past 15 years, and the last law on, now called, the Law on International and Temporary Protection entered into force on 2 July 2015. and it provides for different rights and obligations for persons with international protection in the Republic of Croatia, whether asylum or subsidiary protection. For the sake of perhaps wider images and informing you of parliamentary representatives or the wider Croatian public, I want it to expire that the Republic of Croatia, actively participates in its capabilities and in sharing the burden of the refugee crisis and its acts and real-estate actions, implements decisions of the EU Council, on the relocation and relocation of refugees. Many of you are certain to know that the Republic of Croatia, has committed itself to accepting 1433 refugees based on relocation, therefore, from EU countries, refugees who have already come to European soil. And by Decision of the Government of 2015 150 persons based on a move from Turkey and a new government decision of 5.10 this year for an additional 100 persons for 2018. Realistically in our country so far, 81 people have come from these numbers based on migration, 60 from Greece, 21 from Italy, and last week, for the first time, persons who have moved from Turkey, 40 Syrian citizens in the nature of the 7 families. So, for which the Republic of Croatia has decided to accept responsibility and offer them international protection. One of the most important jobs that and the obligation that a foreigner, seeking international protection, would come to the Republic of Croatia, so that it could function, is quality preparation for integration. As I mentioned, the law on international temporary protection provides a series of rights and obligations. For example, the rights to work, the right to accommodation, health care, education, the right to free confession of faith and so on. These amendments to the laws that are before you are the purpose, i.e. the result of the problems that arise when finding accommodations for approved asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection. So, during the course of the procedure, persons are located at shelters, the Ministry of Interior, in 2 shelters, one is in Zagreb, the drug is in Kutina, and persons can, if they have their own resources, or are located in their own arrangement. However, after approved protection, they shall, within a period of 2 years, be approved and provided for accommodation. This right is exercised by a person who does not possess his own means of money or things of greater value, and their accommodation is provided by the basis, i.e. on the burden of the ministry's assets in charge of social care affairs. The implementation of this obligation has seen shortcomings and difficulties, that the entire accommodation insurance process is taking too long. In this way, the reception capacity, the asylum seekers in our reception centres, is then used too long, usually for 2.3 months until the person moves into individual accommodations. And we believe that the amendments attached to the obligation to provide accommodations, asylum seekers and persons with approved subsidiary protection would move on from hence, the Ministry of Social Care to the state, the Central State Office for Housing. We believe that the Central State Office for Housing, has a rich experience in the care of returnees and refugees after the Homeland War, and will be able to do much more effectively with the provision of accommodation, as housing units, owned by the Republic of Croatia, and have the possibility to rent with 3 persons. The office also uses EU funds to adapt state-owned housing, which would be used for this purpose. Yes, I may inform you of the number of persons. So far in the Republic of Croatia, asylum has been granted relatively few people. For example, in 2015, international protection for 43 persons in 2016 was granted for 100 persons, and in this year the number of approved asylums and... The protection will move, it'll reach about 200. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these persons need to be provided for accommodation. However, in order not to be misused, this bill sets out more precisely the participation of asylum seekers and asylum seekers themselves in the cost of accommodation, and the reasons for the loss of the right to accommodation are extended along with those prescribed so far and in cases where, for example, an asylumee does not stay for more than 30 days at the address of the apartment or house assigned to him if it is found that he does not care for secured accommodation with the care of a good master, if he uses this accommodation contrary to his purpose and in other cases. Since the funds at the position of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Care are secured for these purposes only until the end of 2017, and the proposal for a State Budget for 2018 with a projection proposal for 19th and 20th accommodation funds for asylum seekers and persons under subsidiary protection are proposed at the position of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, this law is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. Here's the basic explanation of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws. Thank you very much. We have one amendment to the Legislative Committee relating to Article 5, where the proposal is a nomotechnical amendment to say: "in cooperation with the Secretary of State" replaces the words "with the previous consent of the Secretary of State" and the Government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63209	Thank you. It's two replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63210	Thanks for the exposure. Just a quick question. Analyticals deals with the future. What do you predict for the next 10 years where Croatia will be? How many emigrants will come here? I mean, it's hard to judge now, but I said a long time ago, it's someone making fun of that coming now a new wave of immigrants. These are the climates that run away from climate change in... Africa. The second question is this, it seems to me that the problem of refugees coming in from refugees, accommodations, etc. rather than some Croatian citizens outside Croatian country, for example. Venezuela. Venezuela is de facto and in war. There are a lot of requests for a return. You haven't got it yet, that's not settled. When El Commander Venezuela died, it fell apart. You have highly qualified people who would come back, these are Croats of the third, fourth generation who were managers of oil companies, etc. They can contribute to this society. I would say that Croatia must primarily take care of them, not African-Asian economic emigrants. You see now in Germany what happens to pay 3,000 euros per head to bring some people back. And that's my brief question, what about those people who want to come back? We have five thousand of these in Chile people who came back, and they'd work for this salary, and they can't come back because it takes them two years of citizenship, two years for a housekeeper, and every six months they have to raise a birth certificate. And that bureaucracy kills that wish, the return of some people who would come back. Those two short questions. How do you see this future situation, the development of the situation in our area here on refugees? And the second question is, what about ours who wants to come back from a place like Venezuela?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63211	Answer. Okay. If you don't want to, you don't have to. Here you go. You just have to get up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63212	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, of course climate change affects people's migration. However, the international protection provided by this law applies only to persons who have been persecuted in the countries of origin, for their own reasons, as I initially said to the origin or political position or belonging to a group, and not to people who leave their countries for economic reasons. As for the arrival of Croatian emigrants, the Law on Croatian Citizenship stipulates that the Croatian emigrant and its descendants can acquire Croatian citizenship. On a daily basis, these demands of Croatian emigrants and their descendants are discussed and made positive solutions in most cases, and it is up to them whether they will also come to the Republic of Croatia when they get Croatian citizenship. One as many as we can estimate the fewer and come, and the rest remain in their present countries or in third countries. There are certainly administrative problems since the requirements are being submitted to our diplomatic and consular representations in the countries, here you mentioned some Latin American countries, countries around the world where our diplomatic and consular offices exist, and we are solving the problems. But I repeat, most people who apply also get Croatian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63213	Let's move on. The other one's a colleague of Bull's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63214	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you said in 2017 there were funds for these asylum seekers so they were at the family ministry you said. Now you're saying it's in the Central Office for Reconstruction and Development and Housing Care, that's what you said. I'm curious about how much that amount is, how many years it comes in these frameworks, how many asylum seekers we have now, how many funds are allocated, and here, for example. through 2017 and what do you expect in 2018? And did we, since we have taken over this obligation as a state, whether these funds are exclusively from the Croatian budget or are they from some European Union funds or do I not know, or are they exclusively the budgetary means of Croatian citizens? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63215	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63216	Dear Mr. Representative, it has been mostly from the state budget so far, but the funds from the European funds have also been used primarily from the so-called so-called. Amif, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is using funds from that fund and currently for editing 33 apartments that will be inhabitable sometime in the early spring, in the 3rd, 4th month for this purpose, so for persons who are or will be granted international protection in the Republic of Croatia. Not to repeat these reasons that I pointed out, this Central State Office is a body that has long experience, since the end of the war, and during the war, and we think this purpose will go much better through this Central State Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63217	Let's go to the debate now, first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63218	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, the esteemed state secretaries, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, Pa, the Secretary of State has made it clear that in the coming time an increase in the number of persons with international protection in the country concerned and in accordance with the Government's decision on the transfer and relocation of third-country nationals or stateless persons is expected, in accordance with the decisions of the Council of Europe of September 2015, to adopt the criteria for the distribution of burdens under the principle of solidarity and accountability where the Republic of Croatia undertakes to participate in the European programme of relocation and resettlement of third-country nationals or stateless persons who fulfil those conditions. I would not particularly be apostrophe, except here, to mention that the decision through two Council of Europe decisions is that Croatia has committed to accepting a total of 1583 people who need international protection. It should be noted that this year our country has made a decision to relocate third-country nationals or stateless persons who meet these conditions and will participate in the adoption of 100 non-citizens in the following year. The Secretary of State has already presented the figures that have been realised, so by 30 October 78 persons have been transferred to the Republic of Croatia, but it is necessary to urgently resolve the issue of the accommodation of those persons and the following exactly and the most encouraged are the amendments to this law where the right to accommodation is defined in Article 67, so in one precise way, this issue is addressed in order to achieve a more efficient practice and rational use of all available housing units for this purpose. What has been defined so far as the process of exercising the right to accommodation has been initiated by applying to the competent social care centre, however, the proposed amendments to the law are prescribed that a solution to the social care centre as a first-degree body may be lodged by the applicant within 15 days of the delivery of the solution but its appeal does not have a suspended character or delaying the implementation of the solution. In the existing solutions, only one condition is provided for which the asylum can stop the right to accommodation, so while, that was the reason for refusing the offered accommodation, while practically these amended additions, which we welcome, were taxed by a total of 7 legal conditions for the termination of that right. I believe that this is very positive, and this will also reduce the space for possible abuse of that right. I'm not going to pick them up now. The paper is also that, in addition to the existing provisions of Article 67, provisions on the participation of asylum seekers or foreigners in the payment of accommodation costs have been specified, which has not been the case so far. Therefore, this was intended only as an option, so the inclusion of a completely new provision, whereby the competent social care centre after the implementation of the decision on the recognition of the right to accommodation, gives the authority to claim whether an asylum or an old man has money or property which could be involved in paying the costs of accommodation. Therefore, there remains the possibility to abolish the solution, to make a new solution to the accommodation which recognises me to the right to accommodation and to establish the obligation to participate in the payment of accommodation costs. So that's also very good. And what is significant, the Secretary of State mentioned this in his address that Article 67a, states that the competent authority, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which, on the basis of a decision on the recognition of the right to accommodation, is competent to ensure accommodation for asylum seekers and foreigners under subsidiary protection in housing units, whether owned by the Republic of Croatia or housing units defined and agreed by that body under its agreements. Therefore, it may conclude a lease, sublet and in a similar manner and regulate the issue to the maximum of 2 years from the date of enforcement of the decision on the approval of international protection. This office introduces an assigned housing unit of an asylum or a foreigner. The reason for the introduction of this new body stemmed from the need for the competent social care ministry not equipped with sufficient housing capacity to meet the needs of the accommodation of persons for whom international protection has been granted. So, that this ministry is being deployed and the practical introduction of the Central State Office of Reconstruction and Housing Care, so as a body that has experience in this care, here in the Homeland War and the returnees, there is enough knowledge, capacity and capacity to take over that person, it is believed that this will help to regulate these problems more effectively. Following all of this, and with regard to the proposed legislative changes and additions aimed primarily at more effective, rational implementation of asylum seekers and foreigners' rights under the subsidiary protection of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives supports the bill. And I can also say on behalf of the Assembly Committee on National Security and Internal Policy, which, at its last session, unanimously adopted this Amendment to the Law, is being given full support for amending this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63219	We're going to another debate. A SDP representative club, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63220	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the Law and the final draft of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on International and Temporary Protection, we must remember that the area of international and temporary protection in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the law adopted on 2 July 2015 and should return to that time when in crisis years after the war broke out, let's say so in the area of Syria and the surrounding states, when a large amount of refugees were headed towards the European Union and when the European Union met with a crisis which it had not had until then, and that is to say that people are running away from the war, to run away from the problem and this matter had to be regulated. I am proud of how Croatia managed when it was in this situation and how it is without crisis, without incidents and we see what is happening in some countries of the European Union hundreds of thousands of people have gone through Croatia and how we have acted as a country that understands people in need, which has helped people in need and has not had a problem with these people going through Croatia and that when they pass through Croatia, they have a decent support, help and every possible protection. On the other hand, given that the problem is concentrated throughout the European Union, it is normal for Croatia as a member to participate in its resolution and that some countries that are exposed to these problems such as Greece and Italy must have assistance and other countries within the European Union, or in some way this must be a common solution to a problem that is not only Greece and Italy but is the problem of the entire European Union. And on this side absolutely supports the SDP's Club of Representatives and amendments to this law that will enable Croatia to fulfil its commitments, to continue to participate constructively and with dignity in this whole problem and to enable that commitment that we have made to accommodate one part of the asylum people in Croatia and thus contribute to solving the problem. What is proposed in the law, the way it would be handled, the procedures, the procedure of the responsible person myself, the responsible institutions I think are logically set, and that all must be supported because we must be aware that the crisis that appears to be going on and the war is finally ending after a long number of years may be managed somehow, the problem should be resolved most at the heart, meaning in the country where this is happening, or Syria, possibly Turkey which has received the largest number of refugees but we must be aware that one people who have escaped from war will inevitably end up in the European Union and that Croatia must take responsibility there and thus be involved in the solution of the problem and therefore the SDP Representatives Club supports this law and we hope that the situation with refugees in the Republic of Croatia will continue without incidents and in the future as it has been, as it has been, in general, until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-05-0.u63221	Thank you. We don't have a replica, which means we've come to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And just an announcement for tomorrow. We continue as announced. I'll see you at 9.30. Good-bye, everyone. The session was interrupted at 1620 hours. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Temporary Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 233, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and became an integral part of the final draft law on the basis of Article 202. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Temporary Protection, please vote. I find that most votes, 122 votes in favour, 3 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Temporary Protection.
