ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24760	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP representative's club is asking for a ten-minute break to address the Assembly in light of the views expressed yesterday by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24761	You're welcome, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24762	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, on behalf of the HSS Club, we're looking for a five-minute break to warn of the current bad situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24763	Representative Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24764	On behalf of the party We change Croatia we are looking for a break of five minutes or ten not important, a matter of politics and economy, a problem of politics and economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24765	Thank you. Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24766	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I would like to talk about the misdemeanours conducted in the courts and the irregularities that are taking place and about the latest process of the DORH which has refused to act on the application of the Franak Association.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24767	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24768	The HDZ Club also wants a ten-minute break to show about yesterday's speech by the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24769	Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24770	On behalf of the club MOST, I request a ten-minute break in the closed accounts of our citizens of the Croatian Post Bank and on the case of Mr Juncker's statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24771	If there are no other demands, I'm setting a ten-minute break. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] A few club MPs asked for a break. The first club of MPs who requested a break is the SDP's Representatives' Club. On their behalf, MP Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24773	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, the SDP club has asked for a break to warn the president of the European Commission, Mr. Juncker, given to the Slovenian news agency STA on his upcoming visit to Slovenia. And Mr Juncker said the European Commission supports the arbitration process between Croatia and Slovenia and continues. So it's that arbitration process that the Croatian retreated from. It is the process where the Croatian government broke the agreement, an arbitration agreement based on parliament's decision, which was reached unanimously with 141 votes. It is the process in which Croatia withdrew and terminated the contract due to a significant violation of the arbitration agreement itself. It is the process in which inappropriate communication, the illegal communication of Slovenian representative Drennik and one of Sokolec’s arbiters has been demonstrated. This is the procedure in which in an illegal, illegal way, materials, in a file, in a case on which the court was to decide, materials inserted, new evidence inserted, new papers, new maps. That process has become contaminated. This made the procedure illegal, contrary to the arbitration agreement, and therefore Croatia withdrew from it. President Juncker says the commission supports an arbitration process that is in the interest of legal certainty for both sides and in the interest of a smooth and effective application of EU rules. Croatia has voluntarily concluded an agreement with Slovenia that remains in force. I hope that both sides will fully and unconditionally support the court's decision when it is made. So what kind of message does the European Commission send to countries that want to settle their border disputes peacefully, through arbitration. And let us remember, in Southeast Europe, that in the Balkans is a handful, almost everything. Whether the commission says it will tolerate illegal behaviour in international, legal and political practice, that the judgments brought against international law will be recognised in illegal proceedings. What kind of message is that? Does the commission want to order the state to do everything in their power, to take all measures and actions to achieve its objectives in the arbitration process, even if these measures and actions are illegal and that such a verdict will eventually be recognised? Does the commission want to tell us that the target justifies the means? Is she calling Machiavellia? I hope not because otherwise it would be a disaster. It would be the twilight of the EU. And what does Croatian diplomacy do all the time? What does the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs do? Does he explain to the European Commission what really happened? Did the minister protect Croatia's national interests in this case or does he deal only with the secret deposit of human rights statements presented by Croatia in the European Union as the most conservative country causing disappointment, deep disappointment in European circles, causing great bitterness in the Croatian public? Does the Minister explain to the European Commission what is an abortion and a traditional marriage or a minister explains why the agreement between Slovenia and Croatia is no longer in force and why the Croatian one has withdrawn from it? Has the government shown itself about the statements made by the president of the Juncker Commission? It's not. What's he doing? He's asleep. And let us remember once again, this House unanimously made a decision with 141 votes that Croatia should terminate the arbitration agreement with Slovenia and tasked the government to implement the decision. The SDP government did so and broke the contract, Croatia is no longer part of the arbitration process. However, the HDZ government is unable to explain the reasons, legally justified, politically logical why we did so and why HDZ was in favour. Well gentlemen, if you can't get the support of the European Commission and understanding, then the Croatian Parliament would do what the Government should do. And that is why we are proposing to draw a conclusion that we will make to the European Commission and explain the reasons why we withdrew from this agreement and broke it. Thank you and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24774	The HSS representative club also requested a break. In their name will be a representative of Ana-Marie Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24775	Thank you, Your Honor. This way, the Croatian Peasant Party wants to warn of the confusion that has taken place with regard to reducing the VAT rate in agriculture. "The hills were shaking, the mouse was born," so we can describe briefly the work of the Minister of Agriculture. When one sees an irregularity, the minister puts himself very harshly in public and we have the impression that the problem will soon be resolved. That's how it happened with salmonella, that's how it happened with the poultry, and apparently that's how it intends to solve the problem with the reduced VAT rate. A 13% VAT was introduced for seed rice, for peanuts, cotton seed for sowing, castus seed. The 25% VAT remained for beans, vegetables, strawberries, nuts, soil enhancers. To live in a state of absurdity is a lot of examples, but this last one really goes on the back of Minister Maric and Tolusic. Namely, with what confuses farmers now become familiar with everyone. I bet a lot of citizens who look at us don't even know exactly what castors are. But there's the ministry that decided that the country's vague agricultural strategy is exactly peanuts and castus something that we need to encourage, and our traditional cultures don't need. We can also hear how these measures were prescribed by experts from the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Agriculture, which they can only believe that they prefer peanuts than barley. If our farmers decide to protest, tell whom to turn to. Did Minister Maric get another resort? It's a strange country where agricultural measures are written by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Agriculture argues that they did not directly participate in the amendments to the Regulation because the tax policy is in the power of the Ministry of Finance, so they could not affect the list of products for which the reduced tax rate was introduced. This reminds me of songs for the children of our Luke Paletka "Someone must also think about the humor of the citizens". It's just that farmers don't think this is funny. I wonder if any of those who wrote this bill have consulted experts or people who live on agriculture. The Croatian Peasant Party has proposed amendments and we asked for a reduced rate of use for both veterinary medicinal products and for all agricultural products and we knew it would be rejected. But we didn't even dream that a reduced VAT rate could be introduced on peanuts or castors. There are obviously more experts in agriculture at the Ministry of Finance and it is probably a clear view of agriculture from Zagreb than from the village. If there was a major confusion, it also shows that some of the manufacturers, traders and distributors are incomprehensible if they fall into livestock and cattle yeast, bicarbonate soda as well as some finished blood mixes and mineral vitamin supplements, and one charge them with 13 and the other with 25% VAT. We need to send an inquiry to the Ministry of Finance, so wait for an answer. I'm sure he'll be here by the end of the year, and by then maybe a reduced rate will be lifted, so there'll be no confusion. That we do not have any strategy or plan in agriculture also shows the fact that the Ministry of Finance is telling if it is confirmed in the coming months that the re-promaterial, seedling and seed, or farm food in retail, has not been cheaped and the ministry is expected to consider a new proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of the tax rate to 25%. Why was this not applied to other products where VAT was reduced and the price remained the same? Unfortunately, agriculture is obviously not a priority to this government. Decisions are made ad hoc and let go of test balloons in public according to the old one if it passes, pass. When the public and the media are on their feet, strict measures are announced, and in the end there is nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24776	Representative Ivica Misic will speak on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24777	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Club Let's change Croatia we want to talk about the problem of economics and politics. What's going on here? You all know very well there is also a businessman that businessmen come into one big problem when it comes to politics and the opening up of businesses, investment and everything else that binds to one entrepreneur. I'll try and tell you about a specific case that a businessman addressed to me precisely from Slavonski Brod one village of Sibinj, where a man invested some 2 million euros in the same hall somewhere 5,000 square meters, 600 thousand in equipment for 5 years cannot get permission to open his company, he can't get access road, he can't get water, he can't get electricity. What's going on here? Why did I stress politics? What my colleague Bull used to say was that these are the sheriffs of the locals. In this example, it could be said that the sheriffs who run this village do not allow one man of such investment, so much investment means 2 million and 600 thousand euros invested 5 years of waiting, cannot open one company and in that same village, the state donated that land just to develop the economy and then local powers put someone aside and torture it for five years. I'd say politics and the economy. It's the same thing when you put a cow in a baby and then you don't see it. What's going on? We know that she will eat uncontrollably and eventually die. So it's similar when you give individual politicians authority to determine the rules of the economy and what happens? The economy is collapsing. We see, we all see that in this country the economy is going down, not to talk about my Slavonia where the 15,000 farms are closed, the 5 billion kunas that have been given to the farms are blocked, the farms are standing empty. That's when politics comes in to solve that problem. Politics should also be monitored by this problem in Slavonski Brod. I'm warning the government and I'm warning the ministers who are set up for this problem to go there and see why this man has been unable to open his own company for five years. We have 105,000 crafts in Croatia. 25 grand is closed, and 40 grand is under wraps. Why is it under wraps? Because it's expensive electricity, expensive giving to workers, and everything else is, and then it's being drawn by the state, and normally it means 40,000 blocked, most of it will fail. If we're looking at 25 grand closed, 40 grand blocked, that's about 75 grand, that's maybe 60 thousand jobs, maybe more. Of course, when Agrokor's problem happens, the whole country gets up, trying to help Agrokor. Sure, it's one big company of ours, but who's helping this little craftsman with 3, 5, 10, 15 employees? No one. 70,000 workers who disappear from the market, it's nobody's fault. Gentlemen, we enjoy Croatia here, in the ministries, not to tell the municipalities where some of the mayors of the municipalities, we can freely call them sheriffs. And I hope after these elections that will come now that such sheriffs will no longer be in power and that people who will help this people will be chosen, not who will win for their own interests. So I'm going to end up on this, and I'm asking the Ministry to specifically on this issue where a man of 100 workers needs to be hired and 2 billion and 600 has already invested money to try to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24778	The Live Wall and SAGA club also requested a break. In their name will be the representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24779	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk about my subject that I always talk about. Namely, the Franak Association reported the banks in violation of the DORH by half last year, and we expected the State's Attorney's Office to initiate criminal proceedings at the competent criminal courts. Last week we received reports from the State's Attorney's Office that the State's Attorney's office will not initiate these proceedings but has transferred the ball to the CNB. And we've just reported in our report that the CNB does not want to prosecute banks, that the CNB considers banks to be operating legally and that's why we asked the State's Attorney to initiate these misdemeanour proceedings. And after all, the State's Attorney's office decides to transfer the ball to the CNB and thus actually plays a kind of ping-pong with billions of kunas that can be made to the state budget through misdemeanor procedures. Meanwhile, before that, citizens were self-inflicted infringing courts, several hundred first-degree verdicts being punished by banks from 80,000 kuna and up to 150,000 kuna fines were made. Infringement courts were confused about this and above all, the High Criminal Court, so a request was requested to assess the constitutionality of the constitutional provisions of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court decided that these infringements were the offices. The EU court has also decided that these infringements can be followed, so there are no obstacles to criminal punishment by banks. And since it is also a court case from the EU in the Constitutional Court that they have made a decision that can be mistreated against Croatian banks, that there are no obstacles to this, suddenly someone in the judicial authority has decided to give their interpretation of the situation. So that's how we came up with all sorts of instructions to the misdemeanors what to do. It is a presentation that begins like this, in fact it is only part of the presentation, and part of the presentation reads, "In order to finalise the position of this court regarding the correct application of Article 26(1), subparagraph 28. The consumer credit law that speaks of infringement provisions," that is, the court's position. What court? On 27 October 2016, which court gave its opinion on how infringements should be handled? And that opinion is a lot of lies. First of all, it says that banks agreed under the Law on Mandatory Liabilities of Loan Contracts before the Consumer Credit Act entered into force, that is simply not true. And the evidence is a powerful verdict in the case of Franak where it was clearly and unequivocally found that banks unfairly negotiated a variable interest rate. Afterwards, this person from the court, because he writes the position of this court, claims that banks did not have to negotiate with their debtors on the basis of the Consumer Credit Act, but that it was enough to inform the debtors only in the existing contracts in which it was not agreed. This is a direct violation of the Law on Mandatory Relations where it clearly states that the contractual relationship is only the office if it represents the will of the two Contracting Parties. And finally, worst of all, it says that if banks sent notes to debtors in existing credit agreements on interest parameters, in which case such banks would not be subject to criminal liability. We have already made this public, then through the media I hear from the president of the Association of Croatian Judges, Mr Sesa that it is no interpretation, that it is just someone's opinion, and it begins from the point of view of this court. Therefore, the Association of Croatian Judges will not investigate this case, and should investigate this case, the State Judiciary Council will also not investigate this case, and should. We've informed the Justice Department about this, and we've filed criminal charges with the DORH against the unknown perpetrator because of these ghastly lies that appear to be presented to the judges of the criminal courts and who are trying to get the judges of the criminal courts to release banks from criminal responsibility, and banks can be punished from 9 to 25 billion kuna for that. And then after all, it's no wonder that we have this kind of information that banks in 2016 have made the biggest profit in the last 10 years. It wouldn't be possible to operate legally, it's only possible because they manipulate interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24780	The HDZ advocates' club also requested a break. In their name will speak MP Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24781	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, MP Klisovic spoke of Mr. President of the European Commission, Mr. Juncker and his statements regarding arbitration. So we remember these arbitration very well. There is also Minister Jandrokovic, at the time he was foreign minister. The arbitration was concluded between Croatia and Slovenia in 2009. They signed the document by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Kosor and Mr Pahor, as president of the Slovenian government. The European Commission is not a signator of the document, it is gone, no European Commission. Croatia and Slovenia. When it started in 2010, it started, and then we established in 2015 that our Slovenian friends wanted to cheat, cheat some tricks on the court, influence the judges, it was established, then HDZ asked the Croatian Parliament, HDZ, I repeat, can be found in documents to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, and we then suggested that we also reach a conclusion in the Croatian Parliament on the government's commitment to the initiation of the procedure for ending the agreement. And thank God, it was nice, at that time to conclude, the then government of the Republic of Croatia, was President Milanovic to accept the consensus, there was a meeting in the government of the Republic of Croatia and the government made a decision to conclude the parliament, it made a decision to come out of the agreement. For Croatia, the matter is resolved. Whatever our friend Mr. Juncker is saying or someone else is no longer interested in us. There is a Croatian Parliament, there is a Croatian government and there is only outside the Croatian Parliament there is only a dear God, no one else. Therefore, there is no fear of Mr. Klisovic. We have a consensus, we have a unanimous conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, we have our own government, we have our mechanisms, we have... Foreign affairs, diplomacy and she will work on it and explain it again if there is a need for what happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But whatever anyone's saying in Brussels or somewhere else, we don't care. Because there is a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament that we should leave this agreement because our friends next door Slovenians wanted to cheat tricks, little influence on judges and some lunches, some dinners, etc., we know that. It has nothing to do with it, the agreement is dead to Croatia, it no longer exists. We will find a solution with Slovenians, bilaterally or otherwise, it does not matter, but this agreement for Croatia is no longer valid. As Slovenians have an action plan for implementation and we have an action plan. The possible verdict will never be implemented because the agreement is no longer valid for Croatia. And we talked to Mr. Juncker several times and about it while I was in my previous position in the Government about arbitration and we told him that it was a big mistake of the Slovenian side that there was no more arbitration and Mr. Juncker might need to think a little bit about why there is a skeptic, why is there a lack of confidence in European institutions? Because inappropriate statements are made, because Mr. Juncker interferes in fact, I must also say as a Croatian representative who is not his. The European Commission may have an opinion but it is not relevant in this case because it is not a party to the procedure. I repeat, the parties to the procedure only Croatia and Slovenia were, Croatia is no longer and the matter is resolved. It is good that Mr Juncker presented the White Paper, that it represents ideas in the reform of the European Union, it must be reformed but in a way to return to the institutions, to return to the EU institutions the confidence of citizens. In this way, it is certain that Croatian citizens cannot be happy and satisfied because only the skepticism can be increased. I repeat, there is no dilemma, Croatia will be clear in its position that we took here two years ago, outside of the Parliament is only God. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24782	The club of representatives of the Independent Lists also called for a break. In their name will speak MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24783	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The scandalous statement yesterday by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, asking Croatia to volunteer, which requires Croatia to respect the arbitration agreement because it has voluntarily joined and concluded an agreement with Slovenia. And it requires that we respect it unconditionally. Juncker forgets that the ab arbitration process is deeply compromised due to scandals on the part of Slovenia where the Slovenian representative and one of the arbitarians are in communication. How would you make that... held that it was a case of Luxembourg in such a or similar dispute as regards the border and the relevant national interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is the fact that the Croatian Parliament unanimously made a decision on this agreement and that it can unanimously break the agreement and Mr Juncker can't act like you... The officials of Brussels who asked us to also treat the Croatian People's Bank as they command us to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, you will not because Croatia is an independent state but we also have a problem with what diplomacy is, either from the HDZ Government, former or SDP Government, which obviously did not fit well enough and explained this decision to our partners in the EU. When Croatia passes these, we see such orders, i.e. Directives and humiliations we have a problem that I wanted to say that more than 3,000 people have been blocked by their account because the Croatian Bank sold to the Debt Search Agency, means the debts of those people who are essentially unable to take money from protected accounts, or can receive their pension on account. That's 80 kuna. The Croatian Post Bank, which is a Croatian bank, has now placed the Executive Act protected, the protected account is protected and is in front of the banks. But the Croatian Post Bank and their administration, and we manage the Croatian Post Office because the state put the banks above the Executive Act. Today three and a half thousand people, among them are numerous Croatian defenders with small pensions. This is even 70 kuna debts that can't be raised, because some foreign company has been sold the debt of these people and blocked their account. And the account that has the right and this protected account. I call on the management of the Post Office which obviously worked here in the interest of the agency, private debt collection agencies to rapidly unblock our citizens because we have had enough markets completed and blocked, and this behaviour where we have our own state bank that should protect Croatian citizens, Croatian private business entities it has blocked 3 and a half thousand Croatian defenders and other pensioners for minor debts so that they cannot raise their money from a protected account. I call upon the relevant ministry to urgently resolve this problem with the administration. The citizens are in a difficult situation anyway. I was called by numerous Croatian defenders retired and other our citizens who are in a difficult state that they can't raise one kuna without bread because of the Administration of the Croatian Post Office who is very well entrenched by his listeners of any party in power and party. Let them protect Croatia's postal bank as our people's property, and we are obliged to stop this process where the private interests of certain foreign entities are placed above our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u24784	Thank you, Agent Buljo. We're moving on to the agenda. The first item is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, first reading P.Z.E. No. 93. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mario Šiljeg, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32432	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, therefore the Air Protection Act came into force on 24 November 2011, and was then in line with EU rules governing air quality management and evaluation as well as quota trading schemes, greenhouse gas emissions. In the period since its adoption, the EU has adopted a number of new regulations that regulate and monitor greenhouse gas emissions, policies and measures to reduce them, and adapt to climate change. Regulations have also been adopted concerning the establishment and application of the Union register for the monitoring of emission trading systems, the methodology of effective monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions reporting at national level, and the obligation to accreditation of verifiers which verify the reports of the operator of the plant or aircraft operator in the framework of the greenhouse gas emission trading system. Regarding substances that damage the ozone layer and the EU's florad greenhouse gases, it has adopted a series of new regulations that regulate the reduction and elimination of the consumption of ozone-damaging substances. In view of the need to bring national legislation into line with the acquis adopted by the end of 2013, the Croatian Parliament has already adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection which entered into force in 2014. The current proposal to amend and supplement laws plans to transpose the provisions of the EU legislation since then. The adoption of this law will contribute to significant harmonisation with the EU's acquis in the area of air protection, ozone layer and climate change mitigation, and the process will continue with the adoption of implementing rules and documents. It will also remove the inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the existing legislative framework observed in the previous period with a view to the effective and transparent application of the established legislative framework. Institutional conditions for the implementation of climate and ozone protection obligations will be improved. And what is very important, what we would like to stress, is that this proposal to amend and supplement laws also abolish certain fees for opening and keeping accounts in the Union register and that it is in line with the reform measures of reducing and abolishing the non-taxable giving of this Government. For the implementation of this law, it is important to emphasise that there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget, and taking into account all these considerations, the need to adopt this law is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32433	Representative Maras requested the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32434	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. I am glad that this law comes in the process and what in some way ensures quality and standards that will be higher than what was until yesterday, but I am not glad to hear the messages, not act on the things that plague our citizens. Here we heard yesterday a message from the neighbouring country related to Slavonski Brod and the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, where the quality of the air was caused by production in the Bosnian Ship, and the president of Republika Srpska Mr. Dodig says that Croatia is giving false information that they will not modernize anything, etc. So it's impossible to separate these two topics and it would be good if, given that you're proposing this law on quality and air cleanness to take a little more care of the quality of air in Slavonski Brod, not to do procedurally certain things that do not bring and contribute to the quality of life of our fellow citizens. I was particularly disappointed by the visit of the President of the Republic a few days ago that simply by promotional action went to Slavonski Brod, and now it is seen neither that the Russians react nor that the people of Republika Srpska react. So she spent the day, went there, killed the time, and did nothing. Do something, make it impossible for our people in Slavonski Brod to be poisoned with non-quality air coming from a factory in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32435	Replication response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Assembly Attorney. I would like to stress that this government is very aware of the air quality problem in Slavonski Brod and I would like to stress in this regard that we are currently operating in three directions. The first course is proposed to gasify the Republic of Croatia according to the Rafineria in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with this connection they can stress that a number of preliminary meetings have been carried out at the Ministry of Environmental Protection with Company Plinarro. Plinacro company sees that interest definitely. And on the other hand I can be happy to say that even by the Russian owner from the Bosnian Ship on such a proposal came positive comments so that this side too I am sure to be involved in solving this problem. In addition to gasification, it is also at interstate level with BiH, and I would like to stress in this respect that Prime Minister Plenkovic announced and a joint session of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH is soon organised, where the problem of air quality is with a few more environmental problems that we have with BiH is one of the main topics. You must be aware and we must all be aware that this is a very big problem, if you remember during your government when your colleague, Zmajlovic, took office as Minister of Environmental Protection, said he would solve the problem within a year. The problem is big, but here we are making every effort on every track to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32437	Thank you, Secretary of State. Representative Maras speaks on behalf of the Environment and Nature Protection Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 8th session of 16 February 2017, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act submitted by the Government by an act of 9 February 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. In the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that the proposed law complies with the EU acquis, in the area of air protection, ozone layer and climate change mitigation, and that process will continue with the adoption of implementing rules and documents. In the period of adoption of the EU Air Protection Act, it adopted a series of new regulations that regulate the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, policies and measures to reduce them, and adaptation to climate change, the establishment and application of the Union register for monitoring emissions trading system, the methodology for effective monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions reporting at national level, and the obligation to accreditation of verifiers which verify the reports of the plant operator or aircraft operator in the framework of the greenhouse gas emission trading system. Regarding things that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases, the EU has adopted a series of new regulations that regulate the reduction and elimination of the consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases. The Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next conclusion, that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32439	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the word "Liv Wall Representatives Club" and "SNAGA" Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32440	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have the Air Protection Act on the agenda, reading the law which consists of harmonising with EU regulations, so I have listed as many as 33 directives on decisions or regulations in Europe that are in line here. With all this harmonisation I don't know if we'll have anything else to do in a few years but raise our hands, we agree. I don't think that's a good direction, as far as that goes. First of all, he would like to ask the exhibitor to explain why the jurisdiction in this law was transferred from the Environment Protection Agency to the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, so if he could explain the change in jurisdiction a little more after my debate. The law refers to air protection, ozone layer and climate, this High House protects many things, also needs protection and air, we could even say that air is a constitutional category, in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that with freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, etc., conservation of nature and human environment is the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that everyone has the right to live and that the state provides conditions for a healthy life. The air we know is not limited to trade agreements, continents, nations or states, it does not respect these borders, it circulates everywhere, so this is not only a Croatian problem or a European problem, this is a world issue. We know that our entire world is struggling with many environmental problems and pollutions, not just air, but water, groundwater, oceans, respect for different kinds of habitats, soils, agricultural surfaces. It's not a question, I repeat again to one nation, it's a question of the entire human race and the entire human civilization. So we need to put environmental protection first... long-term survival depends. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, as far as air protection is concerned in the world, millions of people die annually from the various consequences of health caused by air pollution. So, in 2014, the World Health Organization of colleagues and colleagues, the year for which the data are processed, is 92% of the world's population, 92% of the world's population lives in areas where the World Health Organization's air quality guidelines are not met. So as many as 92% of the population lives in such conditions, somewhere more, somewhere less. The World Health Organization also states that in 2012, 3 million people in the world died both in urban and rural areas of air pollution diseases, as much as 88% of those three million in low and medium income countries. We would say that in poor countries, mostly in the 3rd world, or developing countries. One of the largest components of air pollution with industry is certainly transport. The most radical condition of the moment is in China. So even 678 micrograms of harmful PN2.5 floating particles were measured recently in Beijing while the World Health Organization's recommendation is 25. So instead of 25, what is the recommendation of 678? And we know, the news comes to us, it's also a chronic problem, recently the whole of North China has been wrapped under air pollution, the problems are long-term, and so far no solution is monitored. Particles measuring less than 2.5 micrometers, penetrate the lungs and may cause heart attack, stroke, lung cancer, asthma, and many other harmful health effects. It is also important to state at the global level that Health Effects Institute, based in Boston, recently said that over half of the deaths caused by global air pollution, such as 3 million cases, is happening in China and India, in developing countries. In China, the worst causes of carbon pollution and its use more than tripled between the 1990s and 2013 as the number of deaths increased to 67% during the same period. A major problem with coal exists also in Poland because the population likes to heat on coal and it is relatively widespread and in the Republic of Croatia which I will talk about more or less later in the debate. The Chinese are struggling with this problem by declaring a red alarm, so they recently shut down or restrict the work of as many as 1200 factories, a huge number, but not so large for one China. However, not everything is so black, colleagues and colleagues, we in Europe are still above the global average. As far as transport is concerned, it is important to say that Germany is the EU's most powerful country, one of the world's most powerful countries, or its home, Bundesrat, has adopted a resolution prohibiting the sale of an internal combustion engine in the EU by 2030. So in about 13 years, you won't be able to buy a car with a petrol or a diesel engine anymore. So only non-emission vehicles will be allowed on the market afterwards says the resolution. Vehicles with internal combustion engines purchased before that time limit may be used but no more new ones may be purchased. I would dare say that the younger generations will soon not even know what a petrol engine is, at least as far as Europe is concerned. It'll be some kind of invention from the past like today's steam machine. Here I am in my life since the '90s, so I haven't had a chance to see in the steam engine drive, all of them left. Unless we take this locomotive to Zagreb Station and elsewhere. Similar initiatives by colleagues and colleagues exist in the Netherlands and Norway, the goal there is to fully prohibit the use of petrol, diesel engines but not until 2030, as Germany said, that is, by 2025. India has also made a strong shift in the restriction of therefore air pollution from traffic, so the Indian Energy Minister confirmed that his government plans that India will become a country in which 100% of the vehicles will be electric within 14 years. Also an ambitious goal, we wish India all the happiness. As far as Croatia is concerned, in Croatia, thank God we do not have an alarming state on average as regards air pollution, especially not as it is in India or China. If we go to the Environment Protection Agency, we'll see a list of 50 measurement stations. Out of 50 measurement stations, almost all stations in Croatia have low-level air pollution indices or very low pollution levels. The condition of this morning is that the middle index had only a measuring station in Kutina, and a high pollution index measuring station in Slavonski Brod. Our chronic problem in Slavonski Brod, which the government has been unable to solve for eight long years. By law, one of these articles is also amended in this bill. Therefore, Article 46 provides that, in a specific zone or agglomeration, air pollutant levels exceed any limit value or target value, an action plan for air improvement shall be adopted in each of these cases. So that's how the plan was brought to Slavonski Brod. You can easily access it, it is also published on the web pages. Here is the latest situation in Slavonski Brod from this year, so from January 1st to January 31st 2017, the daily limit value of floating particles PM10 has been exceeded even 23 times, and the Regulation on levels of pollution in the air says it must not be exceeded more than 35 times during the calendar year, and we have almost reached that deadline in the first month. Escalation was one of the escalations in Slavonski Brod in the year 1.10.4. when even 1302 micrograms per metre of cubicity was the concentration of PM25 particles. If you remember I told China that it was about 700, so you can imagine what a difficult situation it was. Here's one letter, so at the measurement stations, the data is devastating. Several times, Slavonski Brod is the most polluted city in Europe. The heavy metals found in the country are forbidden to plant fruit and vegetables near the refinery. Heavy metals remain in the ground and come in contact with water. Floating particles enter the air system and melt into it and never come out. Brodians become patients, allergies, asmatics in the worst case oncology patients. The children are getting harder to breathe, the city will become a city without people because people are moving out for health. No one can blame them for their coworkers and colleagues. I say we put our health absolutely ahead of any profit, in front of any political interest. You've seen the world change, old technologies will become the past, political relations will change in the world. I hope that I have warned both you colleagues and the Croatian public about the trends that are happening in the world, I invite you to follow these trends and put people first, so life in this world ahead of inanimate things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32441	I thank you, too. We don't have a replica, so we move on to another debate on behalf of the club. It is a club of representatives of the Independent Lists and distinguished colleague Ljubica Ambrusec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32442	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary Šiljeg. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, I would like to highlight first and foremost the importance of the adoption of this law, and then the very importance of the topic of air protection necessary for life, as well as our health. This law brings a few important changes. What is changed for legal persons dealing with air quality monitoring are the conditions for legal persons, test laboratories carrying out air quality monitoring activities, emission monitoring activities and air pollution pollution, immovable sources or activities to verify the correctness of the measuring system for continuous measurement of air pollutant emissions and fixed sources in the section relating to the training of workers, i.e. the removal of the certificate of the submitted expert test from the air protection area according to a specific regulation governing the placing of expert tests to carry out environmental protection tasks. We also consider it positive to be referred to as the National Unit for Measurement as a body to accept the report on the testing of equipment according to performance requirements, the reference methods issued in other Member States provided that the tests have been carried out by test laboratories accredited in accordance with the applicable harmonised standard for test and appropriate laboratories to which legal persons provide the same confirmation. What changes this law on air quality assessment is that it defines the State hydrometeorological institution as the competent quality assessment body. Modeling for assessment purposes while the ministry ensures the same in order to fulfil its obligations to the European Commission. It should also be pointed out that these amendments ensure that measurement is carried out in the national network in cases of non-compliance with obligations to be met by reference laboratories, which carry out measurement or some emergency situations. The State hydrometeorological institution as a body operating the network shall ensure that these operations are carried out. I would refer here to, or start from the old 1980s, and just a propos of these sayings of obligations that must be met by reference laboratories that carry out measurements. Namely, since I come from a municipality where I repeat it back in the 1980s I will say one of the larger pigs' farms in the territory of the Republic of Croatia under the authority of the famous owner in the Republic of Croatia, and also a few years back is next to the same farm that counts 2,500 breeding herds that are formerly engaged and may be engaged in agriculture, they know what it means with a round cycle of production. So it's done from the reproductive center to the rounded type of load. You can imagine how much pollution there is with possibly some use of purifiers because long ago it was said that purifiers in these wastewaters would grow fish. But I can tell you that it's simply utopia, the fish have never grown, so they don't grow today. And what do we have? We have several open lagoons that were built before the construction of a biogas plant that was built back several years ago and which has been working back several years a bi-megawatt biogas plant in the system of the Porcine Farm Gradec and I can say that even now there are digestats of liquid form in these lagoons. And I have to say, we have two eco bombs in our environment. We must certainly point out that it was built simply in a settlement where people live and where high-level pollution is. When we talk about reference laboratories, I must also go back as the head of the municipality with our associates, we have launched an independent lab from the level of the Republic of Croatia, and I must also say that we have contacted several laboratories. However, we simply got the answer we cannot come to you to control the air pollution by clearly being under someone’s authority. I'm guessing the same owner who owns the Pig farm in Gradec. So anyway, we were able to find the lab house that made the measurement, but that's by the standards and formulas that were calculated that measure just happened to have no actual air pollution. It is our problem and it is a great pain and we hope that this law will at least succeed in making some changes and that yet our population will somehow be able to live in our community environment without such an intense smell that is to be excused, right now. What is also specifically changed by this law is that for legal persons and craftsmen who perform the activity of service of air conditioning in motor vehicles, the obligation is prescribed to the legal person and craftsman who performs the activity of service of air conditioning in motor vehicles, enrolment in the register run by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, since these persons are exempt from the authorisation from the ministry. What this law also changes for legal persons and craftsmen who wish to obtain the permission of the Ministry of Activity, Service of Devices and Equipment containing substances that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouses is that the conditions for the employment of highly qualified persons are changed. People working elsewhere can also work in their crafts, or companies, which you know by your previous law was not possible. The law provides for the production and delivery of a series of reports in the area of climate change containing data from different resors. It shall be ensured compliance with the data that individual resolutions only deliver from the area of their jurisdiction. Furthermore, the Air Protection Act prescribes the participation of experts in the sector, source and drain of greenhouse gas emissions in the data collection process, the review of the reports, and their audits. In particular, it shall be taken into account that these data are consistent with the data that individual resolutions provide in the EU and international databases in the context of carrying out operations under their jurisdiction. This also relates to the development of strategic documents related to emissions reduction and climate change adaptation, and to the reporting of the effects of the implementation of measures and projections. In order to achieve continued cooperation, two committees have been established. The Commission for Inter-Sectoral Coordination for the National Monitoring System for Electronic Gas Emissions and the Commission for Inter-Sectoral Policy Coordination and Climate Change mitigation and Adjustment Measures, whose work includes representatives of the central body of the state administration, the academic community, the business world and NGOs and other stakeholders. Operators of the plant may also obtain a permit for greenhouse gas emissions by submitting, in accordance with the Air Protection Act, a request for the issue of greenhouse gas emission licences containing a description of the plant and of the activity, including a technology description of raw materials and auxiliary materials of the sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The application shall be accompanied by a monitoring plan for greenhouse gas emissions. It is also necessary to mention the way in which the purposes for the use of the auctioned financial resources have been chosen. The EU Directive on the trading system, greenhouse gas emission units, in addition to the way auction rights are allocated to members, also provides for the purpose of auctioning financial resources. The purpose applies exclusively to five areas related to climate change. In the first instance, these are measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, for emissions and sectors not covered by the trading system, part of industrial processes such as agriculture, forestry, waste management, household and services, transport, etc. For Member States and the Republic of Croatia, an annual national quota which must not be exceeded has been established and emission reduction measures must be implemented in these sectors. In order to meet these and future commitments, the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia is developed by 2030, with a view to the 2050th year, which is planned to be adopted in 2017 and whose implementation will be financed throughout, in part, by auctioning funds. The second area is the adaptation to climate change in Croatia with its diverse and geographical and climate characteristics vulnerable to climate change and it is therefore important to implement preventive measures and risk mitigation measures in particular. A climate change adaptation strategy is being developed in the Republic of Croatia by 2040 with a view to 2070 and is planned to be adopted in the first quarter of 2018. The third area concerns funding and research and development in the area of mitigation and adaptation to climate change, which can significantly contribute to the development of new activities, economic competitiveness and job creation. The State is obliged to continuously improve the reporting of greenhouse gases for which all more detailed data need to be collected and to carry out the necessary research covering the 4th area of financing. The 5th area of funding relates to the obligation to provide financial and technical support for climate mitigation and state development adaptation measures. I must certainly mention that I hope that through this law, as my colleagues have said before me, the Secretary of State himself, we can hope that not only with the problem that I have in my community and my population, with too much smell spreading from the pig's farm and the biogas plant, are also mentioned by colleagues from Slavonski Brod, whom we have been accomplices recently and also by all these open waste dumps and garbage where people really enjoy the excessive smell, which is really harmful. I'm not just gonna say about the air, I'm gonna say about the groundwater. MOST Independent Lists supports such an amendment to the law and we are aware of the importance of air protection and we hope that this direction will continue to take place in the future. Nature is indeed the only and lasting heritage that we must carefully guard in order to leave it in an intact form to our children and, of course, to our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32443	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32444	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Ambrusec, you spoke from the perspective of someone who is head of the local self-government unit. And you probably have this experience that's not likely but certainly direct. We now know that, in accordance with the existing Air Protection Act and the existing Regulation and existing legislation, in fact, local self-government units can do very little, regardless of this existing legislation if the source of pollution is, say, a farm or a particular plant, etc.. And now the question is, this is the first reading and, of course, that changes are desirable in every sense, but what local self-government can actually do if it's in cases that the owner of a plant, here in your case in Gradec is a pig-goat farm that the pollutant doesn't solve that problem, doesn't want to solve it, but it's just the thing that's the problem. And we know that even in the case of Slavonski Brod, and in this case, and in any case, it's a key owner. It is the owner who pollutes and the problem of pollution should solve the pollutant regardless of all the legislation because no one can secondaryly force someone who is the primary problem. And so almost nothing currently can be done under this law practically in the units of local self-government, and I think there's a lot more room for second reading, for improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32445	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32446	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Vukasnović, yes, you're right. I agree with you when you say what can the local community actually do? The local community is actually the one who, now I'm going to lay it out like I said about the pay phone, is really suffering that smell. So most of the population, I won't tell the whole community, but most of the population located around the farm itself, which is back in the '80s, also to some good fathers and then to assume to the government or whatever it was in the Republic of Croatia that actually took a pig's farm, which, I would say, I would say a great capacity could actually build up in a populated place. It is indeed a sin of people who have agreed to this part of the 1980s but unfortunately it works and we advocate actually that production is going and that production must not be tolerated in the way, because we know for ourselves what position today's agriculture is and also pig farming is also in a very, very invisible situation as to the negative, but we are in favour of production going on. But just like I said, yes, I'm based on a law that may not have been applied that much. Because when you hear from the reference houses that actually work in a way that it's all within the limits of normal. And also when the employer himself tells you that it's all within the limits of normal, then you actually wonder where it's going together. But here we are about to have a municipal council next week that will decide whether or not to make a decision on how to function further in that environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32447	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32448	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ambrusec, in your debate, you also referred to the town of Slavonski Brod, which most of today's speakers will probably do. The refinery of oil in the Bosnian Ship is a serious environmental problem that has been disrupting the quality of life and health of Slavonski Brod's citizens for 8 years. A lot of meetings took place, a lot of things started. Of course, it began to move much earlier in the European Parliament when the Europarliamentary was then, and today the Vice-President of the Government asked this question to the Commissioner of the European Commission for Environmental Protection. On Friday, of course, the president of the Republic of Croatia was in Slavonski Brod and discussed the problem with a lot of quality and good proposals. I hope that as soon as possible, this problem will be dealt with specifically so that citizens of Slavonski Brod can breathe the air they deserve, meaning they are not citizens of the second order. We also know that many young people leave all of Slavonia, especially Slavonski Brod, we are surrounded by investors, surrounded by tourists. So we expect here as soon as possible to solve this problem. But I'll look back here, you've looked back on the changes and additions to the articles that are changing. I will also refer to Article 46(4), which is changing, or in the old law, that deadline was, now 18 months, so by the end of the year in which the excess was determined. In the old law, that deadline was 12 months, so here I am wondering why this deadline has been extended. [[Intruder Jandroković: Fellows please!]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There's no time limit for delivery, so here's why that delivery deadline isn't prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32449	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32450	So here's my colleague, this part of the extension of the deadline and the amendments to the law, it seems to me that our secretary of state will answer that, and as far as the part of Slavonski Brod is concerned, that we are really considering that I am also a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, and there is colleague Maras, where we have been talking about this whole story for Slavonski Brod. Since there are several governments who have dealt with this problem before, I would say a crucial problem indeed in Slavonski Brod and even in the area. I hope that, through one time and the basis of the passed law, some things will change and, of course, towards a better situation that will allow these people to live a normal life, and I hope so also in Slavonski Brod, and throughout Croatia that I have mentioned in the open waste dumps also a new decision from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, making the Waste Management Plan will make many things better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32451	Thank you. We're moving on to the third club of MPs, that's the SDP counseling club. They'll share the discussion of two distinguished colleagues. The first is Martha Luc-Polanc, then Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32452	I thank the President of the Parliament. Today it is before us to amend and supplement the Air Protection Act. The first Air Protection Act was passed in 2011. After that, we have one amendment and an addition to 2014 which, like today's amendments and additions, has been initiated by the implementation of the EU directive in the area of air protection, ozone layer and climate change mitigation, and adaptation to climate change. In addition to this law, air protection in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Environmental Protection Act and by other implementing rules adopted under those two laws. Amendments and additions to these laws are referred to in the introductory part, which further regulates the issue of air protection, ozone protection, climate protection, improvement of institutional conditions for the implementation of obligations in the field of protection, improvement of inspection surveillance and greater compliance with the regulatory provisions relating to air protection. In particular, by noting that this promotion of inspection supervision after reviewing these amendments and additions, I have to admit that I have not seen any major changes and greater powers that would be given control inspections, except possibly there is Article 33, where, at the request of the competent inspector in the field of units of local and regional self-government, special criteria can be applied if there are any major dangers of pollution or suspicion of pollution. And then we have two other legal provisions concerning technical amendments, which means where the inspector is stated to apply other regulations from the European Union. So, I don't think there's anything important that's changed about inspection surveillance. At the beginning of those changes that can be seen, it is now more clearly defined that the implementation of this law is provided by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the technical implementation of the law by the State Hydrometeorological Institute. In addition, it shall carry out technical implementation of air quality assessment measures, modelling for evaluations, for the purposes of assessment and reporting, by introducing and, respectively, in Article 6 of the amendment and addition, and in Article 2 thereof, Article 6 shall be amended and an expert institution shall adopt reports on the examination of equipment according to the performance requirements of the reference methods issued in other Member States, and this is now the State Unit for Measurement. So these institutions are now more clearly listed which are so far as DHMZ has been responsible for the state network, but here it is more clearly defined, much more clearly defined by law as well as the provision that the state network will be financed not only from the state budget but also by the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. As we know this state network of air protection systems is spread in the area of the Republic of Croatia, it includes about twenty measurement stations, 9 is in the area of populated areas, so on. aglomeration, 11 is in rural areas and protected areas. In addition, we also have local areas, so local administration units can still be equipped with different measuring devices in those circumstances where they consider there to be doubt or that there are certain indications that air pollution is involved. So these legal provisions and in general all the laws that we regulate the issue of air, we regulate it in the area of the Republic of Croatia. So as I said, we have this state network at national level that brings air protection programmes brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and makes a ministry. Local air protection plans are developed within environmental plans. These are all programmes and plans to be adopted for a period of five years, and then we go with reports every 4 years produced at national level by the competent agency, and at local level the reports are produced by the administrative bodies of local and regional self-government units. With these amendments and additions, as far as I can see, we have further regulated and regulated the issue of making action plans. So it's in those areas where there's a significant excess of the pollutants or there's a danger they're going to be. These action plans shall be drawn up at local level, with the help of which they are then determined as indicated here, so action plans shall establish sites of excessive damage, general information, competent responsible authority, species and assessment of pollution, origin of pollution, analysis of the situation, etc. The papers on action plans are now defined deadlines, so the deadline is 18 months for drawing up the year in which the pollution has been established, and it is two years for the government to deliver this to the European Commission. These are all regulations and regulations that regulate the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the area, possibly if pollution comes from EU Member States. It has already been mentioned several times, and I must mention this example since I come from Slavonski Brod, so Slavonski Brod is an example of a city where the source of pollution comes from a neighbouring country that is not an EU member. We also have such an option regulated in Article 48(5) and (6), but since we see that this problem in Slavonski Brod still today, and the law was first passed in 2011 so for the full six years it has not been resolved, it is obvious that this legislation is not covered by these amendments and additions, we think that it should be worked on in the future and that is what is missing, or that is what does not solve the specific problem. Here I'm going to say, in Slavonski Brod, from 2010 to today there are measured existed, at first there was one, now two measured exist and at the monthly level an excessive concentration of pollutants is measured which is one month higher than that allowed at the annual level. And that primarily refers to the sulfur and floating particles. This problem has been in the city for eight years, and we know that polluted air has a harmful effect on human health, on the environment, on the health of people at risk of these respiratory systems in citizens, and there is a possibility of causing a reduction in life. Here's what I'm going to say, so in 2011, when this law was passed, the city of Brod has adopted an action plan, that action plan has determined what is the primary cause of pollution. So all of the city's administration implements these legal regulations, all those secondary sources of pollution that are in the area of the town of Brod, they're sort of being rehabilitated or rescheduled. But the primary cause is that the refinery remains an unresolved issue because it is an international problem. International co-operation has also been established, but so far we have no major shifts in the area. I'll leave it to you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32453	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marta Luc-Polanc has given an overview of how the SDP's Club sees, we will support this law, although we believe that in one part it does not provide what we would like in Croatia, which is that all Croatian citizens have the right to clean air, to protect their health, and we see shortcomings in the fact that this is not being implemented in practice. In one part, it does not provide what we would all like in Croatia, which is that all Croatian citizens have the right to clean air, to protect their health, and we see shortcomings in the fact that this is not being implemented in practice. So 8 years or 7 years since we brought in, excuse me, a little less than 7 years since we passed this law has no concrete shifts in either Slavonski Brod or in many other parts of Croatia where air quality is at a low level. How important this is for both the EU and all EU citizens, it says that since the last time the law was amended on 24 April 2014, the European Union has adopted 5 directives and 3 regulations, and therefore we are changing the work and this law and it tells you how important it is, since sometimes the directives and regulations are negotiated at EU level, it is relatively fast and relatively fast that standards are reached and trying to maintain them in the EU. What is unacceptable to us, as we speak here, while we are adopting amendments to the law and supplementing the Air Protection Act, our citizens and citizens of Slavonski Brod are being poisoned. They're still poisoning. Last year measured stations show worse air than it was in 2015 and 2014. The last information we have, almost 200 measurements a year, means from 365 days a year, we have almost 2 hundred days in Slavonski Brod, an unquality air that damages the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we can't let that happen. We can't say it as easily as the secretary of state said it was a gasification solution. Well, gassivikation isn't possible until 2020. What are we waiting for by 2020? And that's the solution this government has been offering us for Slavonski Brod to put up with for another 4.5 years? It's like they haven't had enough patience for 5, 6, 7 or 10 years. So by 2020, we ladies and gentlemen don't have time to wait, or we can do that, but we have to influence the quality of air as a state and the quality of life of our people in Slavonski Brod. And less malignancies and less problems that people in everyday life feel. I will tell you that I am dissatisfied when it comes to air quality and that I have received an answer from the ministry that nothing can be done, that they are talking, that it is the owner's question, that they are trying, here they have a solution about gasification that we will wait for 5 years, etc., and that we are bound by certain laws other than the laws that the Croatian Parliament has brought and which do not prevent the flow of oil into an area that health threatens our citizens. So, what we are announcing here today, the SDP Representatives' Club for the quality of air in Croatia, and especially in Slavonski Brod today, will release into the procedure the Law and the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, which will enable JANAF to disable oil flow where it is proven scientifically that this affects the health of our citizens. So here's the law written, we're going to refer it to the procedure today and I invite you all to support it to have air quality in Slavonski Brod at the level at which we can and want to have it. We've had enough of our citizens waiting there, we've had enough people who've been hurt in health, we've got plenty of people complaining about the quality of life, not just health, but quality. Go over there and smell that air. And to sell people stories about being on the bilaterals somewhere with Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov, they mentioned at the coffee shop that there was a problem in the Bosnian Ship. Or we're told that in 5 years of gasification, Plinacro will solve it and now, of course, by this gas crisis, we're taking the money to Plinacro so he can invest in gasification. This is also not possible to connect with each other because if we take gasification money in Plinar, by reducing its gasification fee to a Bosnian ship. So enough of our citizens waiting, our promises, our stories, our negotiations, it's time to start acting and we're going to act this way to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32455	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable colleague Željko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32456	Thank you, Vice President. So, I welcome this all that Mr. Maras has said, but what I want to highlight other than Slavonski Brod's problem, there are other micro areas in the Republic of Croatia that are exposed to non-quality air. That's where I'm going to mention the central gas station Molva, which serves the processing of underground gas that's being extracted in the Djurdjevaca Podravina area, there was once a billion and 200 cc's of gas a year, now it's 600 million cc's, but it's huge amounts, now living, sulphur and other heavy metals that are being extracted in that production cycle and they haven't been extracted. So all that can be said for Slavonski Brod to pass today at the time of available monitoring, it is, this area has passed over the past 50 years and we have an extremely devastating disease data of all kinds of cancers, far more than it averages the Republic of Croatia. And I think that we should find this legal proposal and find a model for how to punish the polluter for paying the ecological rent. So what is acceptable, the degree of pollution for development and for the general benefit of the community but also where it is not respected that or excessive emissions are created because it is not cost-effective or possible for those who carry out such an activity to introduce an eco-innovation and that it is a compensation for all people living in that area, whether it will be through various types of state support if such production is of interest to the Republic of Croatia or it will be on the burden of that economic operator creating wealth there it is on the legislators to find a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32457	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32458	Thank you very much, Mr. Lackovic. I agree with you both for environmental rent and for more money to units of local self-government in the area, but not the Croatian Government exactly works the opposite. She gives more money to MOL. We have now seen that the entire burden of the gas crisis will be taken over by HEP and Plinacro, meaning Croatian companies own all Croatian citizens and that is the solution for which either government colleagues will receive the Nobel Prize or do us all to idiots. Now you pick one of those two options. I don't think anyone will win the Nobel Prize for a solution to pass the cost on to HEP and Plinarro, to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the money will put in their pocket MOL because we allow them to have this gas from your neighborhood Mr. Lackovic for which our people not only have because of this production of certain difficulties, but that is theirs. It's money, it's the gas of all our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But this government Mr. Cikotic, who is diligently thinking in the Ministry of Energy, here we heard yesterday, came up with a way to make more money for MOL, how to sell our national wealth, our gas in Hungary, Italy, how that Hungarians have cheaper gas than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, is all industrious Mr. Cikotic and colleagues from MOST and HDZ have come up with and are now selling the story that they have protected Croatian citizens. On the contrary. They made it possible for MOL to take even more money, and Croatian citizens will not pay it directly out of their pockets but will pay their companies HEP and Plinarro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32459	Another replica, dear colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, here I thank you for your concern of the citizens of Slavonski Brod. I'm a resident of Slavonski Brod myself, and I feel this pollution and that smell of oil refinery. I witnessed and two parliamentary committees held in Slavonski Brod, one where you are the chairman of the board but I am a little surprised to say that until a year and a half ago you were Minister of Croatian Government and the Government of Zoran Milanović, so I don't remember what she did for it, the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod. Not one, not to mention the parliamentary board with the thematic session was held and the government and the past government of Mr. Oreshkovic, and this government has taken significant steps. The International Agreement with the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Environment was signed where a legislative framework was created so that the issue could be discussed until possible disputes so that some sanctions can be taken. The health ministry has concluded a monitoring contract with patients with respiratory problems, so it's done a lot. And now it seems at all levels of state authority, so both in the ministry and in the Parliament and in the European Parliament. And the president got involved in that problem. I mean, you don't need to confirm that it's empty stories. So it's done at all levels. This is a difficult problem, a major problem that will not be resolved either by Slavonski Brod or by Republika Srpska and simply must be raised to a higher level, one bilateral level and the Federation of Russia and all of Croatia, which the president spoke of and took certain steps. I don't think we should ignore that, but we should all work together in that direction, and I think we're on our way to solving this problem. He is an international problem and he requires a bilateral solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32461	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32462	Thank you very much. I don't deserve anyone's efforts and I'm pushing for all of us to get together and solve this problem. The only thing that bothers me is that someone serious might think that after a coffee, after five minutes of talks, they'll solve the problem with the minister of foreign affairs of Russia and run to Slavonski Brod tomorrow and say it's all settled. And what if it wasn't solved? I'm not talking about coffee. I'm talking about documents. Mr. Cosic, look at the documents. Your deadlines are right here. It says gasification from a meeting that took place two months ago in Slavonski Brod from that Interstate Commission, gasification by 2020. What are we talking about? Is that what our citizens in Slavonski Brod know? This government offers a 2020 solution. Until we talk about it, we won't do anything or meet Lavrev in Munich. So what's in it for us? What do the citizens get out of it? And what, by the way, does it have to do with what was not the board of the thematics in the term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic? Otherwise, don't call the president of your club because he was the chairman of the Environmental and Nature Protection Committee. So, Mr. Bacic, you've called Mr. Bacic that he hasn't called the Thematic Committee in four years, and he called, I'll tell you he called. I'll protect him from you. So from your attack I will protect Mr. Bačić, he has called and is very informed of the problems that are going on there. And if you're so eager to do something together. Support the law, it's written here, it's going into procedure. We will wait until the agenda to see how many HDZ and MOST people are fully aware of the problem and whether you will give support when voting on the bill. That would be an indication that you really want to solve the problem we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32463	Thank you, Comrade Maras. And we move on to the next debate of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives, distinguished colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32464	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representative of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, here again raises this transparency for the clean air of Slavonski Brod because citizens of Slavonski Brod have the right to breathe clean air. And this law that is before us today goes in this direction that, given that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of a series of conventions and through the implementation of the regulations of the European Commission, the European Council, we are creating a legislative framework on air protection. Of course, the promoter thinks and remains at his view that the law appoints a state institution to carry out measurements in the state air quality monitoring network as originally defined in the 2014 Air Protection Act amendments and additions. This means that only that legal person, that institution can do these jobs and no other. The opinion of the profession of the Croatian Association for Air Protection and the view of the association that it is not good for that state institution to manage the network and carry out the measurement. The promoter of these changes has also given an explanation in a public debate that is not respected, and the result is that most of the measurement stations in the Republic still lack quality measurement and we do not have accurate indicators. That's what the waist says and that's not good. And then when we start initiatives to change the air quality situation in the Republic of Croatia and when we point to some pollutants, then we have to have an argument. And it is right to ask the question of where Mr Miroslav Dodig draws the data that says there is no problem in the work of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship that pollutes the environment in the neighbouring Slavonski Brod and that President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic presents the false and incorrect information of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in February in Munich. The strategy is to consider that this state body cannot and cannot run the network and lead the measurements because one single solution has been issued by the reference laboratory and this becomes available for Merna on Plitvice Lakes and is not applicable to any other. I must also point out that there is a similar problem with air quality both in Sisak and in Rijeka, and also here in Zagreb because of traffic congestion and because of the still large part of the lodge in the household that goes on solid fuel and certainly needs to be fully looked at, but it is currently the largest in the town of Slavonski Brod. In the course of this year, over 40 particles PM 2.5 and PM 10 were recorded on two measurement stations, and on the sulfur and other particles, I do not speak, as well as on benzene. And how serious the situation is, there's probably someone diagnosed with cancer at Slavonski Brod Hospital today. The fact that there is an increased number of people suffering from cancer is that there are a large number of respiratory problems in people with respiratory problems. And in the end, for eight years, we're still groping in place, we're passing a law of course we welcome because we need to implement EU directives, we need to create a quality legal framework for monitoring air quality. But we also have to do an operational thing, we from the level of Brosko-Posavina County started together with the town of Brod and your ministry and the fund of two projects. One is a project to track down the citizens. Question of what happened to this project, did I not notice in the state budget any means of continuing to run this project? Because only in 3 and 5 or 7 years of monitoring the improvement of target groups can we prove that these particles, these pollutants have caused an increased rate of improvement of citizens of Slavonski Brod and wider surroundings and thus create a criminal basis for the prosecution of those who did so. So here are the questions of our fellow citizens, what is with this project, and the holder of this project was the County Institute of Public Health, along with the fund, city and the Ministry of Health. Also the question of what about the project of monitoring and informing citizens about the quality of air in Slavonski Brod, whether it continues or not, because there seems to be a need for it as well. And it's mentioned here and the action plan that follows and this law is required for everyone to pass. The town of Slavonski Brod brought it in even though it lasted more than two years. One of the reasons why it wasn't brought was the question of what happened to the data from the Bosnian ship from the refinery because these are the main indicators on which an action plan could be worked in the first place. And it is not enough to implement only measures on our side of the border in the town of Slavonski Brod, but it is necessary to act fully. We were heading towards a polluter cadaster both in the town of Slavonski Brod and across the border in BiH. That obligation was made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to coordinate with the state bodies of the neighbouring Republic of BiH, unfortunately, they did not agree to that. Why didn't they say yes? Well, just so Dodig can make this statement that they're not polluting because we don't have an indicator. And that's where our foreign ministry, your ministry, the whole government has to do everything possible to get to that communication and finally start solving this problem. The President of the Republic launched an initiative and it is a partial solution, and I said so at a meeting Saturday with the president in Slavonski Brod because it is not only the resolution of the energy for the refinery. It will remove some 70 to 80% of the problem, but will remain the problem of uninstalled filters at the facility, although the owner has promised to modernise the refinery. But we also know that if he gets cheaper energy, he'll increase production, so he'll work it out for each other. It is not ultimately a solution to closure, although it would be a nice gesture on the part of the Republic of Croatia towards the citizens of Slavonski Brod to close the oil supply via JANAF in the Bosnian Ship Refinery, but it is certain that they have other routes of supply of raw oil. So you need one diplomatic quick action and an emergency solution. I asked Minister Kuščević yesterday whether through the amendments to the law on spatial planning to create, how to create assumptions that changes to the spatial plan of the Brod-Position of the County, the town of Slavonski Brod and the municipality of Sininj where there are certain directions for the supply of energy towards the refinery are speeding up this process, not until 2020, but to resolve it in 6 months or a year as objectively as possible, if we all take work on it? And how serious this situation is best known to the citizens of Slavonski Brod. A task force for monitoring the air quality of Slavonski Brod and the neighbouring country's ship has been set up to launch something. This group of information I've got hasn't met this year yet, so I'm initiating here from this pay phone to urgently meet and try to start further activities to prevent air pollution in Slavonski Brod. And in order to sensitize the ministry and the fund, I suggest that, by modelling the chairman of the administration responsible for this area, they move their headquarters to the town of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much and the citizens of the city of Brod have the right to clear air.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32465	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs. Here you go. You're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32466	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Vlaovic, you have raised a transparency for cleaner air in Slavonski Brod and I do not think it is a dispute about this, but it is not about not caring about anyone at Brod or how it could have been heard here earlier than you said when you raised that transparency that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of international conventions and that it has quite a regulated legislation. But the real question is, is the Russian owner of the refinery the signatories of the convention and is the country in which the refinery has a regulated legislation? I think that's the real question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32467	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleagues are right, it is another country, it is a non-EU country, but it is also a country that has shown an interest in joining the EU and there is an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to intervene towards the neighbouring country and also through state bodies to the owner of a refinery in the Bosnian Ship. Of course, the problem is that it is Republika Srpska and it is owned by a Russian company, it owns the European state, most of this manufacturer, i.e. the polluter, but Bosnia and Herzegovina has also listed... and there is an opportunity for the Republic of Serbia and the owner to press the government of Republika Srpska for urgent resolution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am somewhat encouraged by the initiative that the president has launched to address both the opinions and the Russian ambassador himself, but this morning, I am disappointed by all of us who have compassion for the citizens and I believe that you have compassion for the citizens of Slavonski Brod. It is Mr. Dodig's opinion that it makes no sense, that they are not contaminants, first of all, and second of all, that they would not go for gasification from the Republic of Croatia, but the southern flow from Serbia through Zvornik. Well, here's the opportunity for our diplomacy to make this, attitude of Republika Srpska and Mr. Dodig change and finally accept our initiative to protect the citizens of Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32469	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32470	Dear fellow, here I was listening carefully to your debate and in the memory of Dodig,... Republika Srpska, a refinery in the Bosnian Ship, and just before what I heard from the former minister who had the opportunity to do what he stands for now, so no, why should we even think about the refinery? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm aware of the railroad line to the Bosnian ship is gone. As far as I know, the only delivery route now is the pipeline. So Croatia has both skirt and scissors and carrots and batin and has its own refinery that should be managed by someone else's majority management at the moment. But that we'll find a model to manage us. So it's very easy to solve that problem. And this law and the previous law, they're all well written. The example from my Croatian Primor, from my copper, prescribes making, or to prove that someone is polluting something you need to measure floating particles for 3 years. And instead of the state institutions taking action, to close something if it's proven to be polluting, they're still asking each other, so they're hiring another house that does another strategy, so it determines if the particles are off the road, they're particles from that contaminant. And it never ends. And yesterday I said it and now I repeat, life is happening and happening right now. At this point, a child in Slavonski Brod is out playing in the park and breathing that air. And what we're talking about can take years and for years Dodig can laugh at us and the key is in our hands. Well, Russia closed the pipeline to the EU, so the whole mess got in the way. I think that at this point Croatia is as a member of the EU, as a country that has its foundation and all its institutions strong enough and ready enough to take a step in due course that will force some kind of Dodig to drill into some kind of chest that they can do whatever they want, I can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32471	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32472	My colleague and I and you agree that when it comes to national interests then there is no leverage and that we have to do everything to protect national interests, and INA is also a national interest and it should not have happened hostilely taking INA over from MOL by what conditions we know and agree that INA should be returned to the RH frameworks in ownership not only because of the refinery in Sisak, and we know how many jobs there are and how important this is not only because of the Refinery in Rijeka which also needs further modernisation and that it will survive on this market but also because of the citizens of Slavonski Brod, a refinery in the Bosnian Ship, which we cannot ignore because there are about 1000 people working there. And our goal is, I trust you, too, that the population there has something to live on. However, we all agree that to have the right to life we must not do any other harm. And the key is in our hands, you can and should close the pipeline and thus exert pressure. However, there are other routes of supplying crude oil because Sava is watery, they have a port, they have rail traffic through from Serbia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it can only be one of the pressures on them. And I believe that if such a decision is asked for the consent of the Croatian Parliament myself and you will vote for it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32473	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32474	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You have now said one very important fact, which is that in Croatia the rate of cancer is constantly growing. We are at this point the sixth countries in the world by mortality and then the question is really what are we doing. Here you are now saying, it is necessary to carry out measurements that may take years. But tell me if it's not healthy enough, so let's say that in the County, the disease rate is far less than in Slavonski Brod, it's on the same river, in the same climate area, the same food and we see that the number of illnesses, so it's far less. We here, like in yesterday's hearing on expropriation, see that unfortunately in Croatia today profit is above all else and that if someone can make a profit at the expense of human lives, it will be put first. It is, of course, very sad because we would expect that the state will primarily protect the lives of our citizens. I personally wouldn't give up your life if someone offered a billion kuna. I don't think a single material thing is worth a single human soul, and here we see, we've seen some discussions on the Committees on Agriculture, on the Health Committees to know the causes of our citizens' problems, health problems. But there's always that, so that's some higher goal, and the higher goal is at this point profit. And so long as we put profits above human lives, so if you want and above all life and nature until then this situation in which we are, unfortunately, just gets harder and we're not actually going to get to the right solution. For this reason, I call on the government to take concrete and decisive measures to stop this situation, and as we have heard they exist and are within reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32475	Thank you. The distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32476	Thank you, pal Bunjac. There have been measurements for more than five years, six in Slavonski Brod on two measurement stations and daily it is possible to see it on the internet, it is publicly published and visible overruns of both H2S and floating particles PM2 and... and these are our arguments where we can tell that it's too much air pollution in the town of Slavonski Brod coming from the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Refinery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the basis for this is the study that we have done with the Croatian hydrometeorological institute, a layman's rose wind. For, unfortunately, such is the rose of the wind that all this polluted air brings over the city of Slavon ship. And especially when there's a lot of pressure up behind is the Deal that puts it back on Slavonski Brod. And there are indications that these particles are mostly from the Bosnian Ship Refinery. To be more absurd and they've created a measurement station in the refinery itself, but their data is not comparable, because we don't have the same parameters and we haven't networked it. And that's one of the tasks that this interstate commission needed, the task force solves that we have identically networked moderated indicators and instruments to show data that can be compared. But then it would be the basis for us and the citizens of the ship for the lawsuit because surely through this study that we are doing monitoring the improvement of citizens in particular these target groups will be able to prove very quickly that this is precisely the cause of the increased pain in the town of Slavonski Brod. And the very interest of the lives of Croatian citizens must be ahead of profits, and here I call on everyone to get involved and to help citizens of Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32477	Thank you. Before the next replica, I must, as a doctor, correct my colleague, Bunjac. According to data, Croatia is by mortality of some six, and some fourth in Europe is not in the world. It would be bad if it were worse in the world than this. And this is bad. But the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubice Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32478	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaović and you yourself were a participant of various stands, round tables in the fight for clean air in Slavonski Brod. So we're all worried about yesterday's president's so-called president. Republika Srpska, before going on a trip to Moscow, the citizens of Slavonski Brod invented this pollution. Republika Srpska has been working on the Republic of Croatia's ecological aggression for 8 years. So, that aggression they had in the war, now they're environmentalizing on our citizens. We know this is an interstate problem, that the citizens of the Bosnian ship should work. But also the citizens of Slavonski Brod and our children should live. Indicators say the number of contaminants has been exceeded, so in the first two months for the whole year. The indicator, of course, is from that health base, shows how high the number of carcinogenic diseases has been in children, of course, those adults in Slavonski Brod. No profit can be more important to us than the life of citizens of Slavonski Brod, of course, the surrounding area, as well as to all Croatian citizens. But here I will return to the amendments and additions of this law so there is room in Article 48 where we can certainly use the possibility to have a better possibility of reacting to such environmental incidents happening, especially in the area of the town of Slavonski Brod, which is in Croatia, we see for ourselves, the most polluted city for many years. So please find space, Article 48(4) and (5) for one such improvement for a better legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32479	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32480	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Members, I agree with you that we have made a certain amount of noise through a series of public appearances, through a series of round tables and conferences, and we have rightly raised noise because these very indicators that come from measurement stations speak in the direction that in Slavonski Brod there is air of other quality, that it is polluted, that we have the excesses of all these parameters that I have already mentioned and that it is absurd that the president of Republika Srpska Mr. Dodig, in fact there is no problem and that the refinery is not a contaminant. I think he must react to the Office of the President and the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, deny Mr. Dodig exactly on the basis of this data we have from the measuring stations and ask for his apology. And especially since we have the opportunity that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has shown interest in solving this problem. I think that with one letter to him, we could have trilaterally solved this problem that Mr. Dodig except, of course, he advocates the work of the refinery and those thousands of jobs that are there, which is his right. But neither can the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the wider surroundings take the right to clean air and quality life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32481	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32482	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vlaović. So I don't think you should bother, and not all of us with what President Dodig is saying there and when he's going to Russia. I think he says the same thing that the Croatian institutions said, all the institutions of the measured station in the Republic of Croatia when it came to our territory, so when it was Djurdjevaca Podravina and Gas Station Molva. There's now a ton of heavy metals and sulfur in your new technologies, and I don't know what else, and it's all been blown up before. And you know what they said then? Well, it's not connected at all to this increased rate of disease, so the air is clean. So he only does what the Croatian institutions did. And I don't believe, among other things, that either diplomacy or the president or any body can solve this problem. He can fix it to get someone to the table and trade at that table. And then again Bruno Busic told you back in '75, what will happen when we are our masters then we will trade against ourselves. So I wouldn't be surprised that when we trade these pollution units under this law right now we will be doing it solely to our own harm or to the harm of our citizens and the areas affected by these very situations. So in my opinion, the only solution behind politics is trade's first word. Someone needs to sit down with someone at the table and solve this problem or otherwise cut that pipeline as we would very much like to close all these wells in the Podravina because in each well you have gas flares from which you are released directly into the air of burning gas. No one's controlling you, they're from a depth of six thousand feet enriched alive, and that's not the problem. Here because Serbia is the problem I think is the problem with system failure, and we are nothing better than Serbs in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32483	The answer of the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32484	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with you that big companies and big systems go after profits first and that what they don't care about is that the public knows they're hiding. But I can no longer hide here because there are relevant measurement indicators here, and I think that the state bodies that have failed to do their job, and with the right of citizens of Slavonski Brod, they say that neither the government has done anything for them, both now and now, except that we have repeatedly met and talked. And I agree with you that we should stop and sit at the table and talk, that's what I said. Here is now the opportunity to include Russia, and thus we will certainly have a stronger argument and a stronger lever to solve this problem if Russia itself and the foreign minister are involved. However, we must not stand there now. We should continue to be active in this negotiation process, and of course if there is no reaction in this direction to finally get rid of something, then we are left with nothing but civil disobedience that the citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod have shown that they are capable of organising. And I believe that in the next period if nothing changes and a larger number does so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32485	Thank you. Now we will move on to the next club of representatives, and that is the HDZ on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32486	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Air Protection Act in the first reading. The law, as already said here, first came into force on 24 November 2011, and last amended in 2014. Protection and improvement of air quality and ozone layer mitigation of climate change and adaptation to climate change for sustainable development is primarily based on the principles of environmental protection by a certain Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the requirements of international law and legal property of the EU. Protection under the law is provided by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as by the representative and executive bodies of the units of local (regional) and regional self-government within the law of a specific jurisdiction. The Republic of Croatia has so far coordinated legal frameworks for environmental management, air and ozone protection and climate change mitigation with the EU acquis. In addition, it is a signator of a number of international contracts and provisions implemented in its legislative framework and which are required to implement and report to international bodies and to all organisations. International contracts governing environmental protection and air quality monitoring, which have been confirmed by the Republic of Croatia and thereby included them in its legal system,... and exchange of air quality data with a view to monitoring cross-border remote transmission of pollution as well as an assessment of its impact on other parts of the environment, vegetation, soil and water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the period since the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection in April 2014, the European Union has adopted new regulations in the field of air protection, climate protection and ozone layer, i.e. 5 Directives on air quality management and three implementing regulations of the Climate Protection Commission and it is necessary to supplement the existing law with the obligations arising from the new EU regulation. Let's go back a little bit to the bill itself. The proposed amendments and additions to the law further eliminates the perceived ambiguities and inaccuracies in the implementation of the existing law, with a view to more effective and transparent application of the legislative framework in all three areas covered by this law. In the field of air protection, this bill continues to assess air quality, modelling for the purpose of assessing the reporting shall be provided by the Ministry and carried out by the State Hydrometeorological Institute, i.e. as an expert institution, the State Hydrometeorological Institute for the implementation of the air quality assessment for the purposes of the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of reporting to the European Commission. These amendments to the laws also create a legal framework to ensure, in addition to the national budget and through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the financial resources for the operation of the state network, air quality monitoring, as well as the implementation of the pollution monitoring programme in the national network. This law also makes it clear and more detailed that the obligations of local self-government units relating to the content and deadlines of the development of action plans and the delivery of them to the same competent authorities. The prescribed operations of the reference laboratory as well as the conditions to be met for a period of time shall be supplemented, for authorisation under the provisions of Directive 2015/1480 laying down rules for reference methods,... data and location of sampling points for air quality assessment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the protection of the ozone layer, it should be pointed out that it is in the process of adopting the draft law implementing the EU Regulation. 517/2014. on fluorinated greenhouse gases, establishing a legal framework for its implementation, by deleting in this law provisions concerning Regulation (EC) No 842 of 2006 on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases which have been abolished by the adoption of a new Regulation. In the area of climate protection, there are now clearer and more detailed reports to be drawn up under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and EU Regulations. It is also more detailed how to draw up a plan for the use of funds obtained from the sale of emission units through auctions, the period for which the plan is adopted, the purpose of funds by sectors, and the production of reports on the use of funds obtained from the sale of emission units through auctions. The minister is in charge of harmonising the compensation for uncovered greenhouse gas emissions, for plant operators and aircraft operators with the European Consumer Price Index. And what is not irrelevant and this is already the secretary of state mentioned that these amendments to the law are also abolished by one parafiscal imposition, so compensation is lifted to the agency as a national administrator for opening and keeping accounts in the Union registry. It should also be said that this law prescribes the adoption of a series of programming, planning and reporting documents at all levels, allowing for its full application and impact on environmental protection and air protection, the ultimate protection of life, and the health of all of us. This is an opportunity to remind ourselves that climate change is the dominant global problem of the environment in the 21st century, the effects of climate change are becoming increasingly visible and are manifested by a series of phenomena, changes in temperature, quantities of rainfall, changes in water resources, rising sea levels, frequencies of extreme meteorological opportunities, changes in the ecological system and biodiversity, agriculture, forestry and health problems, which are ultimately the result of major economic damages. Science predicts that these changes will be increasingly pronounced, the Republic of Croatia can be seen as extremely sensitive to climate change due to its geographical location, environmental and environmental specificities in economic and economic orientations. In this context, further efforts must be made to reduce pressures and mitigate climate change, primarily by reducing the emissions of polluting substances into the air. Since addressing the problem of air pollution in the Republic of Croatia depends largely on reducing the emissions of pollutants in other countries, especially neighbouring countries, the Republic of Croatia is interested in successful implementation of obligations under international contracts and cooperation with other countries. This should also welcome efforts to address the known problems of air pollution in Slavonski Brod. It is the problem that best speaks about the importance of this topic and the need to approach it with extreme responsibility and utmost attention. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a law on air protection amendments and additions to the Law on Air Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32487	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates and the first one will speak to the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I was a little confused by Bull because he was listed upstairs, so I thought he was before me. But he obviously gave up. Here at the end of all these debates and bill proposals what I can say is that absolutely both as board president and as a representative and as a citizen of this country I will fight for the quality of air, for environmental protection and for everything we must do to ensure that our citizens have as much security as possible, so that our citizens can live in a securely preserved environment, that there is no impact on their health and quality of life. But what I can say is that I am not satisfied that, regardless of the positive legislative changes we adopt here in the Croatian Parliament, and I have already said in a previous debate that in the last two years, the European Commission has adopted 5 directives and 3 regulations which speak enough of how much the European Commission and the European Union have given to the importance of protecting the environment. And de facto, the EU has become a leader in the world and imposes certain standards even on the United States, especially on large industrial forces such as China. And what we want is for it to be that way in Croatia. I am sorry that this is not the case in Croatia, that in Croatia we have a large part of our citizens who are threatened and who are periodically mentioned and remembered by someone, but there is no one to offer concrete solutions, nor are there any concrete solutions. What is offered, and it is enough to read just some notes from the meetings I would say to these commissions between Croatia and BiH. These are the stories of a sorceress on earth or in heaven, or in heaven, or on earth. So there's nothing the citizens could get caught up in. There are gasifications that will happen for the next five years if Plinacro has money after this gas crisis, there are certain pressures that Mr. Cikotic, who works hard and hard at the Ministry of Energy, has heard this very sweating these days, to figure out how to bear the cost of gas collection. It was indeed a very demanding thought process to transfer the cost to HEP. He says he is not satisfied with how the refinery is modernised in the Bosnian Ship. You have the President of the Republic who meets Mr. Lavrov in Munich and says we could do something there. He says that it is probably not even Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro or this part of Europe that I am aware of. So it's one of these casual conversations, and nothing concrete is agreed except that something will be done sometime in the future, and our citizens don't know when or where, or by any means, or who's responsible. And yesterday, Milorad Dodig called and said that the Croats are not telling the truth, that there is no pollution, that Croatian officials are telling false information. And you really believe that they're going to modernize something on their own. Republika Srpska's president said yesterday that it had nothing to do with anything and that nothing would be modernised. And how then our citizens in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County can benefit at all from these laws, from this law and from anything the Croatian Government suggests when there are no concrete moves. And I am sure that all those who look at us today in Slavonski Brod want concrete measures from the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. And that is why I will say once again that we have prepared in the Club of Representatives of the SDP a bill on the transport of petroleum products that makes it impossible for our infrastructure, our infrastructure, to supply oil to our public enterprises to those facilities that are proven to have no ecological standards that are normal in the EU and which, consequently, endanger the health of our fellow citizens. So you can disable oil access unless there are these preconditions that will ensure the protection of the health of Croatian citizens and air quality in the Republic of Croatia. And then when it's done like that, then it'll be in the interest of investors in the Bosnian ship to modernise as soon as possible. There won't be a story five years of gasification three years of steam boilers or on a box of oil or on a mule, on anything, irrelevant. So, they won't, they won't replace those things, they'll be as soon as possible because they'll be in the interest of their production not being compromised and their profits not being compromised. Unless people from Republika Srpska are already thinking about the health of citizens in both Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia because they gave a new ecological license for the work of the facility in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia for five years. So by 2021, people can do what they want to do by their standards. If they don't care then the Republic of Croatia must finally say enough and pass certain laws that will allow us to protect our citizens in Slavonski Brod. And that would be the right move and the right indicator that representatives in the Croatian Parliament are interested in the health of our fellow citizens and not to remember from month to month, or that when we happen to meet in some bilateral NATO event, then we present it as a failure, we run to Slavonski Brod and give false hope to people. It's a false hope. It's a real hope for people to actually do something. What the government has done in the last few months is false hope, especially when we're talking about gasification that won't happen if we take Plinarro's funds. means the gas crisis and not by collecting gas in the Republic of Croatia, all cargo has been transferred to Plinacro and HEP. And how is Plinacro going to invest in gasification to the Bosnian ship so that our Croatian air is clean when there is no money? Very simple questions, which unfortunately no one gives an answer, although they work hard and work hard at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, so hard that I expect to receive an economic science award from the Nobel as long and professionally designed this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32489	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first person to represent the Blessed Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32490	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Maras in your exposure to a rather sarcastic and not very observant bill, but I will take the opportunity to mention another pollution, air pollution and a very dangerous asbestos pollution that happens in a salt-Castelan-Split swimming pool. This pollution of course does not work anymore, but I will remind you of something, in 2008, 2009 and even in 2010 it began to resuscitate from asbestos in that pool where unfortunately today people of very severe asbestos disease are still dying, and unfortunately blue asbestos particles are still floating with that pool. The three years I mentioned were initiated by the EU regulation and forced then by the government to implement a resolution then already following a study done by four focal points. Three focal points are removed, one and the most dangerous focal point remains. And when you say here I'm sorry that the citizens are suffering from it, and that nothing is done, I agree in that part with you. And I'm going to tell you in 2011, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's decision to suspend the recovery of the fourth focal point of the so-called focal point. The pieces in our Vranjica in Solin. And today, I am also afraid of foams due to asbestos in the Republic of Croatia, not fully rehabilitated from asbestos in the area. It's very tragic and very sad. That we are both the fourth focal point and the opposite of the EU regulation and the opposite of all usus, and above all, the fundamental protection of clean air in that pool from such a dangerous asbestos that is still unfortunately floating in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32491	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32492	Thank you very much. Mr. Boban, since you're from Solin if you're from this information, I honestly don't have that information right now, but if all this is true what you said, then you were four years old. So you know what I'd do if it was in my town? Well, he'd tie himself in chains in front of the hotspot. How come we haven't heard from you in four years? Well, this surprises me. It's amazing to me that the mayor of Solin, the great city of Dalmatia, who was so threatened and threatened by your words and by the mayor. Here I am truly surprised and consterned. Well, that's your biggest assignment. Come before the government and now if you're sitting here and go to Plenkovic's to help you do it. So what are you doing here? You're in power now, you do everything you can to protect your fellow citizens, so that's your job. I'm sorry it's happening out there, but I'm surprised by your reactions. They don't have people down there any of your findings. You have to do something to protect these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32493	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representatives of Martha Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32494	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I can fully agree with your allegations that in a year and a half there is no movement in Slavonski Brod and that the citizens of Slavonski Brod have many promises regarding their problem of polluted air. You also well noticed, the arrival of the President of the Republic of Croatia to visit Slavonski Brod was on a journey, so it was one meeting with form but without content. She came to inform the citizens of Slavonski Brod that she had spoken to the foreign minister, but remains unknown whether anyone knows anything about this content and what further concrete measures will be taken. So we do not know or the competent ministers did not show about this meeting which concrete measures will then be taken and whether any contacts at this higher level have been reached now or whether they were common, as you say by the time the talks between the president of the Republic of Croatia and the foreign minister were reached. So in Slavonski Brod, citizens of course are not satisfied, they see no solution to that problem and in no case can they be satisfied with the work of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32495	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32496	Thank you very much. My colleagues Luc-Polanc would also like to know what was agreed on because there is plenty of information that is obvious without any concrete conclusions on Slavonski Brod and Rafineria in the Bosnian Ship so that citizens can even believe that something is happening. And I suggest to you, here's what we can do together, we're going to ask that we be delivered an official note from that meeting by the Foreign Ministry to see exactly what Foreign Minister Lavrov has promised to our president that she has gone to Slavonski Brod in such a hurry in two, three days to tell them that she has resolved the problem, that we really see what the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation has committed when it was so inspiring for our president to give hope to 80, 100 thousand of our fellow citizens in Brodo-Posavina County and Slavonski Brod. If there is indeed a foreign minister there that modernisation will be by the end of 2017, early 2018, then the visit by the president is justified. But I assure you that nothing has been agreed, that this authority is the subject mentioned that I do not know if the Russian Federation foreign minister has had any serious experience at all. And what it says in the right documents, and I'm going to present it here to the citizens of Slavonski Brod, so the planned deadline for modernization is for boilers, so for boilers, boiler room by the end of 2017, deputy flame and device 2018/2019. and gasification 2020. So this by 2019 will allow for the spending of 8,000 tonnes less per year in the Bosnian Ship but only in 2019 and this is still a plan that has no guarantee that it will happen. So citizens don't have time to wait another five years for someone to have mercy, we need to act now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32497	Thank you. The next debate is that of distinguished Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32498	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Viewing this bill objectively is certainly a step forward because it really solves some problems, of course not all. The most we've heard here is about one of the three areas that are governed by this law, which is an area of air protection, which is, of course, justified because it's the area that's most prominent. There are two things that this law actually, which I will rely on most because I think it's very important, and that's how the state's air quality monitoring network is financed, because so far it's not adequately solved, so we've had a lot of problems since the measurement stations don't have standardized parameters, so at one measuring station you have, you measure one parameter, on the other, and that's even in the same city different. And now we have this law, another thing that needs to be resolved to ensure the conditions for monitoring the quality of air in that state network and we know that in 2014 this so-called. A regulation to determine measurement sites, to monitor the concentrations of certain pollutants in the air, and then it was actually adopted, and we can say, the state air quality monitoring network. And that state network, what does it include? So it includes data on concentrations of polluting substances in the air, of which are mostly sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, floating particles, lead, gasoline, etc. And now what's this about? It's about that while, for example, sulfur dioxide is a problem one place, one measurement station, the nitrogen dioxide is a problematic other measurement station, and they're very different actually, very different statistical indicators. And now that we're talking, for example, we've mentioned the most legitimate Slavonic ship here. And this is actually about sulfur dioxide most but also some substances like lead, gasoline, etc. And when we talk about Zagreb and here's a concrete one-way station that cornered Miramarska and Vukovar. You get information that is relevant that at this measuring station Zagreb does not belong to the first air quality category when we talk about the category of nitrogen dioxide. And that's a fact. While Osijek and Rijeka, for example, have the first air quality by statistical data. But if we look at the already measured stations Zagreb 2 and Zagreb 3 is then for this category of nitrogen dioxide which, the parameter, which is the most connected to traffic, is therefore with the pollution from traffic a completely different image and there is already the first quality of air. So the conclusion is that each measuring area has its own problematic parameters of those of course being measured. And now it's really casual and inaccurate to say that general air isn't good because we see that it isn't. I'll talk about Zagreb the most because I was surprised with some data. For example, long-term air quality monitoring in the Zagreb area points to two facts. Two parameters are very critical and are even sometimes deviating from European averages. It's already mentioned nitrogen dioxide and so on. Floating particles. At the measured station Zagreb 1, therefore we have information published on the Agency's pages that the average annual concentration for the limit value for this nitrogen dioxide has been exceeded. And so at that measuring station, the measurement station 1, even 290 times over one year. A permitted threshold is exceeded which is the lower threshold and even 40 times the permitted upper threshold has been exceeded. And now, for comparison in Kutina, that same parameter is exceeded only 91 times, I say only 91 times compared to 290 times in Zagreb, while in Osijek it is over 49 times and the upper threshold is in Osijek, for example, exceeded only 2 times, which is really only compared to Zagreb. I've already said that this is the intersection of Miramarska and Vukovar and a very bad situation as far as these parameters are concerned, and I'm going to say later that they're affecting health and that's medically proven. A very bad situation, at the crossing of the Adriatic Bridge-Selska. And you won't believe it, but a day at that crossover, according to information that hasn't been since this year, it's past 85,000 vehicles. So over 60 thousand vehicles per day pass those crossings of Savska-Ulica Grada Vukovar, Slavonska, it is also a problematic crossing for the city of Zagreb. When we talk about the second risk parameter, it's that so-called. Floating particles. Now, we have natural causes, we have causes that are artificial. Of course here is an accent on the artificial, because natural are dust, pollen, etc. And these artificial ones are mostly caused by heat pollution, from heat to wood, to coal, from small households that use these combustion of solid and fossil fuels, and of course what's most romantic is road traffic. There is something that those citizens who live in New Zagreb will know best, especially the part that is next to the Federal Republic of Germany, along Dubrovnik Avenue, but perhaps one of the real examples is those buildings next to the loop on Slavonia Avenue. These buildings are practically in your plane. Their windows look at the road, literally their cars pass at the window level. And now these people you know isn't enough to dust once a week. Even twice a week is not enough for them because these floating particles tell those who deal with it, to connect with dust and similar particles. And what do you get? There's some weird dusty conglomerate that's practically glued to all the flat flats, especially on screens, etc. And what do measurements show in these areas? The measurements show that 24 hour concentrations of these floating particles are measured by two that are most problematic. 35 days a year actually exceed the allowed concentration in Zagreb. At one measuring station, as many as 78 days in the town of Zagreb, and on another 48 days. And interestingly, when we talk about floating particles that the thresholds of notification and excitement for these floating particles are not prescribed at all, therefore they do not exist, are not even specified in this first reading as far as I have seen, or there may be an countless number of overruns and nowhere is it required that this pollution of these floating particles must result in measures, so excitement. Official data indicate that these floating particles are inhalable and that they penetrate the lungs, and that their accumulation is possible and the lung’s ability is weakened. And in time, then, you don't have to take it so lightly. Two types of PM 10 and PM 2.5 particles are measured and it is said that with the longer exposure of these floating particles, thus causing inflammatory changes, reduced resistance to infections. They even modify the immune system to different allergens. And of course it has been proven that chronic exposure to these floating particles contributes to the risk of developing cardiovascular and primarily respiratory diseases, somewhere even lung cancer. And according to medical studies, mortality associated with pollution is 15% to 20% higher in cities with high levels of air pollution compared to cleaner cities. As far as other measurements are concerned, for lack of time, I'll only mention gasoline. Let's say Sisak is the only one that belongs in the second category, the other cities are in the first. However, again at the measured stations Zagreb one and Sisak one medium annual value for benzene even exceeds the upper threshold. While in Osijek, for example, the average annual value is lower than the lower threshold. And you can see the problem, and you know the cause. I purposely focused on Zagreb because I was surprised with that data. And now the solution is imposed in itself, so some countries are partially, some of them are working to introduce renewable energy sources and other solutions, not on coal, on wood. They have their Energy Strategy aimed at reducing the use of liquid fuels, etc. The point is, we need to work on a plan. If the causes are road traffic and industry, specifically for Zagreb, then we see that we have local goals that are, say, greening roads. This applies most to city zones and wider ring zones. It is, of course, not only an eye that is pleasant, but also a health benefit. I cross the streets of the Croatian Brethren Community every day and watch these famous fountains. And I can't believe it, but there really isn't a single tree, there's not even that green leafed bush that's proven to be also cleaning the air. So, let me just finish. If we want truly effective air protection, then we need a principle, a full principle and a combination of sustainable development and the best available techniques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32499	Thank you. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32500	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Irena, I think that everyone here who is currently in the assembly has shown and pointed to the problem that you really have here in Zagreb. And now that a man, a common observer, a citizen puts your debate and puts a debate and a demagogue, so I don't know what he's been called to do by former Mr. Maras, who's been discussing here on a flat-out basis, to the ultimate ground of the flat. And I can't understand that he is not familiar as the Minister of Spring 2012 who was protesting, even here in Zagreb before the Government Office of the Barbarinac Association, the City Administration's Biggl asbestos Association, about the violent dotting of the fourth focal point of unfortunately the sad asbestos that in our down, our valley of Solinska has indeed done great, great damage to the citizens. Incomprehensible that indeed the person was not aware of the pressure that was both the city and not only the town of Solin, but the neighboring cities also worked all other associations. And now that you put such a co-debate and such ignorance against your here thorough and studio exposure, then the man wonders what direction this Republic is going with its own I would say so on the issues of agendas that we have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32501	Comrade Boban, this wasn't exactly a replica of a colleague, what a colleague of Petriyevchan used to say, but good. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32502	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, in 238, an injured article. Mr. Boban was moved by the unclean conscience that he did not advocate for his fellow citizens from Solin and was not in front of the Ban Courts. You were, yes, you wouldn't have been so guilty if you were, if you'd done something for your fellow citizens. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32503	... what's being said about hurting the Rules of Procedure. That's what you two agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32504	I'm just saying what's the state of his psychological consciousness. A guilty conscience caused him to offend a fellow MP in the congregation or me for not doing something. But insubordination can't make you insult your colleague. Here I think you should have stopped him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32505	My colleague Maras, I think I should have stopped you, too, but good. Here's a response from the distinguished MPs, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32506	Dear colleague Boban. I thank you for your commendation of the debate, but here I respect every representative elected to this House and would not compromise the debate and methodology of the work, although I agree with you. And as for your work, specifically about this problem, I am personally aware that you have indeed taken on more than usual as a local leader, so you have also used those methods used by civil society, so civil disobedience, so you have used all the legitimate techniques and methods that can be used by a local leader. And I know personally that you've done everything about it, and I don't agree that you've done anything or done enough. I believe that in 2008, 2009 and 2010, the process when the asbestos factory was closed well, the first three steps, and that the key fourth step that was to be taken by Prime Minister Milanovic's government was missing and that is the problem and that is the fact. And we can agree to that or disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32507	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32508	Dear colleagues, Vice President of the Parliament. Congratulations to you too on the description of that... level of what's going on out there with the air. But I'm only interested in these other black spots from northern Croatia down to Montenegro. Yesterday we heard a report from a colleague of mine that you have 600 tons of dangerous chemical waste on the island of Krk. This is for our co-workers from the Ministry of Affairs to resuscitate those black dots. We have an example. which is pure irony Jordanian Hospital for pulmonary diseases, asbestos isolation, from Lisinski pulled asbestos for a year, etc., etc. Our colleagues here from the former system that was in the party remember those five-year plans of megalomaniac and we all saw what happened to those mastodons over there lying there because they were made in the most beautiful coves on the Adriatic, there standing like elephants. What's going to be the recovery of those black dots? That's the first question. Second question. The international... commission estimated that in the next 2035, decaponisation would cost decarbonisation in the global energy system of $20 trillion. What will Croatia do about it? On what model did Croatia create an energy independence plan? But everything we're talking about falls into the water because if one thing doesn't work out, and that's the individual's personal responsibility, because we know that Croatia is a black hole in the judiciary, we have dumps. What kind of state is that where 400 wrecks are taken out of national parks, where forests are deliberately burned, etc., and there is no answer? We've got a state without teeth, and there's no law here, and that's what I'm going to conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32509	Thank you. I don't know how you will respond to this distinguished colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, but she will try.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32510	You don't have to doubt I'll manage. Thank you, Vice President. I appreciate what you said about the individual's responsibility being extremely important, the individual's responsibility is crucial. And otherwise, I'm not for collective responsibility. So we're talking about the state, about the ministry, about the party, there's no collective responsibility. So I am an individual in a party and I am responsible for my actions, but at the same time I cannot be responsible for the actions of another individual in that party. I can disagree with that, but I'm not responsible. So there's no collective responsibility. As far as this energy strategy is concerned, so Croatia is a signator of a series of conventions, I think since 2005, that it is going first, colleague climate-headed, we have a really comprehensive legislation, we have the Air Protection Act, we have already said in 2011, now again, we have the Air Quality Monitoring Regulation, we have the National Action Plan for Renewable Energy Sources, we have the National Action Plan for Biofuels, we have I don't know a variety of laws, but it's always a problem not only here but implementation in practice. Did I not know all these action plans the city of Zagreb adopted in March 2015 an Action Plan to improve the quality of air in the city of Zagreb, and now we have heard the parameters. I personally don't know if anything has been done under this action plan, but this action plan has been made, it is in line with all existing legislation both at national and local level. I know that's what the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection was supposed to do, and I know they paid for that study, and what happened next? I really don't know. And they need to check the authorities. So it's always someone's responsibility, and now it's only a question of whether there are sanctions for irresponsibility and for an act that doesn't comply with what's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32511	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32512	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues. Amendments to the Law on Air Protection, which is today's topic of our session, have caused a lot of debate and controversy here. Almost all MPs have referred to air pollution from the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. Of course here you have also touched the town of Slavonski Brod with the City of Zagreb. Some went so far as to be psychic, they knew when the refinery in the Bosnian ship would be gassed and what the president would do. Republika Srpska talks in Moscow at a meeting. They talked about various delusions. I'll tell you that the biggest deception of Slavonski Brod's citizens experienced at a meeting which a senior official on his arrival in Slavonski Brod said would, that the refinery in Slavonski Brod was about to close. So that was one of the biggest delusions of Slavonski Brod's citizens. Of course, we all agree that the citizens of Slavonski Brod do not have time to wait, that measures must be taken urgently. But the greatest help there will, of course, be done by diplomacy. We know it's an international problem, that it can't be solved tomorrow, but the times of Slavonski Brod citizens don't have too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32513	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32514	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Maximchuk. Well, like I said before, it's an international problem, and you've seen it yourself. But the Russian owner is the key. Obviously, there were a lot of efforts from the executive authority, from local authorities to resolve it and obviously could not be solved on the inside of Croatia alone because the problem with the country in which the refinery is situated is obviously not very interested in solving the problem. Not only is she not interested but she ignores the problem and even denies the problem. That's why I find the president's initiative to engage with the Russian government to address this problem positive, and I think it's the right way, because it could have been resolved by now, obviously not. Therefore, it should be addressed because otherwise the source of pollution is primarily dealt with by these action plans and strategies. So if it's some sort of mega corporation of the American owner, then it's trying that way, if not, with the U.S. government. If I don't know the Russian owner, then the Russian government. If he can't deal with the country where that pollutant is, and obviously that's the problem here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32515	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. You have indeed given a series of information that is commendable and I think it is good to talk in this respected House about something that will be a theme for sure both in the world and in Europe, and this century it is climate change. Climate change and everything that happens regardless of Mr. Trump who claims it doesn't suddenly. The Chinese claim he does. But climate change is what we witness in real time. And cities in their development strategies and development strategies must take care of it, so I am extremely glad that you mentioned several examples in the city of Zagreb where buildings were not only there in the 60s and 70s, but also ten years ago when you took the Laniste settlement simply came too close to the roads. But what is the role of cities and what you have said and I hope that we will have another chance to hear that in our development, to take care of it not only in the spatial planning as they used to be in the city of Zagreb. So look at the green wave called the green wave because of the trees that it was to protect itself at a time when traffic was much different than it was here. Cities in the world of Zagreb's size do a few things. First, energy-related ones change energy and not only green energy but also something else, but what they do, they do to their policies to make 50% of the traffic public. But when it's public traffic that public traffic is equally not on traditions, so... It's about gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I have to say that the time is coming for more and more of those who use electricity, or battery power. And what the cities of the type of Zagreb should make sure, in public transport, that about 50% of our citizens and we ourselves use public transport. It is, of course, a series of methods, but also in public transport to use energy, i.e. not even gas anymore, but batteries, i.e. solar energy and everything else. So your data was extremely useful to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32517	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32518	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Dark Taritash. You've done well. So it's all connected. This is linked to what you do as an architect, energy restoration of houses and buildings, and this initiative is very important because less fossil fuel combustion is then released, so into the atmosphere, that is, in the environment in which we live. Road traffic is also very important and we saw that nitrogen dioxide is not only in Zagreb, but it is also very alarming. And there also needs what you said to see what alternative methods are. According to some estimates by the European Commission, up to 500,000 euros costs to move traffic from the city's narrow centre. It was done about in a city that could fit Zagreb. It's a little in some cities. Of course, it is never fully applicable to this method of compatibility, but something can be concluded. The existing fleet, as far as I know, is now driving on gas, and that's commendable. But the cycling trails are broken. They really need to work it out, secure one meaningful whole of these cycling trails, because you have to go somewhere, then stop, so it doesn't continue. What I said, so thermal protection of buildings and houses, road traffic as low as possible, broken paths etc. etc. But what's most important is to say that other than the city budget these sources of funding are also numerous. And I don't know why it hasn't been done so far, because these measures that apply to energy efficiency are relevant not only for the Environment Fund, but also for this structural cohesion fund and for this period from 2014 to 2020, but also for the Horizon, and for some, this Life Plus. So there's a possibility you just need someone to sit down and deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32519	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32520	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene, you've had a really great discussion, nice and nice listening to you. Here are some things I also wrote down and you said a fact that unfortunately many of our citizens do not know, which is that Zagreb is among the 5 most endangered cities in the Republic of Croatia after air pollution. So that's, of course, unfortunately Slavonski Brod is that leader. After that goes Zagreb, Osijek, Sisak and Kutina. Most Kutina, for example, because of industry and Sisak, and Zagreb because of traffic. And these measurement cells that you've listed are essentially the measured cells that are the most exposed traffic in the city. For example, the measurement station on the Mirogojska road does not show such oscillation because of what it is at higher altitude, or there is not so much traffic. And the problem is what the city of Zagreb unfortunately doesn't do almost anything in some Transport Strategy to relieve traffic from the city center, so that just what we heard earlier would stimulate people and invest in public transport into certain alternative sources of energy, fuel for transport and all these things that could be used and which are available from both European funds and from various different credit lines that can be obtained. Examples and facades in the city center are also not renewed. So there are many opportunities that we in the city of Zagreb do not use to make our environment and Zagreb more comfortable for life, especially when it comes to air pollution. And one more thing I'm interested in, I see you're up until now on how much activity Mr. Boban had with Solin. I wonder if you know if in the last year during HDZ he has done certain activities to solve this problem on the fourth wheel in Solin? Here he says no, but maybe you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32521	Thank you. The distinguished representative Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32522	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Thank you. I just don't know if I should worry when the opposition praises me or leave it for some discussion outside the assembly. In any case, a constructive debate. I know about this information for the city of Zagreb, and for this information for colleague Boban, here you have seen I have answered you. He nodded his head if he didn't. So obviously not, then, but before that stands everything and these are facts. As far as these measurement stations are concerned, it's important and the height is at four meters, or I don't know her at a health care facility where she's a little more. That's what matters. Especially problematic months are January and December when fog is and when it is not, it is different whether it is measured on the ground or measured at a higher height, so it should be standardised and measured stations and therefore this law goes in that direction to standardise it. It's a shift, that's what I pointed out. Of course I said he didn't solve all the problems, but the devil says he's hiding in detail. I think there's a column on that subject. And I must now give an example of concrete sulfur dioxide. In order to exceed the threshold of the permitted value of that sulphur dioxide, this value, I say, must be exceeded over three consecutive hours. Now, if it's over for two hours and 49 minutes it's not for three consecutive hours. Right? And now we come up with an absurd situation that we have, for example, an excessive value of five times at a measured station, right here in Slavonski Brod because sulfur dioxide is a problem in the boat. But be careful now, not once during three consecutive hours and the statistical data that one measurement station receives independently in which state says there has been no excess of the permitted threshold of sulphur dioxide at any of the measured stations in Slavonski Brod. So it's also important how these excesses are calculated. I think the same thing will have to be arranged in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32523	Thank you. And the last individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32524	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that in our country we have witnessed years of demagogy of empty words, I've released speeches on the issue of the solution to the air problem in Slavonski Brod. This law does not solve this problem unfortunately. And not just that. We are trying, or trying to create an illusion that the problem in our legislation is, and yet we are not going to solve any legislative legislation. It will only be resolved when BiH is forced to stop poisoning not only the citizens of the Bosnian and Slavonski Brod, but also the citizens of Zenica, i.e. Tuzle. Because what's going on in Tuzla? There's a boiler in Tuzla as well as in Sarajevo, there's a thermal power plant and there's a pollution of 1600 of these particles per metre, which is why you can't live there, too. And the government means BiH is not doing anything to solve the problem. It means neither in Tuzla nor in the Bosnian Ship or Slavonski and I don't know what to do. I don't know what to say anymore, I just see that there's no will, there's a lot of talk on both sides and nothing's working. For this reason, I will remain silent for the next 8 minutes for all victims and such policies both the Governments in BiH and ours who are indifferent to this poisoning of our fellow citizens. And this is a question not only of our country's citizens who are being poisoned because the system is not working, but also of citizens in neighbouring BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32525	Thank you very much. Thank you. Two MPs raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First is the distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32526	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I believe my colleague Pernar violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure in a way that, by its conduct, it deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, i.e. So most of his time he kept his mouth shut. In this way, he did not follow the general rules, and I believe that he was disrupting the work at this session. Why do I think so? Article 233 also states that a representative in the debate is speaking, not silent. Imagine if we were all here to answer for an argument and then to keep our mouths shut. I don't think that behavior is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32527	Thank you. We also have a respected representative, Josip Križanić, who has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I consider Article 233 injured. A representative in the debate can generally speak for a maximum of 10 minutes, so he is thought to be able to speak, not to remain silent. Because if all 141 MPs kept quiet for ten minutes, it would take 1410 minutes, or 23 and a half hours or three working days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32529	Thank you. And distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32530	Thank you very much. Vice President of the Parliament, Article 238 was violated, so the MP was given the right to speak, and he used his right to do so, he got the right to speak, and these advocates who complain about it are better to remain silent because they are smarter when they are silent. And Agent Pernar says more when he's quiet than they do when they talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32531	Comrade Bunjac, you can't insult other MPs. I give you a warning. What you just said doesn't speak in the House of Representatives. That's what you're aware of. I don't know. I guess it took you a little bit. Oh, no? On a very substantial silence from our colleague, Pernar, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32532	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar, in one part of your debate at the very beginning, you mentioned a problem which is unfortunately present in the Republic of Croatia and air pollution in Slavonski Brod, and you mentioned the neighbouring country, although it is obvious that the authorities there do not experience this exactly the way they should and therefore should help Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter the EU as soon as possible so that these standards begin to apply on their territory and that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have a better quality air and better living conditions. And on that side, I support your concern, or your desire to change that. Also here, so during your debate you walked away for 8 minutes probably in this way you wanted to point out the problem and highlight it and encourage people to think about it and thus express your concern that in principle I think this Croatian Assembly does not happen often, but it is not something that should be taken for evil. And that's why I find it strange that this has caused such a reaction from the HDZ colleagues because it is more important for them not to signal at all the problem of pollution in Slavonski Brod, but to signal in this way that you have done it. You've been silent here for eight minutes and for the people of Slavonski Brod. Why does that bother the HDZ people? I don't understand. Perhaps you can give us an answer, that it is so trivialized and debilitated and thus prevents the MP from conducting the debate in his own way and that in his own way I would say concern with his gestures and behavior. Or we'll measure each one as many between the two sentences as there's a second break...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32533	.../Intruder Reiner: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32534	...so we'll say you kept your mouth shut for 200 seconds...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32535	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras you have exceeded the puck time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32536	Well, but I kept quiet until I said a sentence, two so you could give me that 10 seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32537	The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar. All I have to do is correct you. No one has denied my colleague Pernar the right to remain silent. He could have kept his mouth shut for all 10 minutes, not been denied that right. He's drawn attention of course as always, as he wants. That was the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32538	Thank you. Mr. Maras, you've noticed this well, but HDZ agents are bothered by when I'm talking, when I'm talking, why is Pernar saying this. For example, when I asked them when they'd pay back 24 million kunas that they pulled out of the state budget through FIMI Media and spent it on themselves, it's like why you're talking to Pernar. If they had done anything to solve the problem in Slavonski Brod, i.e. the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, that is, that there is no problem, then they could tell me why you are silent. So here's to explain why I keep my mouth shut. Because I can see that there's nothing out there from the stories I've told. I could've been here like you stealing time, I could've talked to you, and I know that story isn't going to change, and I was hoping if I saw it, so he said Einstein if you repeat the same thing, you actually see that it doesn't work maybe somewhere you're wrong. I said, let's change the approach. If I can't point out the problem and call the system to solve it, then I'll keep quiet about the problem. And Mr. Maras, I hope that someone will hear this silence, that this silence will be a loud message or cry out to citizens who are being poisoned and dying of various malignancies and Slavonski Brod and Tuzla. Pregnant women who go to see Slavonski Brod when they come for a checkup ask them if you smoke. She says no, I don't smoke, so the air they breathe is actually as dangerous as the cigarettes themselves if not more dangerous and in Tuzla what kind of situation is that of a living disaster. And I don't know how in BiH Parliament someone doesn't point to that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32539	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be accepted as the final state secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32540	MPs and MPs! [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Regardless of the weight of the topic we discussed today, I must at the beginning of my final decision express my kind of satisfaction with this debate today, which I honestly did not expect in this scope, means I express my satisfaction and gratitude to all MPs and MPs who participated in the debate both the opposition and the ruling majority. I've written down a few very constructive things for myself that I've heard from all the club representatives and believe me that within the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, in the days that follow we will discuss your proposals and guidelines to improve air quality. When we talk about the problem of air pollution, we can say that this problem has come to the top, to the very top of today's environmental problems, and thus the importance of this topic is extremely large. The specific problem in which MPs and MPs today spoke to me about the issue of polluting Slavonski Brod is certainly the most cumbersome example we have in the Republic of Croatia, and I have to point out unfortunately when we talk about international environmental law, today several MPs and MPs have mentioned the ESPO Convention, the Convention on the Cross-border Impact of Contamination. Unfortunately, the ESPO Convention does not have the elements of the ban, we must be aware of this, so under the ESPO Convention we cannot prohibit or stop the implementation of a project that has a negative impact on the environment in the neighbouring country but gives us certain opportunities to participate in the process itself of assessing the environmental impact of a future project as well as in improving environmental conditions in the upgrade of an already existing facility or environmental problem project. We have problems with Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have problems especially with Republika Srpska, and this is well highlighted and highlighted in this debate. The issue of air in Slavonski Brod is not the only problem that the Republic of Croatia has in the environment with Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also have a problem with the "top horizons", a project that has a very negative impact on the Neretva valley in terms of salting the entire Neretva valley and it is about the construction of hydrobuilding facilities in neighbouring Republika Srpska and here I must stress that we are not satisfied as a government, as a restoring ministry satisfied with cooperation on the opposite side. And this will be one of the topics as well as the topic of air pollution in Slavonski Brod at a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will soon be held. Let me briefly go through your questions that you asked during this very constructive debate and I apologize in advance if I do not answer all the questions so I invite you to, with confidence, address us with your question in writing on what I undertake to give you an adequate answer. The first question was of the respected representative Sinčić why the old legal proposal defined the Environment Protection Agency as a body that monitors and combines air quality data and today, according to this proposal, is the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. So the reason is simple. The Environmental Protection Agency no longer exists. In order to reduce the number of institutions within the government or the accompanying institutions of the ministries, the Environment Protection Agency and the State Institute for Nature Protection are united, so today we have a Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and before we had an Environment Protection Agency and a State Nature Protection Agency. The esteemed representative Ambrusec spoke about the testing laboratories as well as the reference laboratories from the state network and several other parliamentary deputies and MPs referred to the topic, so I would just like to point out that in Croatia today we have more than 10 test laboratories, that we have three reference laboratories and in this legislative proposal is particularly highlighted by the State Hydrometeorological Institute because it is defined as the competent body for monitoring air quality and modelling, which is what we need as a state to fulfil our obligations to the European Commission in terms of air quality reporting. Dear Representative Maksimchuk spoke about the deadlines, the extension of the deadlines for the delivery of action plans. In fact, the overall deadline that we as a state report to the European Commission on action plans remained 2 years but changed this ratio when the unit of local self-government should deliver its action plans from 12 to 18 months for the simple reason that we have so far followed the way in which these action plans are delivered seen that, because of their capacity constraints, individual or not individual but a lot of local self-government units have a problem doing so within 12 months, so we extended that deadline to 18 months, but it is important to note that the deadline until the state has to fulfil its obligations remains two years as in the old proposal. The esteemed parliamentary representative Luc-Polanc stressed that it specifically referred to inspection surveillance, meaning whether any improvement in inspection control is foreseen in terms of air quality monitoring. We must stress here that there has been a certain improvement in the way that this amendment and the addition of the law that the provisions and procedures of our ministry, our inspection with the general or the Law on Administrative Procedure, or cooperation with the Ministry of Administration, are harmonised so that we have progress in relation to the existing legal solution. A colleague, a respected representative of Vlaović, referred to the project of monitoring the improvement, that is, to the comparison of data and to the production of cadastres. I must stress about the project, the project continues, the state has, on its part, provided an 80% co-financing of the project through the Environmental Protection Fund, but the project holder is a local self-government and can point out that there are certain problems between the county and the city which, please, and this way to transfer and try to solve the state side co-financing provided and the project implementation process continues. I also need to inform you about the construction of the catastra from both Croatian and Bosnian hercegovina that this process is also going on. As for the comparableity of data from the Croatian side and the Bosnian side in a specific case of air quality in the Bosnian Ship, I can tell you by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the data we have seen that the data are quite comparable, but you know the problem is that the maximum permitted concentrations in BiH are especially for the pipeline and therefore there are some considerations that may have made you think that the data are not comparable. And there, of course, must be pointed out when you have a higher maximum concentration, then the sensitivity of their public is much less talked about on their part about this problem, although the quality of air on the Bosnian-Herzegovina side is much worse, meaning we are worse than it is on the Croatian side. Dear Representative Boban pointed out the problem of asbestos waste, so I just wanted to say in this sense that the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection is in the phase of the adoption of sublegal acts that will define the problem of building waste management, so we expect soon important progress. Dear Madam Representative, I now apologize mainly in the end for the means mentioned which will be further secured for among other things and reduce pollution in terms of reducing the negative consequences of climate change, reduced greenhouse gas emissions. They can stress that in the framework of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion, significant resources are also foreseen so that we expect progress in this regard. It is important to point out that this is a multidisciplinary problem, not only of industry. The distinguished representative, Dark Taritash, mentioned the problem of traffic. Transport is a major contaminant, a major contaminant at European level, a major contaminant in Croatia and in this sense can announce that in a few months you will find a large document called the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and that this strategy has a very significant chapter that is currently talking about reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector that are currently participating by more than 27% compared to total emissions, so that the basis and low-carbon strategies, as well as the adaptation strategies to climate change that you will see several months later, I think that this government will clearly show itself that this government is making efforts within the possibilities to see this problem in the way that it deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32541	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32542	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A fellow secretary of state. You said something that doesn't please me here. So you said that international economic commercial contracts and agreements are beyond the health of our people. Any country that not only holds on to itself, but every country should have a priority in protecting its citizens. And I can't accept the argument if I can determine for certain that it endangers the health of our people, that because of international commercial contracts and agreements, we cannot protect our fellow citizens. That's something, here's what I'm glad to see how different SDP and HDZ attitudes are. So the HDZ in this situation claims that there is nothing that can do about it in Slavonski Brod except what we just said about modernization for the next five, six years that will probably never happen or will happen when it suits the Russians, and that will probably not be so fast, and we think that focus should be placed on the health of our citizens in Slavonski Brod. So exactly the opposite, not trade, but health, and that's what we're going to insist on. And frankly, when we saw and now we see that partners in the Bosnian Ship, or not our partners, but investors in the Bosnian Ship and the government in Republika Srpska have no intention of doing anything at all because you saw yesterday the president of Republika Srpska who says it's all an expensive invention, that there is no pollution there, that this is the invention of the Croatian side. When we saw that this is the only way we can react, this is how I propose, or what the SDP Representatives Club proposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32543	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Secretary of State, Mary Shiljeg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Maras, when I mentioned the ESPO Convention, I mentioned it for the reason that we are speaking in general about the problem we have with neighbouring countries with regard to the problem of environmental protection, it is very often mentioned by the EspO Convention and is very often mentioned by parliamentary representatives and in response to the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. I purposely mentioned it because everyone refers to it, it is one of the main international documents, one of the main international conventions that regulates environmental pollution across national borders, to say I did not want to use it as an alibi, but I wanted to present it to the Croatian public through the Croatian Parliament that it is essentially one of the limiting factors, unfortunately. And I think that the topic of air pollution in Slavonski Brod definitely exceeds all of our bickering power and opposition and definitely this problem doesn't deserve to be discussed in one of these ways. We are aware of the problems, we are aware and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines a healthy life as a constitutional category, and definitely at the beginning of the exhibition I said the measures we are implementing that is what we are doing at this point, they are really intensive communications, I guarantee you, intensive communications are at a higher level in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The problem is, again, back to problems, the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina's structure is that the environment is in the state's jurisdiction, and here we have the biggest problem with Republika Srpska, so here we are seeking intensive contacts to overcome all these problems and tomorrow I am personally in Bosnia and Herzegovina right now on one level talks to make another bypass in solving this problem. On behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, I really assure you, I want to say that at this very moment we really want everything we can do to help and enable the citizens of Slavonski Brod and other endangered cities to exercise their right to a healthy life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32545	Thank you very much. We will now stop working, take a break until three now and then continue in three now with the next point in a row and this is the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gas and repealing Regulation No 842/2006. First reading. It's 13,15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32546	The following is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 93, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 116 for, 1 abstention and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32547	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.13 HOURS]] We'll continue with the session with the dot. - Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 842/2006, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 88 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 72 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. So far, the debate has been conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I hope the reports get you on the bench. Is there any further explanation for the proposal? State Secretary Ante Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32548	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives! This law transposes the provisions of Regulation 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing the previous Regulation, establishing the competent authorities and their tasks, administrative and inspection controls and infringements. The implementing bodies are the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, each within the scope of their work cycle. The Regulation contains measures aimed at reducing the emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases by 2030 by 2/3 of today's levels of gas in the European Union, and this represents an important step towards achieving the long-term objectives of reducing greenhouse gases within the framework of the European Union's climate policy and contributing to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Regulation applies to fluorocarbons most commonly used as working substances in cooling and air conditioning devices and heat cranes, perocarbons used in the electrical industry and sulphur hexafluoride used in high voltage circuits. Fluorinated greenhouse gases are a substitute for substances that damage the ozone layer that are used in cooling devices from the 20th century. As a result of the damage to the ozone layer, there has been an occurrence of ozone holes, a drop in harmful UV radiation that affects all the living and inanimate world on earth. The Montreal protocol abolished the consumption of these substances. According to UN estimates of 29 years of implementation of the protocol, 98% of ozone-damaged substances have been reduced. Without the implementation of the Montreal Protocol, the damage to the ozone layer would be ten times larger than today, which would cause far-reaching effects on human health and the environment. The success in the gradual elimination of these substances that damage the ozone layer has spurred new efforts to reduce fluorocarbons, which is a substitute for many chemicals controlled by the Montreal Protocol but are also strong gases that contribute to global warming. Replacement of fluorinated hydrocarbons with cooling agents and climate-friendly technologies can improve energy efficiency up to 50% thereby significantly reducing energy costs for consumers and businesses. The maximum pressure in the implementation of new regulations will be the cooling sector used for working substances that are the most represented in cooling units for commercial cooling used for working substances that are the most represented in cooling units for commercial cooling and in food products stores. The Regulation provides for a transitional period until 2030 which will allow those working substances to be used only if they are renewable within the Republic of Croatia and only for less cooling devices that use up to three kilograms of work material. The ministry actively co-operates with the HOK and the HGK in order to warn all participants in the process of the changes that have taken place and which will arise through the implementation of the regulation in time. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and taking into account all of the above, we also draw attention to the need for this law to come into force at the same time as the Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act. This is important because the provisions of the Air Protection Act need to be put outside the scope of the provisions relating to the implementation of the previous Regulation on certain floral greenhouse gases, which has been put out of force by a new regulation whose provisions are now being transposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32549	I would like to thank the motionary for his explanation. I'm opening a debate. There are no committee rapporteurs or colleagues from Bosnjakovic, nor any colleagues from Maras. Then we move on to the debate. First on behalf of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32550	I would just like to say that we support every effort aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and so does this directive. However, we would just like to point out that meat nutrition contributes more to greenhouse gases than, say, driving cars. Naima, cows, so the livestock industry emits methane, and methane has a much greater greenhouse effect than carbon dioxide, and also with this development of the meat industry, you need to know that it takes ten times more surfaces to feed one man who eats meat than it does for one who doesn't eat meat. And that's why you have a deforestation of deforestation all over the world, and when this meat industry connects itself to the emissions from it and on the other hand, deforestation of forests due to livestock farming, you'll see that it's also one of the significant contributions to global warming. And we just want to say that we support every positive initiative, but we would like to have our legislator warn us in Croatia a little bit only and this problem because most people, by my guess, 95% of people don't know about this fact. It is the simplest way you can help the environment on the one hand eat less meat or not eat it at all, and on the other hand most of the meat that is consumed today is not from saying domestic farming. It's about that English... /The speaker speaks English./...it's industrial farming, these animals live in the dark, they have no rights. And after all, we're most of that meat and we're importing, frozen it's being sold, we're actually importing what's cheap to Dutch people to sell meat to us frozen than to burn it to themselves, and that's what's being served to our citizens on the table. There's just one thing I'd like to talk about, too, is a public debate, and otherwise you have a girl in the Dutch Parliament of Marianne Thime called they've got just a party for animal rights. She made a documentary film, she also has the Croatian translation "Meat the truth" but in terms of not meeting as happy but meat meat the truth, meeting the truth or the truth about meat and recommending that you look at it, have Croatian titles, translated by animal friends and their association, and this time I just want to thank them for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32551	I would like to thank my colleague Pernar for his constructive discussion and attention to an important topic. And of course we have one replica from my colleague Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, of course we all need to agree to preserve this life in this form on the globe of greenhouse gases. Of course, when you mentioned meat production. Bovine, Croatia's cow is absolutely 100% effective in this respect. We've got no cattle in us. Come with me to the car, we'll pass through Lika, Gorski Kotar when I go home to the Dalmatian Zagora, no cows. So they have already met your request in Croatia 100% effectively. No more barns, no more farms, no more farms, so we're not gonna have a problem with beef methane. Is former ministers such as Col. Jakovina gave money, not small OPGs, so now we have empty Slavonia and empty stables, so glass gases and methane there is no problem at all about Croatia. We have another problem with what from other countries we import meat that is poor quality sold in our trade chains, which causes disease among our citizens, and that may be a much, much bigger problem. And this efficiency of destroying Croatian agriculture mainly beef and dairy production will certainly not be threatened by greenhouse gas or ozone envelopes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32553	Thank you very much. Here you see fellow Bulj is not concerned about greenhouse gases given the state of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32554	Thank you. Mr. Bully, and I remember when I read an article that milked cows, so the muse cows go to the slaughterhouse because import meat is cheaper or milk. In other words, because of this exchange rate policy, there has actually been a breakdown of every industry and this dairy industry. And those cows actually paid with their heads for the wrong exchange rate policy. Unfortunately or fortunately, yes, Croatia is reducing its stock, reducing the number of slaughterhouses, reducing the number of animals used in this way. However, on one macro, so to speak, the picture does not reduce the diet of meat by citizens, which means that only this meat industry from Croatia has moved somewhere else. And the influence of greenhouse gases, it is a global nature, meaning what comes out of Croatia from both methane and from these florad gases, etc., they destroy the entire atmosphere. Which means that yes, I think we have taken a good step with the reduction and, under quotes, let's say "death industries", that is, meat production. But it would be good for citizens to reduce, as I would say, that reducing the meat diet itself means eating less meat and thus helping the environment. And in the end and in their health because people who eat meat have a much greater chance of getting cardiovascular diseases, cancers, etc. For example. Your wolves are all dying of cancer and your sheep are neither. Because wolves only eat scavengers, so meat and sheep have a vegetable diet that is much healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32555	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Gordan Maras in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to leave one 10 minutes of my time to Mr. Bulj and Mr. Pernar, who have shown a truly envious calling about the florad greenhouse gases and how they are created and how this reflects on agricultural production in Croatia, probably especially in the Dalmatian Zagora. So, but here's the chance to hear a little bit more, some of it from Mr. Bull on the subject. What I wanted to say here on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club is that we will support this proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 517/2014. and, of course, that all of those moves that the EU or the Republic of Croatia can make to protect the environment, not only our own but also globally, and that Europe, or the EU, sets certain standards, we must, and probably all of us here unanimously support a special reduction in the emissions of fluent greenhouse gases by 2030, where it is planned to be at two thirds of today's levels of gas in the EU and every such trend is something that only I would say to cheer all of us who think and who want the environment and our country, I would say the planet to maintain such and for future generations. We were headed the wrong way, but we can see certain things are being fixed. So here's the SDP counseling club will support this law and I appeal here if there's any more information from colleagues Bulj and Pernar to give us because they're really useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32557	Thank you very much. We have a replica of my colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32558	Your Honor, if you followed my line and you were a minister, you know what state of cattle production is, but I've replicated the problem that my colleague Pernar said that cattle production is causing certain problems with greenhouse gases. I just said that Croatia has no problem because of your government that you were in, that there is no beef problem. With 64 thousand dairy producers, you brought 4600 milk producers. The government where you were the minister of one of the best, I don't object to you, your colleagues, you're the best minister since the '90s until today. I was just comparing, I was just comparing, i.e. replicated by his colleagues Pernar that the problem in Croatia is that we do not have cattle, that we do not have dairy production and that we go, we eat import food that is, on the shelves of poor quality, that is the problem. And he reflected on the problem from his point of view of the problem of beef production on greenhouse gases, not me. You would like to move that ball, the man said as a representative what he has a right to and you can draw your conclusions because indeed you as the most successful minister and who has really achieved effective results in his ministry really have the right and to evaluate what I have said. I've replicated to a colleague of Ivan Pernar and it's my right as you will now answer my line but I'm really sorry we don't have beef production, i.e. dairy production and dairy as much as possible in the Republic of Croatia because both Dalmatia Zagora and Lika, so mainly Slavonia is empty and on this issue and the worst part is that we don't have more because of it and people on that territory. That's the key problem I've been looking at for Mr. Pernar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32559	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32560	Thank you very much. First, for the sake of accuracy and the future, because you often repeat the same thing quite often, but unfortunately incorrectly. So it's not from 2011 to 2015 from 64 to 4 but from 2000 to 2016 from 64 to 5. So, here's what you try to remember, I'll be here every time if you happen to forget that we're helping you with the debates because you've been saying it quite often, but it's not since 2011 but since 2000. Unfortunately, it's bad information and no one's happy with it. And you're right, it's really hard for me to even lift a replica because I feel a great awe for a party representative who's made the most brilliant model ever, for example, that the price of gas doesn't rise. So after working hard and hard for weeks of counting, you've thought about transferring everything to HEP and PLINACRO, and that's true, here I'm thinking about withdrawing and going to write a proposal for the Nobel Prize for Economics. It means how insightful and skillful the proposal you've made, which is why we've seen in the past that people have ended up in prison. When the energy was delivered in this way to Aluminium, or material not raw, pardon aluminum to Mostar, a man ended up in prison. So here on this side here we have to give you credit because until the appearance of the Most so brilliant economic proposals was not in Croatia. And I encourage you to continue to be so diligent and hard to work during this term that as many of these proposals as possible. Thank you very much, and you are the most diligent among them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32561	Thank you very much. I'd just like to get my concentration back on this very important topic of greenhouse gas and food and stock and be constructive. Next came Mira, now he needs to read, I'm kidding, Totgergeli. Here's a colleague of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32562	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So before us is the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 517/2014. First a few sentences about the regulation itself. Therefore, a regulation that actually replaces the existing EC Regulation 842/2006. It refers to the fluorinated greenhouse gases most commonly used as working substances in cooling and air conditioning devices, as well as heat cranes in fire extinguishers and fire extinguishers, in the electronic industry, and in high voltage circuits. The aim of the Regulation itself is to protect the environment by reducing the emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases and in accordance with this Regulation are to regulate the rules on emission limits, use, collection and destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases, and appropriate accompanying measures. The conditions of placing on the market of certain products and equipment containing, or whose functioning it depends on, fluorinated greenhouse gases shall be laid down. Quantities for the placing on the market of hydrocarbons are also established. It's a regulation we're talking about 517/2014. It shall apply from 1 January 2015 in all EU Member States and so on. The obligation of the States to regulate the rules on sanctions applicable in the event of infringement of this Regulation and to take all necessary measures to ensure their implementation and to inform the Commission of those provisions by 1 January 2017 at the latest and without delay inform the Commission of any subsequent amendments they make. So, now, if we are talking about the law of this Law, we are, in fact, establishing the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the administrative inspection, and the infringement provisions in the implementation of this Regulation and the six implementing regulations adopted by the Commission since April 2014 to this day. The implementation of the Regulation and this law shall be determined by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. Administrative oversight is carried out by the ministry. The inspection shall be carried out by the inspector of the environment, with regard to the labelling of the products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases, or by the market inspectors and the equipment and products containing them, while the customs authorities of the customs administration shall, of course, carry out the controls. The law also prescribes criminal provisions. I would also like to point out Article 9 of this Act where the treatment of florified greenhouse gases, the handling of devices and equipment containing these substances, the handling of these substances after the end of use, devices and equipment, the verification of the failure of these substances, the method of inclusion, recovery and destruction, the amount of compensation to cover the costs of collection, recovery and destruction of these substances, the way of labelling. Therefore, all of this is actually prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation, which, under this law, the Government is obliged to adopt within 12 months, and until then is actually applicable to the 2014 regulation. Just as information to all those who deal as merchants, either as technicians who maintain such equipment, who use it or our companies that have plants, which have significant amounts of these gases in, say, high-voltage appliances. It continues to apply a provision which is currently in force and at the moment of the laws being passed for them, nothing important is yet to be changed. As far as the Croatian Democratic Community Club is concerned, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32563	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32564	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Totgergeli, you've just spoken here, we're establishing this law and you've spoken in the first person as if we're doing something right now. However, I am obliged here to warn, therefore, that given the European regulation, even minimally is not discussed in the European regulation. So the European regulation is actually being copied, and given that it is being translated, we are installing into Croatian legislation something that we have not been able to influence here in any way with the exception of those 11 MPs who are in the European Parliament who make up about 1.5% of the total number of MPs there. I would be interested in this regulation on greenhouse gases and reductions, which should certainly be welcomed, in which way the application of this Regulation will reduce the use of artificial fertilisers which we know to cause a large number of greenhouse gases, is as far as I think this use is going to increase and all the natural ways of fertilisation are slowly banned, eradicated. So I'm wondering, maybe if you don't know if the legislator of this law knows how it's going to have a positive impact on that segment of pollution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32565	It's a very difficult question. The answer to my colleague Totgergeli's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32566	Comrade Bunjac, I don't think you listened well to what I said because in my debate I deliberately separated the story of the regulation itself and the particular story of the bill that is before us today. So the regulation when we talk, we talk about what the regulation is, and when we talk about the law, then it's talking about what we have to do under that regulation to actually fully apply to the Republic of Croatia. And at no time have I polluted or think that we need to pollute with the regulation of the EU. We know the regulation that we accept it, and I stressed that it has been in force since 1 January 2015 in all EU countries and so do we. I think it's quite clear to everyone in this House. And as for fertilising or artificial manure, natural manure in agriculture, I don't think this regulation has anything to do with it because the regulation in its very name says that it's florad greenhouse gases, so it's exactly those gases that are also in the introduction when I started talking about the regulation said what it refers to. And here I can repeat again, so it applies to greenhouse gases that are used most often as working substances in cooling and air conditioning devices, heat cranes, fire extinguishers and fire extinguishers, in the electronic industry and in high voltage circuits, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32567	Thank you very much. We've concluded the debate with this. Does the promoter want a final address after the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32568	Here I would just like to point out that as a colleague previously noted here it is exclusively about working substances in cooling technology, fire extinguishers and there are more factors that pollute the environment, and here we are focusing on those that are working substances that need to be replaced and not using them anymore. So these other things about agriculture and others will be dealt with with with by other regulations and regulations, and these concern only that part of the heat lifts and other and the training of natural persons who handle it. And that's what these regulations define and those goals that are up to 2030 and the requirements that we need to adapt to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32569	Thank you. And the final replica of my colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32570	Well, I'd like to say that these EU regulations are some good things. Let's just say we have nothing against this, but we have a problem with a regulation that prohibits the use of livestock fertilisers to enrich the soil. So the peasants will be forced to use artificial fertilisers, and it is known that the long-term impact of these artificial fertilisers on the ground is unfavourable, which will say that we as a state have no choice whether we are going to apply a regulation or not, but simply that decision-making process is such that someone else makes something, and then even though we have the Parliament, although we have supposed to have legislative authority in essence it turns out that we do not have it and that we are obliged to apply everything that is put on our table, even if it is at the expense of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32571	Thank you very much. This is what we've concluded. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I regret to say that we have exhausted the agenda for today's item in terms of composition and in time we could have done more. It is our choice to conclude today's work or open a variety of things that I don't think are appropriate. Tomorrow morning at half past ten we continue to work with the Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Accounts and Access to the Basic Account. Thank you very much and until soon. Session adjourned at 15.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-02-0.u32572	The following is the Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No. 517/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EU) No 842/2006, first reading P.Z.E. No. 88. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a law implementing the EU Regulation is hereby adopted. 517/2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 842/2006. 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please engage. Let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 124 votes, we have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
