ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24984	Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you all. Before we begin today's work, I invite you to express our gratitude for a minute of silence and honor the deceased colleagues, former parliamentary representatives Ivan Pauleta, Ivan Grubisic and Juri Šonja. - A moment of silence. - I'm sorry. I can see for a while that there are interested. Agent Goran Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24986	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, please take a break to respond in public to the situation at the University of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24987	Representative Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24988	Dear President, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a break to warn of the poor work of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24989	How would you like to warn?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24990	To the poor work of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Liaison.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24991	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the MOST Club, today is World Water Day, and I would like to warn the public here on behalf of the MOST Club and all of us about the danger of drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24993	Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24994	Dear Mr. President on behalf of the Club of Representatives Change Croatia I demand a pause to once again warn about the problem of unquality imports or unquality meat of suspicious origin and alarming conditions in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24995	Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24996	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am looking for a break to warn the public and colleagues and colleagues here about the difficult position of students and teachers in Croatian studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24997	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24998	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am also looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to discuss the situation at the Zagreb University.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u24999	If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a 10-minute break. It's 9:00 P.M. Six club representatives called for a break. The first club of representatives of HNS, HSU, will speak for them by representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25001	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the HNS and HSU club asked for a break so that the public would once again warn of the unsustainable practice of institutional violence that is being conducted according to the Croatian Studies. As already known for the third day, the blockage of Croatian studies, which was joined by professors, has taken place. It is an entirely incredible paradox that at a time when the Minister of Science is a philosopher is actually going by institutional pressure on the abolition of philosophy studies at Croatian Studies. It is about the decision to abolish the registration quota in the philosophy study and that is something that raises the future of the Croatian University in Zagreb because, as you know, the abolition of the registration quotas in the philosophy study is only the first step towards abolishing Croatian studies. That's what all students understand and what teachers understand, but what's completely incomprehensible is that it allows that kind of institutional violence out of revenge. We warn the Titanic Government that it is totally inadmissible to put pressure on it, and then the subsequent and abolition of the university institution just because some professors of philosophy studies, Croatian studies signed a petition that openly opposes practice and tolerance towards plagiarism. There is no doubt that there is no other rational reason because there is not a single reasoned submission or study presented to the public, nor a document on the basis of which such institutional pressure, or reconstruction within the University of Zagreb, would be justified. We would like to see, of course, that all decisions of such type are based on quality studies, i.e. documents showing a different, more rational organisation of the University of Zagreb. But we must be aware that there is an institution of university autonomy and that this is now a situation in which the third time in a year police intervene at the University of Zagreb. So is it possible that for such peaceful reasons as the issue of organisation of studies, such as the question of recognition of the rights of students first at the Faculty of Philosophy, and now also at Croatian Studies, police are sent to students. What kind of society do we live in? These are issues that must be resolved by the Rector Boras, who must be addressed by the Minister of Science and these are issues in their jurisdiction. Sending the police to their own students because of the decisions they've made is, above all, a disgrace. The second is a demonstration of force in one zone where force cannot be. What's gonna be the next step? Could a study at the Faculty of Philosophy and Religious Sciences known as the Faculty of Philosophy of the Society of Jesus be abolished just because some professors there publicly protested against the Minister of plagiarism who should have left the Ban Courts a long time ago. So will this revenge be extended to other components of the University of Zagreb where students who are also professors are particularly professors who have publicly opposed the tolerance of plagiarism practices at the University of Zagreb. As liberals, we must react that what is not normal must not become normal. What is not right must not be declared good for some, above all, personal, political, or pragmatic reasons. Let's listen to what the students at the Croatian Studies say, listen to what the valorisation of the quality of these studies looks like and we'll be clear. There's no rabbit here. The rabbit is obviously in an attempt to retaliate the academic community in the area in which the plagiarism practice was opposed. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25002	The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representatives club also asked for a break. In their name will be a representative of Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25003	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Live Wall and SNAGA club asked for a break to warn of the ministry's poor work on transport, maritime affairs and connections. Since 1 April 2017, tolls will be collected by 5% and by an additional 10% as of 1 July 2017. So our citizens will get into a situation where they'll be cheaper on their plane to Split than on the highway. It will also be in a situation that one route to Zagreb – Split will cost them more than the annual wine in Romania or return to Zagreb will cost them as much as the annual vignette in Switzerland. Many European countries have vignettes, they cost relative to Croatian opportunities extremely little, although the standard of these citizens is much higher. It should also be noted that there are European countries that do not charge tolls at all, such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia and other countries. We already have an incredible situation right now to save one minute of transportation to charge incredible two kunas. So someone travelling from Čakovec to Zagreb will pay 40 kuna to save 15 or 20 minutes of time, which means that highways will no longer be driven by anyone but those civil servants whose toll is returned from the budget. Countless times so far, the profession has shown that vines are far more cost-effective than tolls, and they would also contribute to increasing road safety, reducing pressure on local roads, developing the economy in particular, and raising GDP. Polls show that more than 90% of Croatian citizens are to introduce vignette instead of toll. During his duties, Minister Oleg Butkovic said in 19.1.2016 that vignettes are the only real solution. 3.2.2016 reiterated that claim, on 12 February 2016, Minister Butkovic announced the introduction of vignettes by the end of 2016, and also said that this would reduce costs, increase payment, and then took a loan of 500 thousand kuna for that purpose to conduct a study on the introduction of vignettes. It is now the third month of 2017, the vignette is not only gone but has completely given up, be careful for which excuses, for the sake of social peace, for the sake of social peace. So citizens taking the last kuna out of their pockets are said to be the introduction of tolls is the achievement of social peace. In addition to this complete illogicality, it should be noted that the Ministry of Transport has major problems with the excessive costs around the Pelješko bridge, that these days we are reading about the embarrassing delay in the performance of the bridge at Ciovo which was to be put into circulation on June 15th, and we are now learning that after two and more years, only half of the bridge is completed, that workers do not get paid, that they have left construction sites and that the bridge will probably not be finished in 2018. In addition to all this, long-term cases of monopoly and possible criminal activities at the Centre for Vehicles in the Croatian Autoclub are being dragged, etc. It is evident from all of this that the Ministry of Transport has no clear plan or strategy, and that the accumulated debts are meant to be resolved by their transfer to citizens. So the ministry's incompetence will be paid by Croatian citizens who already have no money to deal with basic existential issues anyway. It would be fair that before this burden is transferred to the citizens, the government's bad moves would be met primarily by prime ministers and ministers. Obviously, the problem we have with highways is not about one individual, no matter what his name is, whether it's Mr. Calmeta or Cacic, but whether it's about the whole system of interesting lobbys that robbed the state budget and citizens under HDZ's patronage who have no courage, but not even the knowledge to bring things back to the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25004	The MOST advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will speak MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25005	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today is World Water Day. Today, '93. In the year was the UN Conference in Rio de Janeiro, and then there was a speech about the threat of drinking water, so today we have 1.7 billion people who do not have the opportunity to have drinking water in everyday use, while in Croatia we have this possibility and that is the main resource and the Croatian potential is drinking water. However, we see that in recent times poor management and poor protection of drinking water and its sources we have problems with the questionable quality in the large area of the Republic of Croatia regarding water. Water is one of three main resources with energy and knowledge. Croatia is the fifth even richest country in Europe, there are still Iceland, Norway, Finland and Russia, but Croatia is the only one in the warm band and that is why Croatia is in an extremely important geostrategic position. Of course, until we obviously as a society are even aware of it, capital largely recognized it, he threw his hands at that greatest fortune of ours. The legislation of the Republic of Croatia defines water as a particularly good and heritage to be preserved, protected and applied wisely and rationally, however, it is not in reality. With regard to wastewater management, we can see it in large cities, agglomeration fields that sewers and even open wastewaters go directly into the river without any purifiers such as. in my Sinj, in the river Cetina. I'll give two examples now obvious how we treat it. The first project of Lečevica, in the middle of a debris that has been proven to be connected to the Adriatic spring that feeds all over Split, has been built a dump, the waste dump is intended, and this same debris is the vault of our underground link under the Dinarid with the river Jadro, the river Cetina. Another example is the Perun thermal power plant. Peru is the largest accumulation of drinking water in Croatia since the first virgin category. Cetina is the highest capacity of drinking water flow from source to mouth. and then we bring in instead of protecting this, the Government of 2015, by the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Effective Cogenerations of 10 September 2015, means the SDP Government is passing a law where it actually allows that in this way, without protection and... as an example of using renewable energy exports and can endanger these drinking waters. In Norway and Sweden, drinking water must not even be bathed, fishing is strictly limited and any industry is least polluted, the country's pollution is strictly prohibited. We urgently need to make and protect this potential, we can do so by the Law on the Protection of the Breach in order to protect its underworld. The leading names of the scientific and civil society signed a declaration of violation as early as 2010. The declaration required the creation of a special Law on Violation and the introduction of additional protection mechanisms in the already existing Nature Protection Act for the purpose of the full valorisation of Croatian debris. Croatia is unique in world terms, it is our resource and potential. Since today, if our area of debris has, our entire Republic has 52% of the space, it means Christian, it means 29 thousand square meters. Here we need to include all the professional and economic and particularly political elites that have so far ignored this resource. Talking about water today isn't just enough. We do not have the right to confiscate our children's right to drinking water, drinking water, and therefore to all of you and our citizens with clean drinking water “Cheers!”
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25006	Thank you, Agent Buljo. Representatives' Club Change Croatia also volunteered for a break and on their behalf will be spoken by MP Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25007	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens who are now listening to or watching us. Last year, Croatia directly imported food from Brazil, of which the dominant meat is worth half a billion kuna. I repeat, food imported, the dominant meat from Brazil worth half a billion kuna. So on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia I want to point to two major problems. What's that? The constant growth in food imports and the decline of domestic production and exports one and the other very often imports of non-quality, suspicious and medically incorrect foods and especially meat. In this sense, we ask that the Government be shown in this House of the High on what they will do about it, that is, did it exercise control over meat imports, especially beef and chicken, from Brazil, I stress from Brazil? And what does he intend to do to prevent the import of unskilled food? Look, when someone from Brazil imports so much food, it's, you know, where Brazil is, we all know, it's far away. It means that food for some reason must be very cheap in supply. I don't want to prejudge anything. But that's obviously a sign, I'm not going to say an alarm but a serious question. Let me give this opportunity a few disturbing information that the government is not talking about enough and doesn't care. Croatia imports more than 2.5 billion euros in food each year and this import is increasing every year, which is the worst. But today I want to concentrate on meat imports because I asked for a break. Since Croatia's accession, meat imports have been growing dramatically and domestic production has been in constant decline. Well, you see, according to the association's data, the Croatian cattleman, from 2013 to 2015, imported incredible 91% more beef from 2013 to 2015. 82% more pig meat has been imported and as much as 70% of milk imports have increased, I repeat a 70%. So every other liter of milk in Croatia is imported. And now we see what the global perception of the entry of Lactalis, not only in Croatia but also in these transition countries, was said one thing, that it would be better, that production would grow, but the village was thus destroyed, and thus the demographics of villages and the emptying of space. That's the logic. In this context, I would also like to point out that from 2013 to 2015, imports of chicken meat, poultry meat increased 34%, and at that time before that we met the full needs of production. Again, I ask the Government how much of it may be healthy, unquality meat and how much of it is from Brazil. So to answer that question. And a few more data. In 2015, about 20 thousand cattle were imported more than in 2014, 21%, which means the increase of 21%. Exports were shrinking during that time. Total cow milk production was reduced at the time. Imports of pigs of all categories in those two years increased by 75 thousand throats to 17%. And so on and so forth. So this means that we are apparently importing huge quantities of meat while domestic production is failing. What's up imports are obviously meat of suspicious quality and neglect is healthy, domestic production. I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture why he did not carry out extensive controls to determine whether there is also how much healthy import meat especially from Brazil in our shops, and what will it do to change that? You see, initially, measures were announced pompously with import lobbys due to poor meat. At first, we all supported and said here is the brave man of the minister. Now we're asking why you care? What happened? Is the minister afraid of an import lobby or has he given up for some other reason? So these are questions that require an answer. If it is established, we are therefore interested in what information the Assistant Minister has stated that he does not doubt food safety and if he shows up Otherwise, I'm willing to resign to my posts. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25008	Thank you. The SDP advocates' club also requested a break. In their name will be the representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last time we seemed to have addressed us from this same pay phone last week with a warning and suspicion of retaliatory in the Senate's decision on quotas for enrolment in the philosophy study at the Croatian Studies. Today, as counterpart Beus said, Croatian studies are in a blockade. So, students, young people who want knowledge and don't like being on the street. They think the current administration has done damage and are looking for shifts. They're also asking for quotas to be returned for enrolment. How can Croatia be a country of knowledge when excellence is not a criterion? How to be a land of knowledge when under the auspices of the university when corruption, nepotism, plagiarism is booming. In the debate on confidence, Pavi Barisic was warned that he could not perform his duty if he was interested in the key actors of these events, these events that caused the students not to attend colleges but to be on the street. Their professors are solidarity with them. Don't Pavi Barisic or the rector Boras cause nausea, uniformed, armed police officers at the university? There's one rule that uniformed people at the university and college are allowed only with the express permission of the dean. It's part of the university's autonomy. Otherwise universals or university translated into Croatian, but universals in Latin means community, unity of those who seek knowledge and excellence and those who possess and transfer them. That university, that community at this point doesn't live in either the recession or the ministry. It rests at this moment among those students and professors who block Croatian studies. They understand that university autonomy is not the autonomy of corruption, not the autonomy of plagiarism and nepotism, but the autonomy of thought. Autonomy in search of knowledge, autonomy and freedom of speech. What these students and teachers are doing is clean and that's why we support them, so we're solid with them. With this pay phone, we tell students and teachers that we're with them. We invite them to contact us if we can help them in any way, of course respecting the autonomy of the university and understanding that politics has what politics is about, and that science is something else and autonomy is something else. We invite Croatian citizens to support them. They're our young people, they're our scientists. This is where patriotism is shown, and this is how, with the escort of the armed officers of our young people and our scientists, the rector and minister can only be escorted to the nearest bus station, to the nearest and next bus to Germany, to Ireland or to the newly opened airport of Dr. Francis Tudjman, to the first flight to Norway or any other country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25010	The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be spoken by MP Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25011	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community I will also look back on the situation at Croatian Studies, and I will begin to stress that it is not a matter of retribution at Croatian Studies, but rather of better linking and profiling philosophy studies in Croatian Studies on the basis of the re-accreditation of Croatian Studies. For example, as we know from the provision of Article 68. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the autonomy of the university while Article 4. The Law on scientific activity and higher education, academic self-government at higher universities, includes the establishment of rules of study and enrolment of students and the management of high-school resources. Therefore, the autonomy of universities includes, among other things, the establishment of educational, scientific, artistic and professional programmes where the University Senate determines the study capacities, registration policies and determines the registration quotas. Next, the Senate of the University of Zagreb decided on 17 January this year to change the status of the University of University of Croatia study in the University Department of Croatia as a branch office of the University of Zagreb, where the existing departments of the University Centre Croatian studies continue to work as sections of the university department, and employees, external associates, students retain all rights acquired on the basis of concluded contracts. Therefore, students enrolled in Croatian Studies have the right to complete studies according to the programme and the conditions which were valid the moment they entered the study. It is important to note that on 14 March this year, the Senate of the University of Zagreb decided that students will not be enrolled in the first year of their studies in the following academic year and that new study programmes of philosophy will not be prepared at Croatian Studies because it would be a triple study at the University of Zagreb. However, I stress this, the fact that in the Postgraduate Study of the current philosophy study programme, new students will no longer be enrolled does not mean at all that it does not mean that the Department of Philosophy is abolished or that philosophy is abolished at Croatian Studies. For her, it will certainly be an important programme component of studies in the Croatian Studies to find an appropriate form, which will not be contrary to the requirement that the study courses in Croatian Studies cannot be overlapped with other studies conducted at the University and will be designed for philosophical content, in a way that will find a new framework in which they will find their place, in such a way as to meet the mission of Croatian Studies, but also need to be further highlighted here, with the letter of expectations of then Minister Vedran Mornar from 2014 in which they are asked to avoid parallelisms with other components of the University of Zagreb and to connect and profile themselves better on the basis of previously implemented re-acretion in Croatian Studies. Here I find it important to inform the public of two important things. First, the University of Zagreb has the right to design and co-create study programmes, but they cannot decide on their own components on which programmes are implemented. And two. The Senate's decision did not violate the rights of students or employees, and all students will have the right to complete their studies under those conditions that were valid during their enrolment, as well as those who are already in pre-graduate studies, the following academic year will be able to enroll in the degree studies of philosophy. And therefore, students have absolutely no reason to worry about their rights. Nevertheless, in one part of the student population, and among some professors, this Senate decision was not well accepted, and we all know that the following happened in Croatian studies on 20 March to violent teaching interference. And the decision to disrupt the teaching process was made by a set of students and citizens, among whom they were not only students, but were represented students and citizens outside the Croatian Studies institution. A group of citizens and students called the Student Assembly. It is important here to stress that the Croatian Administration of Studies has condemned this extra-institutional form of activity because it does not lead to lighting and solving the problem taken as a cause of action. And on the other hand, management together has taken a number of steps with the Croatian Studies Administration together with the University of Zagreb to settle this situation and solve the problem. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u25012	Thank you. We're moving on to the agenda. The first item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, P.Z.E. Number 78. Representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33820	Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, he would suggest that the first, second and third points be united by the debate because in fact all the proposed laws are de facto on the same subject and are interlinked. This second point puts the law out of force because the provisions of that law go into the Code of Criminal Procedure or already there are, so here's our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33821	Representative Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33822	Mr. President, the same proposal is ours. So just because we're economical, there's no point in going with separate points, so we're joining this merger proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33823	Representative Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33824	Your Honor, we object to the unification of the debate. We are surprised that SDP and HDZ always have the same opinion when it comes to speaking for the benefit of Croatian citizens. This is a topic that Croatian citizens are extremely interested in. If there is a need to unite the debate, unite the European directives and regulations, not what is crucial for Croatia, which is the issue of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33825	Thank you. I will only read for the audience once again the first three points so: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, P.Z.E. No 78, - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Abuse of Property Use Procedures by Crime and Violation, First Reading, P.Z. No 79 and - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, first reading, P.Z. Number 80. Since the debate in all three points was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Proposer is in front of the Committee on Legislatives if I can understand Mr. Bošnjaković under Article 247 they have the right to do so if other clubs agree, and then the majority of MPs agree that we should conduct a unification of the debate by these three points, so that we continue united by the first three points, according to Article 247 if you look at it. We continue with a united debate at these three points. The proposal is therefore proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Minister Sprite. Be my guest, Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33826	I agree, you have made it clear that a united debate can be held on a proposal from the parent body. However, the practice in the Parliament has always been if all clubs have agreed. Since we see that not all clubs have agreed to this, then, according to the Rules of Procedure and as usual, you would have to ask for a vote that all representatives present make a statement about it. That's the practice she's been up to now. But seeing as we don't have a majority, I think you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and we're all here with you if we're going to have a united debate. So I suggest you ask for a vote, let us know who we are, and then we go to a united debate. I don't mind at all, but I say, I'm afraid, we're violating the Rules of Procedure and the practice that it's always been.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33827	I agree it was usually a multi-club deal. There are no obstacles to the Rules of Procedure, so there are no obstacles to the Rules of Procedure. With the usual practice being to set up clubs all together. Since most MPs were there and, as far as I can see, the quorum is missing to do so, so that not only for procedural reasons, not even for procedural reasons but for the usual practice at the end of the three debates, instead of one, I made it possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33828	I practically agree, Mr. President. However, you have made a commitment as chairman and all of us here to respect the Rules of Procedure. I'm just telling you to follow the Rules of Procedure. Because if we don't have a majority, then we need to conduct an individual debate according to a single legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33829	As regards the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to do so, so you have absolutely no article in the Rules of Procedure that can not be done, we are only talking about the usual practice. I'm truly sorry if it wasn't all agreed in advance in a conversation between representatives' clubs to have a united debate. I'm also glad that you said that you personally don't mind and I think that we'll sum up the time and at this point we can't make a vote, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's all neat. Minister Sprite.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33830	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Draft proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CAP, namely the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, and the draft law on the termination of the Act on the Abuse of Property Beneficial Procedures, which we will call in the text, i.e. in the presentation of the ZPOIK. This proposal for a package of laws proposes the 7th amendments and additions to the 2008 CAP, as well as the amendments to the USHOP Act, and the termination of the ZPOIK and the reason for proposing a comprehensive intervention in as many as 3 laws are the primary harmonisation of domestic legislation with the EU acquis. By Directive 20127297EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA, Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right to access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and on the basis of a European arrest warrant and on the right to inform a third party in the event of confiscation of freedom and communication with third parties and consular bodies. Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of property assets and... criminal part within the EU and Directive 2014/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the criminal legal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA. As regards the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences and replacing Council Framework Decision 2011/220/JHA. Although the 2008 CAP already contains a series of provisions governing the rights of the victim, which provides victims with a very high degree of protection and their rights, the transposition of certain provisions of that Directive nevertheless requires intervention in a series of provisions of the 2008 CAP. In the first order, in the provision of Chapter V of the CAP, but also in the very definition of the victim. Furthermore, the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in the procedure on the basis of a European arrest warrant and the right to notify a third party in the event of withdrawal of freedom and communication to third parties and consular authorities also required the intervention of part of the provisions of the CAP. I also point out that, as a result of the correct transposition of that Directive, it was necessary to amend the definition of suspects referred to in Article 202(2). The CAP. In view of the provisions of that Directive governing the scope of the Directive and following an analysis of the applicable provisions of the CAP, it is concluded that it is necessary to intervene in Article 208. The CAP, which regulates the issue of informed talks with suspects who, in essence, represent an examination within the meaning of the provisions of the directive, should, from that moment on, enable suspects to actively exercise their right to access the defender. As particularly important, there was also the need to regulate situations where, during the collection of information, it found that there are fundamental doubts regarding the initiation of a criminal offence in relation to a particular person. In view of the fact that from that moment on, this person becomes a suspect and acquires all the rights which belong to it in accordance with the Directive. Although the directive does not impose obligations on the evidence force of those studies after extensive and long-term discussions on this issue during which comparative law solutions have also been drawn, most EU Member States have been found not to know at all about the Institute of Information Talks with Suspects in these EU Member States. to vary in general formal and informal trials of suspects, rather than testing the suspects with prescribed warnings, and in the vast majority of police may conduct an examination of a suspect who has a force of proof. So it's concluded that any investigation of the suspect in front of the police with or without a defense attorney provided that the suspect has been properly warned and... It was necessary to give evidence of force in the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of the fact that part of the violations of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms established by the European Court of Human Rights in relation to the conduct of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia are precisely related to the stage of investigation by the police to ensure that the procedural rights of suspects are respected and that possible infringements are prevented. It is proposed that, as an additional guarantee of the legality of police conduct and the evidence force of this investigation, during the subsequent procedure, the investigation of suspects is prescribed in front of the police by means of an audio and video recording device. The audio and video recording would include an overall examination including a lesson on rights and a possible explicit waiver from rights to defenders, i.e. Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3.4.2014 on the freezing and confiscation of property benefit cases achieved by criminal acts in the EU, as shown in a procedural legal manner. It was necessary... provisions relating to the process of confiscation of property benefit, confiscation on the basis of a conviction and withdrawal without a judgment under Article 4 of the Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Provisional insurance measures to confiscate the property benefit of the so-called so-called property. the freezing of assets pursuant to Article 7 of the Directive and the measures to ensure active participation in the proceedings and protection of the rights of the defendants and other persons in respect of which temporary measures are applied to ensure the confiscation of the property benefit, etc. the protection measures referred to in Article 8 of the Directive. That substance is currently regulated by the Law on the Abuse of Assets by Criminal and Violation, but partly by the regulated provision of the CAP in 2008 and the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. It should be noted that although the PDOIK was firstly adopted with the aim of bringing together the legal regulation of the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal act and the infringement, i.e. to achieve a full, clearer and simpler regulation of this process remains, it remained regulated and in other laws, and that objective was not achieved. Therefore, due to the fact that the confiscation of property benefit remained partially regulated and other rules in practice, the process of confiscation of property benefit could also be implemented without the invitation to the PDOIK, which led to the rare application of that law in practice. In view of the above, and following a broad debate on this issue with the representatives of the expert public, the Proposer decided to move some of the key provisions of the PDO to the PDO. In this respect, the substantive amendments to certain provisions aim to bring together the legal regulation of the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts, i.e. illegal action in one regulation. The applicant's request is that the pooling of key provisions relating to the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from a criminal offence in the CAP avoids the inequality in their application, but also the current example of the practice which shows that, depending on the specific case and practice of a particular court, the competition provisions of the PDOIK, the PDO and the KZ which significantly regulate the same material, for example, by calling on the PDOIK, the PDOIK or the KZ when making a decision to confiscate the property benefit resulting from the criminal act, the confiscation of the property benefit and without the proposal of an authorised prosecutor, by calling on Article 5. KZ and stuff. Such examples point to the conclusion that the PDOIK has not yet achieved its primary objective, which is the basic reason for the proposed changes to the PDOIK to be transferred to the CAP. In order to achieve this parallel with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, it is envisaged to adopt the Law amending the USKOK Act, and the Law on the termination of the Act on the Abuse of Property Benefit and Violation. The entry into force of the Law amending the USCOD Act would cease to be subject to provisions governing the provision of forced confiscation of funds, income or property obtained by criminal acts. Since they will become redundant at the time of entry into force of the laws and additions of the CAP, in which all relevant provisions on the procedure for proposing and laying down temporary measures to be taken by the property benefit to be applied also in matters within the competence of the USKOK. In relation to the Law on the termination of the ZOPOIK's validity, the transfer to the CAP of the provisions of the PDOIK, which enters into the procedural law, has made the existence of a special Act on the process of confiscation of the property benefit to the excess team more the matter in question as... It is now becoming part of the organic law to ensure the full uniform application of these provisions in practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/62/EU on the criminal and legal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383 POP, having regard to the fact that it is a directive which is only secondary to the matter of criminal procedural law in order to transpose Article 9 of that Directive, it was necessary to intervene in Article 334. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. KZ. In the remaining part of that provision, I quote the directive has already been transposed into the CAP since Article 334(2) of the Directive is set out in Article 334(2). As one of the criminal offences for which it is possible to determine the application of specific evidence actions, the criminal offence of counterfeiting of money referred to in Article 234 shall be indicated. KZ. The remaining changes are the result of the needs identified by the practice of removing perceived ambiguities and harmonising with relevant national law. The following changes should be highlighted as some of the more important ones. Amendments to the Guarantee Institute shall be proposed in such a way that the investigating prison may be abolished or replaced by a guarantee only if it is determined that the person suspected of committing a criminal offence in escape or, in particular, the circumstances indicate the danger of escape. The position of the Ministry of Justice is that the guarantee institute as a measure to ensure the presence of the defendants in criminal proceedings should certainly be regulated significantly more restrictive than the existing legal solution. Therefore, a solution is proposed that the guarantee institute cannot replace an investigative prison in cases of conflictal danger in the impact on witnesses, the destruction of evidence,... the danger of repetitive criminal acts and the danger of public harassment in criminal offences for which long-term imprisonment is possible, and the circumstances of the crimes are particularly difficult. It was also pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its decision U-3-1451/2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The CAP, which regulates the settlement of the costs of the criminal proceedings, would basically return the legal solution before the 2013 novel. The proposed solution would authorise courts to free the convicts of the settlement of the costs of criminal proceedings in the event of a poor property situation and where it would question the existence of the defendants and members of his family. According to the existing model, the courts have been prevented from releasing the convicts of censure of criminal proceedings regardless of his property situation and income. It is proposed that the police notify the state's attorney without delay... within 24 hours, replace the mandatory timely notice of the actions taken. In particular, in order to speed up police conduct and to increase its effectiveness, to reduce unnecessary administration to the minimum possible extent, but to retain the control of the state's attorney over the actions conducted by the police in the previous procedure, no-technically separated police conduct when collecting information from citizens and questioning suspects, which is justified by the importance of matter. It is also more clearly prescribed that the police authorities take the necessary evidence actions independently in such a way as to inform the State's attorney, except for carrying out the evidence and temporary confiscation of cases and investigations, for the offences prescribed for which the sentence is more than five years in the event of the danger of delay and the need to carry out the evidence. News that the state's attorney could take emergency evidence actions leaves to the police, it points out that the MUP and the DORH agree with this arrangement, the more co-operation the two bodies have detailedly prescribed the Protocol on their mutual cooperation. With regard to the work of state attorneys, amendments are proposed which aim to further balance the requirement for the effectiveness of criminal prosecution with protection for the protection of defence rights. This introduces the '97 Institute for Enlargement of Investigations, which the CAP also knew. the year, which is necessary to re-sign because of the need to which the 2008 daily implementation of the 2008 CAP in the work of certain lawyers has been indicated. In addition, a simpler concept of extending the investigation is proposed to discharging state lawyers from administration during the formal extension of the investigation. Pre-inclusive deadlines shall be extended for bringing an indictment with the introduction of the Institute of Return to the Previous State unless the indictment is brought within the legal time limit for reasons justifiable to which the court decides. Furthermore, detailed institutions are the withdrawal of the indictment and the return of the indictment, whose subjugation in practice has caused some confusion. Amendments to Articles 409, 410 and 411 are proposed. The CAP, which extends the possibility of shooting discussions with audio or audio-video recording devices, has shown that the implementation of a pilot of a tonne recording project conducted in Vukovar IPA in 2010, the project to strengthen the efficiency of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, has already shown that audio recording of the debate with certain amendments to the CAP proposed by this proposal would speed up its course, and allow judges not only to manage the debate more easily, but also better to monitor the testimony of the defendants, witnesses and witches as their content would not be entered into the record in the debate. This should lead to the acceleration of criminal proceedings as a whole, and contribute to the greater effectiveness of the judicial system in support of which the conclusion tells the experience of other EU Member States. It should be pointed out that the applicant had in mind the results of that project when drawing up new provisions, and first of all the experiences and proposals presented by the judges involved in the project. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The CAP which prescribes what all should contain an explanation of the solution to the investigative prison. The proposed addendum would point out that, in the light of the solution to the prison of investigation, the court must state both the facts and the evidence resulting from the existence of a reasonable doubt that the defendant committed a criminal offence, the existence of legal grounds for determining the prison of investigation, the reasons why the court considers that the purpose of the prison of investigation cannot be achieved by a minor measure as well as the reasons for the level of the guarantee, and further pointed out that, at any extension of the length of the investigation, the court must be determined and fully state the circumstances justifying its further application. The basic reason for further clarification and addition of that provision is in the European Court of Human Rights rulings, e.g. Margetic v. Croatia, which has been found to be in violation of Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms against the damages of applicants due to insufficiently reasoned decisions by national courts which have extended the application of the Institute of Investigation Penitentiary against the defendants and similar injuries, but in relation to the Institute of Detention of the ZP '97. The rulings of Dervisi v. Croatia,... against Croatia, Orban v. Croatia, Dragini v. Croatia, Presa v. Croatia, etc. In addition, Article 497, 506, 507 and 508. The CAP is proposed as a consequence of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Mirjana Sanader case against Croatia. That judgment provides for an infringement of Article 6(1). The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to the Harm of the applicant, given that the applicant did not, in the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, be able to renew the procedure after being convicted in absentia. By analysing the conduct of national courts in a specific case as a relevant practice in similar cases, the European Court of Human Rights is in accordance with Article 497(2) as regards the conditions for the renewal of proceedings. The law on criminal proceedings states that I quote "there can be no statement on the obligation of the accused to surrender himself for detention in order to ensure the right to retrial under conditions which are in accordance with Article 6. The Convention, as this would mean conditionality on the exercise of the right to a fair trial by handing over the body's freedom of defendants as a guarantee." In accordance with the above, amendments to the relevant provisions of the CAP are proposed and due to the execution of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Finally, it should be pointed out that due to the need for practice under Article 448(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, there is a need for a practice in accordance with Article 448(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The CAP introduces the possibility of reopening the debate. These have proved necessary since the 5th November of the December 2013 CAP is the 5th novel of the CAP. In the CAP, the inquisitor maxes to which the court is authorised to carry out all the evidence it considers relevant for the decision on the procedure. It may decide to provide evidence other than that proposed by the party or by which the applicant has resigned, Article 419(3). The CAP. In practice, the debate shall be opened without explicit legal provisions in such a way that the Court finds that the legal conditions for a ruling have not been met during the meeting. It is therefore proposed to amend that provision in such a way as to prescribe that the court will deliver a ruling unless it finds, during the meeting, that the debate should be reopened in order to supplement the procedure and resolve certain issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33831	Representative Branimir Bunjac, I think you've warned of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33832	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The Rules of Procedure, Article 247(4), which states that a united debate may be sought by the Legislative Committee rather than by the chairman of the Legislative Committee. So Mr Bošnjakovic, without a decision of the Legislative Committee, could not seek a united debate and for this reason I believe that a separate debate should continue. If you feel that, if you insist on having a united debate, then the Living Wall and SNAGE Club will exercise its right to Article 236. Rules of Procedure and request a written opinion of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33833	Mr Bunjac, Article 247 of the last sentence, states: "A joint debate may be held on the proposal of the Chairman of the Working Body, the Committee on Legislatives or Clubs of Representatives of two or more points of the established agenda." So it's filled with four possibilities, all four possibilities. So, “On the proposal of the chairman of the home working body, the Committee on Legislatives or Clubs of Representatives..., you can choose which of these options you will choose, however, the possibility and the option used is given. And of course, if you feel that this is not according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the opportunity to exercise your rights. We're moving on with the replicas. Representative Peja Grbin, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33834	Thank you, Mr. President. My replica refers to something that has caused quite a debate at the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and has gone well below the radar regarding this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's about the High Court of Penitentiary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you have not noticed by reading this law, Croatia is scheduled to receive a new court from 1.1.2018, the High Criminal Court. However, such a court is not provided for by the Court Act. Such a court should refer to the resolution of appeal cases in all criminal matters. On the other hand, we have the Supreme Court and its penal department that successfully, continuously, continuously reduces the backlogs in criminal cases. We have a budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 in which not one word, not a single sentence, is intended for the introduction of a High Criminal Court, nor is it intended for material costs for its establishment. Also, we have a High Criminal Court that should start working on this law in 1.1.2018 and we do not have the spatial conditions for the start of his work. So to clarify, the CAP has long been scheduled for the establishment of the High Criminal Court, but this has never been brought into practice and has been continuously delayed. The latest delay envisioned his start of work for 1.1.2020, however, with a tendency not to do so. It is now scheduled to begin work 1.1.2018. I support the CAP's changes because they're good. And I hope you change this provision until the second reading. But I'm interested, Mr. Minister, is that your attitude? Your colleagues representing the law on the Justice Committee mentioned the possibility of giving it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33835	Thank you, Mr. Grbin. Representative Josip Salapic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To take advantage of the opportunity in front of the club that I agree that this debate was to be united because it was fully related laws and there was no point in separating the debate. Mr. Minister, it was necessary to make these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and our obligation is to implement the EU directive, I understand that. However, I do not agree in one part of the proposed law relating to the amendments introducing the Institute for Prolongation of Investigation. I spoke to lawyers in the criminal legal area, and they are also concerned as experts about that part of the CAP's amendments because we had just limited those deadlines to 6 months and with the possibility of an extension of up to a year. And now the possibility is that, with formal hiding behind legal deadlines, we're going to contribute to the state's attorneys to dissipate formal concerns, which is to extend that deadline of investigation. I don't understand how it's possible for these amendments to the law to get to that deadline that it lasts up to 2 years and at most 3 to 4 years. How is it possible that the party in the proceedings may be in the investigation for so long. I think that's where we enter the sphere of human rights violations guaranteed by the Constitution, that we need to think about it a little bit more. It's really not clear to me how it's possible for these reasons, I believe there's a huge burden on the state's attorney's office but we haven't been around that for a few years now, because it's just what we've been limiting ourselves to, because, in this case, we're breaking it and that's where we need to intervene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33837	Representative Mile Horvat, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33838	I thank Mr. Minister, I will refer here to a very important institute that I think should be given a little more attention to, and that is to renew the procedure for the sentencing of things in the absence of a war crimes trial. Namely, Croatia has handed over some of the about 9 hundred such cases to the Serbian prosecutor's office, where the list of people indicted or convicted in the absence of war crimes in Croatia. It's not a small number. We're now talking about the possibility of resuscitation. The problem arises first in the fact that people can't come to any of the prosecutions, either here or in Serbia, to see if their name is on that list. The second thing, according to the provisions of the old law of Article 497, which we are now changing to bring about the renewal of the judgment procedure in the absence of a man of the sea, must be condemned for a year here. In that year he has the right to request a retrial, but as soon as he's here, he's arrested, treated like a convict, right, and then he's out of prison defending himself, defending his freedom, or looking for a renewal, and it's been going on for years. At the request of this Directive, where you have said that we are now amending the existing Article 497 of the Directive, there can be no obligation to surrender in the renewal process because freedom cannot be guaranteed. Therefore, I am now asking you to explain to us a little more detail whether these amendments in Article 497 guarantee that the renewal process will be conducted in a way that people will defend themselves from freedom because it is necessary here for the defender to just deliver the address for the delivery of the list, or for the delivery of the file, and that the convict promises to respond to the court procedure. So, do you, I'd ask for an explanation whether these people will defend themselves from freedom in restoring the process. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33839	Thank you. Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33840	Mr. Minister, you've come here with a proposal for a new law, a united debate, and I'm asking you this is an insane society, we have a hyper-production of the law. 80% of all the laws in this House have been passed by emergency procedure, and I'm asking you one elemental thing. Well, we don't have that many problems with the law, we have very high-quality laws. Why doesn't the judiciary enforce those laws? Answer that question. Don't bury these lawyers, these citizens with new laws all the time. Bring in the justice system. It is the cancer of Croatian society and state. In your court case, we have a pretty widespread phenomenon of incestuous relationships where the judge and the lawyer are mates, partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33841	Representative Ivan Lovrinović, please stick to the topic. The topics are these three laws, proposals for laws that are being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33842	Mr. President, what am I talking about other than the judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33843	Don't talk. There are three draft laws to be discussed. If you want to talk about incestuous links in the judiciary ask for a break and you can free five minutes only about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33844	I'll keep this up, Mr. President. I can't get the impression that you're defending a member of your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33845	I would like to ask Agent Ivan Lovrinović to give you a reminder at this time. So I made it very clear that as a representative, you stick to the subject. I'm not defending anyone, I'm presidening and maintaining order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33846	Therefore, EU directives are not a sacred letter. You are calling for it to be possible, could have been brought before, but I am referring to the fact that if we only technically want to apply something that the EU is asking for, and we are not conducting a criminal procedure, so let's discuss criminal proceedings. What has been achieved since the criminal proceedings? It's a story of criminal proceedings. Please report on the effectiveness of the current Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33847	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33848	Mr. President, here among other things, one of the topics is how more effectively to address the property benefit achieved by the criminal act and the violation which I think is crucial. So, Croatian citizens have no confidence in the judiciary precisely because what is crucial in fighting corruption, which is to prevent the work from benefiting those who committed it. Therefore, the endless lengthy duration of the process in Croatia makes these processes already absurd. Here I'll quote, so you have double-painted tunnels of which double painting has brought great benefits to some, and that benefit will never be denied. The “On behalf of the family” association receives free stands from the mayor of Zagreb. The minister's making some sort of Renaissance traffic renaissance film. Money goes into private pockets. FIMI Media, the government is won on the basis of corrupt actions and money stolen from the Croatian budget, and this is the best example. Here it is, October 2012. Your Honor, I'll be paying the money as soon as possible, I need 30 days. Thus, the owner of the DEOKI, Robert Jezic, answered the question at the end of October 2012, of Judge Ivan Turudic when he would pay 5m euros at the expense of the County Court, which, according to his statement, were to be bribed to former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader in order to leave INA's management rights to the Hungarian MOL. Imagine the value of this property. So today is 2017. 5 million euros who knows where he is. If it's on Mr. Jezic's account, it's only out of interest how much he's earned. Therefore, what Mr. Lovrinovic was saying can change the laws indefinitely, but if they are not implemented and if the property benefit obtained illegally is not taken away they will be old put salt on the tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33849	Representative Angelko Strick called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33850	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Well, in your presentation, you stated that the amendments and additions of the law go for several reasons. One is, of course, in line with the EU acquis and then because of the efficiency of the process itself, and then because of the uniform application and not to list further, which I certainly support. But I think so far if the judicial authorities wanted to do it quickly, effectively. However, if the judicial authorities do all they can to make the divorce proceedings a secret, no changes and additions to the law will help. So here's one particular case back a week from the Varazdin County area. The media called to say that one person was paying an allowance to the pay against the law. Since this is the case where the SDP and the HNS appear overnight in the HZZ, and moves into inspection supervision. The inspection determines that you have paid off the $ 106,268 unlawfully and orders her to return the funds within 30 days. So I'm curious now whether these amendments and additions to the law are going in the direction that they will be sanctioned in the bodies of the judiciary that obstruct the proceedings in this way. This is about the violation of Article 291 of the classical abuse of official office and authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33851	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, all the laws that are written and which have shifts on paper are good, but here's one question in reality about this law, taking away property in case of launch. Where is this warehouse, how much pay and how much cost does the state have, and who is responsible for keeping it? 95% is probably stolen because we have even stuffed wild animals full of money, so how many of our tycoons have been robbed, how far the state's attorney's office has done on this matter, like all the judicial authorities, that they've created their empires, that they don't care at all what laws we're making here, and the criminal laws in the judiciary and the way the judiciary works so far are saying that in the criminal proceedings of workers... an example of auto transport that was obtained on the first degree of demand from their employer in the second degree from Split transfer to Rijeka, and this takes 6,7,8.10.10 years. A man dies and doesn't get charged by the one who took away the worker's rights. It's a worse crime towards a man who's earned his salary than anyone. So it's very important here, and can you explain how much these laws will increase the effectiveness of these damaged people, and I'm mostly interested in whose work is the most important solution, and that's the property origin law, that's the key to all the keys. Without the Law on the Origin of Assets, we see that SDP Mr Jovanovic is talking about the ineffectiveness of the judiciary for many years I have been looking at it in the Parliament and in the government absolutely nothing has moved. That's why I expect you ministers to move these things, the Law on the Origin of Assets and to launch these processes and take away property to all who have robbed the good of Croatia. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33853	Representative Bull, thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33854	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, fellow Minister. I would ask you to say that when we talk about the new Code on Criminal Procedure, all these provisions and things that we apply from the European directives and what the law will improve are good, but our citizens are interested in very simple, plastically to explain to them. We have a FIMI-MEDI case that lasts seven years, nothing has happened yet, HDZ has taken 30 million kunas, has not returned to the budget. Citizens wonder how that is possible for seven years. The mayoral candidate Virovitica is a person who has admitted to taking money for HDZ, so there is also nothing changing, HDZ continues to run for persons suspected of serious crimes, our citizens are interested in whether the new Criminal Procedure Act will allow justice to be done faster, that for seven years FIMI MEDI is not resolved, that someone is not mocking Croatia like Hernadi of MOL for us to issue a warrant, they are playing a criminal application procedure in the Hungarian man as if nothing had happened. Will it be possible for Hernadi to walk through Europe, and we have the verdict that man has given bribes, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Bulj I beg you, the minister should listen that he can answer, means that still Hernadi will be able to walk around Europe through this law, and that's what our people are interested in, so give us the answers. Do not give us forms, directives, we are interested in whether FIMI-MEDIA will be resolved in less than seven years, and will Hernadi continue to walk in the way it walks around Europe?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33855	Representative Gordan Maras, I'd like you to stick to the subject if you'd like to speak. There are three draft laws in a united debate, all these interesting proposals since you've run out of time, you don't have the ability to replicate, all interesting topics you have the possibility of an institute break, use and talk about FIMI-MEDI and about Hernadi and about all of us, and we'll find it very interesting. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Representative Maras, I have no intention of polarizing with you... every question you ask and every question of the parliamentary representative... /The speakers speak at the same time./...every question of the counsel is legitimate, but you Mr. Maras can only talk about what the topic is today... /The speakers speak at the same time./... I give you a warning, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33856	You can say as much as you want the warning, I'll say what people care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33857	Mr. Maras, I'm taking away your word for the reason I warned you once before, and I've told you nicely, and you know there's an issue on the agenda. What you're talking about isn't on the agenda, I let you... /The intruder doesn't understand. Mr. Maras, I let you say what's going on and what's the context, and after that, you kept talking only about what's not the subject, that's when I warned you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33858	I'm asking you not to give me a lecture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33859	I'd like you to sit down so we can keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33860	I'm asking you not to lecture me, that you don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33861	And don't turn this into a circus, so you don't make me have to kick you out of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33862	No, it's not a circus, you're turning it into a circus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33863	Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional one, i.e....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33864	.../Invadica Lovrinović: Mr. President, can I say something briefly?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33865	Representative Lovrinović, you have the opportunity to lift a replica or breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33866	I have no resistance to anything, but I'd like to ask something about what the biometeorological forecast is today we didn't get off to a good start.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33867	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I don't open the debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Living Wall, SNAGA, will be reported in their name by MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33868	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. Today we have a united discussion the way we have. I will refer first to this part of the Amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure and will therefore speak specifically about Articles 43a and 208a. So Article 43a speaks about this, it's a new article, an addition that prior to the examination, the victim needs to be evaluated. So we need to assess the victim. And Article 208a says that the suspects before, that is, when they begin to question him practically from the moment they call him for an informed conversation have the right to an attorney. In this Article 208a, the minister, i.e. the ministry, argues that they are transposing the EU Directive 2013/48, that the lawyer is therefore allowed to take criminal proceedings. But reconnaissances and informed conversations are not part of the criminal proceedings, nor are they part of the criminal proceedings. And that's best known by the fact that those statements that are given in front of criminal proceedings are not actually used as evidence in court. However, before criminal proceedings, this often contributes to the collection of relevant evidence. So the European Directive, I repeat, says that the lawyer must be present during the criminal proceedings, not during the pre-trial proceedings. Which means that this directive has been mistranslated into Croatian legislation and the question is whether it has been deliberately transposed, whether it is not intended to protect so those who commit crimes, whether they are not known by some kind of blood factor, whether they are corruption and organised crime. We know that until now large criminals have been protected and that practically nothing can be ruled against in Croatia, even when they have 300 criminal charges, there can be no law enforcement. Therefore, it is not possible to condemn people who stole not millions of kunas but who stole the entire Croatian state. And now watch out, here's a case I believe you all know, that an alleged prominent citizen, a tycoon, a friend of a politician in 1980 killed a woman at a walking crossing and hurt her daughter more seriously, in 1989 he again killed a woman on the Aleia Bologna in Zagreb, 2009 ran over a family from St. Sunday, and from 1999 to 2011, he committed 31 traffic violations. In 2011, he killed a couple on vacation in Croatia and imagine not only that he was not convicted but he was never even deprived of a traffic licence. Not even a traffic license. And now imagine, in such a state that is already unable to condemn so large fish under allegations in crime that only now they will condemn when the suspect has the right not to respond at all to an informed conversation, where he has the right to come to an informed conversation and not speak anything, completely shut up, will he come armed with 3, 4, armed 3, 4 lawyers, super expensive, the best in Croatia, how will you judge him, any evidence you find? No way. So this alleged transposition of the European directive is not a transposition but an arbitrary interpretation of the ministry which is likely to result in additional protection of the various people we have been reading about for the last two decades of incredible stories from the Croatian judiciary. But someone would say, and well, you might be a little out of line, but I don't think so, because this is the law, Article 43a, look out now, you have an estimate of the victim, so now before the interrogation, you have to evaluate the victim. So instead of assessing a suspect who has the right to remain silent and not say anything, he doesn't even come to participate and now he has to evaluate the victims. And now imagine, it's most often a psychiatric evaluation, psychologically, and now you imagine, let's say I don't know a abused woman or I don't know a beaten man or someone who comes all upset with his condition to report a crime and the state points him to an evaluation. And what condition is he in? What's it going to be, what's it gonna be? And again, further protection of the suspect will be given to him, i.e. his lawyers, an additional argument that he is not really guilty of anything because this victim's assessment will show that she is not mentally unstable. I want to point out that in these amendments to the law, so Article 43a. and 208a. There is an inversion of the position of suspects and victims, and in fact there is additional protection of crime, extra protection as it is called the situation in which we are already corruption, and those small citizens, for example, I don't know whistlers who are very little because they are afraid to testify among other things, there is no whistler law that will testify even less. And he'll complain even less. So who's crazy to say he's going to report a crime when he knows that after that, I don't know what to do with a psychiatric facility? And in our country, it's not only done, it's abused. Here's an example I don't know Mr. Mark Frančisevek who posted on Facebook one status against the police minister and he shut him down for eight months completely healthy in Vrapce. 8 months under diagnosis, paranoid schizophrenia, and paranoid schizophrenia is an incurable disease. So that after that, the five top psychiatrists’ console would say that man is completely healthy. Imagine that? Imagine what kind of abuses we have in Croatia, which is why politics can interpret these assessment laws, what it can do to Croatian citizens. Either you have a case I don't know Ivan Praklin or Ivan Mihaljevic. They're, like, whistles from the courthouse. For 4 years incarcerated in Vrapč, a perfectly healthy man who has found 11 doctors that he is completely healthy, but the hospital director doesn't want to let him out, but he's still pecking him with pills, injections. In fact, he's making him sick, he's making him sick, and he's not sick just because he, therefore, warned about some criminal activity in the system. You have a case, it's a lot of cases like that. You have the case of Ana Maria Brajm police officer highly educated, highly intelligent who worked in the system of analysis at the Zagreb Police Department. You know what she found out among other things by working on the analysis? It's the hardest job in the police department where you're actually doing a wide network of evidence, relationships and organizations. For example, she discovered that the mafia is thinking of extracting money from the EU for the purpose of restoring energy sources. She discovered connections between arms dealers, international ties. She discovered that drug traffickers have very strong ties with lawyers, doctors and key persons in banks and what is most interesting is that these relationships go up to the top of the state. She discovered that state structures issued false documents with fake names. She discovered places where mobsters hold stolen money, or money from smuggling, and most interestingly solved several cases of murders that haven't been solved in years. You know how she ended up? They locked her up in Jankomir and gave her these injections that her hands were paralyzed, that even if she wanted to write a complaint, she simply couldn't take the chemical into her hands for three months, to make her mentally ill afterwards. I'll be happy to introduce you to her if you want to see that the person is completely healthy, retired her. And when she tried to file a criminal charges, they took away her children. This is possible in Croatia, such abuses. And now we have to ask ourselves a good question based on Article 43a. an assessment of the victim prior to questioning whether someone will abuse this law and how it will be interpreted and used especially when a citizen wants to sue, say, a political powermaker, let's say one of you. Here's an article published in the Nationals last week that 1/6 Croatian citizens are prone to mental illnesses. So, 700 thousand citizens are subject to mental illness, and in diagnosis now let me tell you what these are diagnosiss that can be a man mentally ill is, say, shyness. Be careful, shyness is a diagnosis, credit depression, internet addiction. And to whom, if you want out of all 4 million Croatian citizens you can't pin any of these diagnosises, here's shy or on the Internet is too much. For this reason, I believe that this change in criminal proceedings is going to harm citizens, and in favour of those against whom we have already been unable to take any concrete action. Of course, the legislator explained it very nicely. He said no, it's not an assessment to torture the victim, we want to help her, we take care of her. But in combination, I repeat these two laws, you study it a little bit better. When you think about it a little bit, when you look at what kind of cases we have in Croatia today, not to mention all those estimates that have led to the taking of someone's business ability, the loss of property, especially of older people, etc. We must be seriously concerned that this amendment to the law, the proposed amendment of the law, is good. For this reason, I call on the legislator to delete this Article 43a until the second reading, in order to make sure that no further abuses will occur, and that these existing abuses that already exist, the Ministry of Justice will certainly check those cases that I have now mentioned and that, in essence, those people who have been victims of the system allow rehabilitation and normal life in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33869	Thank you. Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33870	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Bunjac, listening to your presentations, I was really surprised. I really don't know if you've read article 43a because it seems to me that you've taken it completely wrong and interpreted it here in the debate. So you're saying that Article 43a actually goes to the victim's harm, I don't really see it that way, and in my opinion, the legislator's intensity is actually the protection of the victim, that there's no re-stimulation of the victim in the process. This is therefore evident from the fact that special attention will be paid in the course of proceedings against victims who could be re-stimulated especially when it comes to victims of children or other victims and in particular when committing certain criminal offences such as crimes in the case of gender-related violence, violence in close relations, sexual violence and the like. So I don't see how you guys figured it out the way you put it. Furthermore, as far as your claim is concerned that the suspects are now eligible because they can already have a lawyer in the course of an informed conversation and thus protect them, I don't think you get it right. So far, what has been learned in the information conversation could not have been taken as evidence later in the proceedings, since these amendments to the law have been introduced precisely so that what is learned in the course of that part of the procedure can be used later on, and the right to have and in an informed conversation, as well as to say to the informal part of the proceedings the rights of the defendant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33871	Representative Bunjac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33872	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jelkovac, you of course claimed that this law was good because it was beautifully written. However, we see from practice that these beautifully written laws are completely misappropriated and abused depending on who they suit. Here's a case about ten days ago, research journalist Miro Matijević was arrested and after he went on a hunger strike, he was taken to psychiatry. Be careful, so the man who strikes the hunger that could possibly be taken to the Internal Department of Prison Hospital, takes him to psychiatry, and this shows you how in Croatia the rights of the people in that prison-prison system are protected. So the intentions may be your own or perhaps even the minister are good, but practice shows that we must think very carefully before adopting such measures. On the other hand, you said the testimony in the investigation would now become evidence in court, but I don't know if you noticed that the suspect during the investigation had the right to remain silent. So what kind of evidence would he be if he kept quiet throughout the investigation? Anyone who comes will be suspected of something will be silent and there will be no evidence. In this way as it has been so far, the fact is that the testimony could not be used in court, but it is also the fact that many material evidence, so if you want many statements later contributed to solving cases and making fair judgments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33873	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Bunjac, more or less, and a colleague of Jelkovac was replicating from what I wanted. I'd just like to add that as far as the victim's status goes, the victim de facto twice goes through all that. First of all, she's a victim of a crime, let's imagine a woman who's been raped, someone who's suffered serious bodily injuries, and by that very act, already the victim. And the second time he's been through the entire criminal trial where he's faced with trials, he's faced with questions from the defenders of the one accused of such a crime. She's going through everything she's been through once more. And there is exactly what the implementation of this directive now offers to make it easier for these people to position themselves, either in a way that determines a different place to listen to such a person, or in a way that the hearing is done by these modern means, by video links, means that there is no direct contact with whoever did it. Now what I'm saying is I'm not talking to you about how the law was written but where I took part in the proceedings as a pronoun for example of a father who was killed by a son and who was really in this procedure he was shaking, he really required one professional help from a person to help him through this procedure and that he could normally follow him and that he could participate normally. Also the woman whose husband was murdered, the one when she saw the killer in the courtroom, she was shaking. These provisions in the law want to help these people to participate as much in a yet acceptable environment as they can in this process and in order to determine the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33875	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33876	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Bosnjakovic. So you claim to have participated in a number of cases, I believe it is, but in Croatia more than 30% of the crimes will never be prosecuted just for reasons that people do not want to testify. So people don't want to testify and under a lot of pressure they're working on for a simple reason because they don't have enough confidence in the system. If it works out, if it's said victim, we're going to do you now and I don't know her after she's already survived the shock by herself for a few hours, I don't know, maybe a few days and weeks of artisan I don't know how you think that's gonna contribute to her testifying. I think this percentage of 30% is actually going to increase even more, and then we're going to have even less crime and crime exposure. There's actually a whole network here that I haven't been able to elaborate during the debate over too little time. Therefore, the legal articles of the bill should also be promoted, especially those concerning victims who have taken over the role of the accused as a prosecutor or self-administered prosecution, so Articles 57 to 59, as well as the new introduction of the definition of victims, damages and suspects who, in some way, suggest that this law will not contribute to a fairer judiciary but will also contribute to an even smaller number of witnesses and an even greater number of statutes and ultimately even less trust in the judiciary that is now at exactly criminally low levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33877	Representative Goran Dodig is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33878	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I meant not to replicate but I simply must not because of your criticism of the Croatian judiciary, you have the right to do so, perhaps I will speak more critically of this law than you but allow myself to enter arbitration when it comes to the profession which I must say on the basis of what I have heard you have no idea. It's an introduction to anarchy, it's an introduction to arbitration without responsibility. I'll only give you an example of where it leads, not mentioning names because medical ethics doesn't allow me to talk about the names you mentioned, and you'd have to make sure that you don't publicly mention the names that people got and the diagnosis that certain people got, that's their tragedy. If there were any mistakes, they could be. But I just want to tell you that mentioning people who are leaders of certain institutions, even though you haven't mentioned the name, is not correct. And how dangerous this irresponsibility can be, I'll only mention to you the case of a lady whose layman's public as you have declared healthy, was under the pressure of the layman's public released from the hospital, in a month, two days that lady was killed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33879	Thank you very much. Replication response, MP Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33880	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Dodig, I understand that you're defending your profession, that's fine with me. But let us citizens say under quotes "patients", we don't have that much trust in your profession. There are a number of cases, and I also mentioned taking away business ability and various others as it is called abuse, we're not convinced that it's as effective as you claim. And this is what you're saying I'm talking about public names, so these names are mentioned 100 times in public. You open the Internet now and sign those names, they're mentioned in countless articles that have been dragging around for years. So now that I can't talk about what it says, I don't know on the front page of some newspaper, I don't know, then what am I supposed to talk about? My right and duty is as an agent who enjoys immunity so precisely, I personally speak without any restrictions. It's supposed to be my role, this is called Parliament. So these few cases I've mentioned are just the tip of the ice santa, there's a whole series of dozens of such cases that I could mention but I think you'd just go too wide then. So these were the only cases that were actually the most exposed in the media. I believe that you've spoken to many doctors, and in the end I've talked to myself, but I've also talked to many victims, many people who have suffered in that system. Maybe if you were to talk, here, call them, they'd be happy to see them, show you their problems, see what's really going on. Because we should not be allowed to become some state of brownish in which health can be declared a mad, mad, healthy, honest criminal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33881	Representative Josip Salapic announces the axis for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33882	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Comrade Bunjac, I usually do not stand, which I am not interested in, do not listen to, and if something has nothing to do with common sense and do not listen to it, but your intention as I understand you, if I understand you, was to point out critically to actions specifically in some cases of courts. And it's your right, and you don't need anyone to think and say what you need to think, and I don't want to say it. But I personally worked in this House in 2009 with various colleagues on the judiciary and legislation committees and preparing Croatia's entry into the EU, in particular taking care of Chapter 23 and this particular law, in the justice and criminal proceedings chapter. You said something today that really has nothing to do with common sense, which is that the Code of Criminal Procedure goes to the victim's harm by estimating the victim. I realized, and believe me, I've been in this area for many years, that this bill is exactly the opposite, which is to increase the victim's right catalog, that the victim has the right to psychological help if the victim is required in the process. That the state is obliged to provide this assistance to the victims and the injured party, and the whole story of the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia is primarily point 1. protection of the victim's rights, point 2. protection of the injured, point 3. protection of the state, and point 4. which is the constitutional right of the suspect to prove his innocence in the proceedings and no one will be found guilty until proven guilty in the ordinary procedure. And your right of opposition counsel was also the president of the opposition party club, so I supported from ruling what was good as a law, which is that this particular area should be looked after for years, because this process is like a living organism. So I can't give you the right to say what doesn't stand, and today you've been talking complete nonsense in your debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33883	Thank you. Representative Bunjac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33884	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Salapic, I don't know, you want to debate in a way that offends a representative, that you go to him personally. You know, in ancient Greece, if a man used a personal attack instead of arguments, he'd already been named a loser in advance. So you're just going to insult me and admit it twice that you're a loser. So what's next for me to explain? And if you don't know what Croatian citizens think of the judiciary, look at the official statistics. 82% of Croatian citizens do not trust the judiciary, 17% do, and 1% trust fully, so you and your participation in some commissions, the judiciary. The Croatian Parliament is day and night covered by e-mails, messages, performances sent by Croatian citizens against the judiciary. And now you're telling me that the Croatian judiciary is fine and you still dare to insult me, watch out for me who's talking about it. That speaks enough about you and your party and your opposition and your participation in power. The citizens had a chance to hear you, so here I let them figure out who's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33885	Mr. Bunjac, since there are three more replicas, I would just like you to distinguish between the legislation and the judiciary in this debate, because then I will have to warn you. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33886	Dear colleagues, President of the Parliament like this. I thought today's subject was the Code of Criminal Procedure, another amendment. But a young colleague I keep listening to you, sitting here, and you always mention the symptoms of something, and you never get to the root. And that's the core of everything. I've worked for 10 years in the judicial police in one functional state. Why is Croatia a dysfunctional state? Why are all the post-Communist countries at the bottom of that... Perception, because you're avoiding the key. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I was hoping for a little more open-minded acting than young advocates, but we're stuck somewhere again. Like this, we started with psychology. Furthermore, why Croatia has half a million pending court proceedings, court proceedings, a country that is the suburbs of London. What are the roots of all this? When you realize that the roots of all this is what has been done in other civilised countries, the post-Communist EU, and it is called decommunisation. If the victim's speech is here, when you mentioned the victims. This way, young sir, you represent each other Croatian, I represent one another, and that's tens of thousands of people who have been taken away from their property, thousands of people live in other people's apartments. 5% of the land is arranged in Croatia. This is the direct consequence of confiscation, nationalisation of millions of agricultural land, etc. etc. The doctrines don't interfere. [[Adversity President: Representative Glasnović?]] I'm going back to this right now. How are we going to solve these problems if we don't solve these key problems in the judiciary? Who's sitting in the judiciary? Most of them. Well done to young colleagues born after '72. The old messed-up communist personnel. You are young sir, we have inherited the doctrine of SFRY legal doctrine and that is the heart of all problems and until this is settled, there is no progress for the Croatian state. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33887	Thank you. The answer to the replica is the representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33888	Thank you very much, Reverend Glasnović. I'm glad you think I'm young. As for these victims you're talking about right now, here's my doctorate on these victims. That was the topic of my doctoral work, among other things, at the time of that state you're now talking about. If you're interested in that book, I'd be happy to show you. And as for the implementation of this law and general legislation, here we are today abolishing the law on the confiscation of property benefits acquired by corruption and I'm asking you is that a good law? Well, here's the question, sir. I don't know the president of the Legislative Committee. Is that a nice law? It is. So what now? Then why are we shutting him down? So why? Because we're not spending it. Here, I'll tell you if you don't want a minister how many people have been convicted by law? You know how much? One, one person. Here in Croatia we have one war profiter. That's the law. And so we pass laws and claim that everything in these laws is very good, and when someone comes forward and gives a critical opinion, then they want to shut up as soon as possible, calls for some legal procedure, wants to be declared ignorant, young, as a populist, I don't know, etc. I think these criticisms are justified. I speak on behalf of the citizens whose opinion I have heard and I believe that these changes in criminal proceedings are not good and that they need to be worked on. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33889	Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33890	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bunjac, I love listening to your debates and there are always parts in them that I absolutely agree with and parts that I absolutely cannot accept. Let's say today you said that it is crucial in Croatia to improve the efficiency of the judiciary and I absolutely agree with that. So, to make me have the right and justice, that the processes from the start of the investigation through the prosecution to the verdict and sanctioning of illegally acquired property are as short as possible, that citizens see that there is justice and justice in Croatia. And I agree with you that there is witness protection, the protection of whistles and the protection of the victim in the first plan because in Croatia the trust in the judiciary is indeed at very low levels, precisely because you said Croatia in your history since the beginning of the independent state was indeed like Orwell's animal farm where everyone is equal in front of the judiciary but some, unfortunately or fortunately, are a little more equal and I agree with everything you said. And every law we pass in the House must aim to make this efficiency more effective and make citizens' confidence in the justice system greater because it is one of the ways to successfully fight criminals. But what I answered, what I had to react to, and what we couldn't send such messages from the Parliament, so you said that by order of politics, people are being placed in madhouses. So we can't talk like that, we can't break politics and politicians anymore, and so can doctors. So the doctor swore he had Hippocratic's oath, so he's not gonna put someone in a nuthouse on a warrant. It's a complete violation of everything he's learned, and that's what Hippocrates' oaths are for. Therefore, I ask you to really be more careful in some topics than you have, say, panicking against vaccination. So you've got a good debate, but when you're a little off what your waist is. You go into one unnecessary extreme. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33891	Thank you. Representative Bunjac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33892	Thank you very much. So you claim that doctors have 100% of your trust and that we have nothing to discuss. I ask you to look at the official statistics of trust in health care, to look at the rows in hospitals, to see how many people have to pay extra costs already pay extra insurance and usually insurance. You have a problem selling organs in Europe, I believe you've heard of it, human organs. It turns a few billion euros a year and now you tell me if it's possible to sell an organ without a doctor's involvement? Can a criminal without a school sell organs? So let's wake up, abuse exists in such an honorable profession as a doctor. I've never said, among other things, that you claim that people are being locked up in asylums, I said they're being locked up in psychiatric institutions. So basically he has a right to suspect, he has a right to question himself. These cases that I have listed to you, and I repeat once again, it is not about dozens of cases, it is not about one thing, that it is about one I would be silent but about many cases and it gives me the right to think that this question should be investigated, that this issue should be very well considered, that in the second reading it should be critically observed, not just the law coming to Parliament, the SDP supports HDZ, the debate united all clearly and almost five minutes. I guess that's how the debate should look if it was your two clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33893	Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33894	Thank you, President of the Parliament. He's a friend of yours. I would only ask the question, will this law be again for small people, and the great will remain as they are for the next 20 years of trial and never finished. In your discussion, you mentioned false documents. We all know that in Croatia a lot of passports have been given to any criminals and certain people under question by their mafia state. Has anyone been responsible for this in Croatia? Who gave it and did anything happen? Nothing of course. I have one question, and for the minister, from my area of citizens of Vinkovci asks me, his house is devastated in the war and after the war, the man is a craftsman who hired 30 to 50 people, the house is devastated in the fourth category, the man's in court for 25 years, asking for compensation from the state, he's practically completely destroyed. I ask you, when and how long will it take this man to get to his own condition and some sort of conviction? The speakers speak at the same time and after 70 years and some things and their property, and our people after 25 years...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33895	Representative Misic, I would ask you to take a break if you want to talk about an individual case that is not related to one of these three topics we discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33896	Okay. Then I'll say one more thing. Last year, I was present where a theft was made, reported in the MUP today, no one launched anything, allegedly given in the DORH, and today nothing is known about it. Here's so much about the judiciary, let's see how fast and efficient we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33897	Representative Bunjac responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33898	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic. Of course there are absurdities in Croatia. Here's how long the victim has to wait to get some satisfaction. I know the same thing, I believe we all know at least two, three cases of victims waiting for 20, 30 years. Here you have the other day of a HEP employee who lost his arm and leg, and after 31 years he didn't get a satisfaction even though they estimated him 30 times for everything he suffered, he didn't get anything. You also have no idea the case of Mr. Maskarin and many others, I know some wounded Croatian defenders who do not exercise any rights because they are being led to be dead, so he must first conduct the procedure that is alive and then exercise some rights. These are all absurdities in our society where victims fail to reach satisfaction, but on the other hand, we see that the defendants are very successful in getting their rights, that the defendants are very successful in pushing their case into oblivion, to preserve the illegal property they have acquired.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33899	Representative Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33900	All right, thank you very much, Mr. President, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33901	Minister Ante Sprlje asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33902	I would like to refer to a few of the comments, opinions and reflections that have been made so far. First of all, I would like to correct one statement that has been made, Mr. Bunjac has stated that the law on the confiscation of property benefit procedure acquired by criminal offences, so that it is abolished, but I want to point out very clearly, all these provisions are transposed into other laws and those applicable there. By making what they are correcting easier to apply in practice. So we need to know. The property benefit obtained by a criminal offence or offence will continue to be taken away and we hope so in a more effective way. This is one of the main purposes of criminal proceedings so that what has been obtained by criminal act or offence is withdrawn. So to send a very clear message that there's no use if you're dealing with crime. Of course, there will always be those who may be able to make it through, but it is to us as a state, as the Ministry of Justice, that we should reduce it to the least possible measure and that I will fight in my term of office. You also mentioned certain individual cases and I, of course, cannot talk about individual cases, nor will I, nor will it be appropriate to mention it very often in the Assembly, since courts are independent in the conduct of their authorities, courts have files, we do not have files here, we do not know what is in these files and it is not always appropriate to comment on certain cases when we do not know exactly what is in them. A colleague and Bosnjakovic, counterpart Salapic and counterpart Dodig have been very well aware that this law goes towards increasing the rights of victims. We have often forgotten over many years why there are Penal Codes, which is why there is a CAP and a series of other laws, which is to prevent, firstly, having fewer victims and damages and then secondly having victims and damages, that they have a dignified, dignified position in the process, dignified tools in the process and that they have, with them relations with as much attention as possible because these people are going through trauma. A colleague Bošnjakovic also mentioned specific cases, which shows very well what is happening in the criminal proceedings. You, if you've been beaten, robbed, raped, if someone's been hurt by a rope family, you need to be treated very carefully, these people are under a lot of stress. Maybe my colleague Dodig knows best. These are things that have a terrible effect on the perception of these people, generally according to the system. Not only for the sake of the system, these people need to be treated carefully, but also for what they will later pass on to their neighbors, families, friends, and their surroundings, relatives. So the victim in these changes comes into focus. She's been out of that focus for a long time. We've been trying to fix something for years. However, at its level, at which we have participated, also in recent years, the EU has come to this system of thinking and relations towards the damaged and the victim and to guide national legislation to put the victim's position in the place where it should be, therefore, in a place where we will pay much more attention to the victim. As for the exceptions mentioned above, cases where there are wives, relatives' ties in courts and the like have already been established during Yugoslavia, a system of removals, i.e. exceptions that exist to date. As far as I know, no case in the Republic of Croatia has been reported in the last 25 years that the judge has acted in a procedure where his wife is a lawyer or something and vice versa. So as far as I know, if anyone knows of such a different case, feel free to remind me. What can be a problem in procedures is the possible existence of friendly or business relationships, familiar relationships, however, there is an exception. Therefore, the law very clearly provides for institutes for such a thing and the parties have the right to point out that and they point out that. So with this law, amending the law on criminal proceedings, there is no need to intervene because it is already envisaged, very clearly, very thoroughly and it applies to each procedure. Sometimes an exemption decision is made, sometimes a decision is made on a delegation of a certain case to another court and therefore the system in this regard seeks to function quite well. It was just a reminder. I don't want you to... [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33903	Thank you. The HSS representative's club reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf, MP Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33904	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have brought together a debate on these three laws and the opinion of the HSS Club is mine that it is necessary to hold one thematic session on the situation in Croatia within the framework of the legislative framework on the state of justice and trust or how to restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia. Because as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I want my country to truly be a state of rule of law, to have legal certainty in it that guarantees effective persecution and sanctioning of all perpetrators of socially illegal acts or more clearly put in place criminal offences. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, as a legislative body, I feel responsible for creating conditions for the rule of law and legal certainty. The necessary conditions are good laws and their effective application. Today we are discussing amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, an important and important law, but I wonder if the legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia considers it that way? I dare say I don't explain it. The current Code of Criminal Procedure now passed in 2008, and it came into force on 1 September 2011. So he's partially in effect. This law that came into effect just over 5 years ago has been amended six times and today we are discussing the seventh change. The first change was already in 2009, the second one in 2011. Two changes before he came into effect as a whole. In 2012, even two amendments. Of which one is very extensive and new amendments in 2013 and 2014. With this number of changes, I wonder if this law could have lived in practice. The answer isn't. If he hasn't come to life, that means we can't even assess whether he's good or not. Unfortunately, the practice of hastily adopted numerous amendments and the addition of the law is not created now, it has a multi-annual tradition, and has led not to the rule of law, but to the rule of legal uncertainty. Fellow legal uncertainty is the chief braker of the development of a society. Will there be economic activity, investment in a legally insecure system? He won't. Are we aware that the laws we make are implemented, not by some individual, and what is happening to us? It happens that the same law applies to judges of the same court in different ways, and the judges of different courts that we do not speak. Let us try to imagine what it would look like, for example, for the city of Zagreb, to change the rules of driving, i.e. traffic at least once a year. There'd be chaos. Here's exactly the kind of chaos that exists in one branch of government, and that's the power of destiny. Not the only one, but one of the most significant reasons is just hyper production, change and addition of various laws. It is my opinion that the task of legislative authority, and that is not us to pass as many laws as possible. It is our job to pass as best laws as possible on the basis of which established practice will be created, and therefore legal certainty. One systematic approach to law-making will not happen to us cases of Maskarin and many others may be unknown. But tragic ones that change the fate of individuals. I know that there will be an attempt to find an explanation, and it is already being repeated as a parrot we must comply with our laws with EU directives and laws. Let us take a look at the reasons for the proposal of this law from which years the directives date? There was plenty of time for systematic work. Every intervention in one law requires interventions in other laws, because none of them exist for themselves, but only one link in a chain called Croatian legislation. Like any MP and I know that the bill's proposals are generally not us, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and perhaps it's finally time to say a stop to such work by the Government. Otherwise, we are co-responsibly responsible for a chaotic situation that is increasingly revealing its misery and misery. If we ask for a report on the number of cases received, both in criminal cases and in civil courts, we will face a decline in numbers from year to year. We are naive if we attribute system ineffectiveness and protection and the realisation of rights or minor tendencies to crime, i.e. certain criminal acts such as bribery and corruption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a reduced number is an indicator of mistrust in the effectiveness of the judicial authority, mistrust in the rule of law. He is increasingly resorting to various forms of self-help. In the criminal sphere, ineffectiveness of the law enforcement and sanctioning authorities is encouraging us to commit a socially inadmissible act ourselves. In time, such behavior is no longer considered criminal behavior, this becomes common or even worse than vice turns to virtue. The changes ahead give us a new definition of the victim. We have direct and indirect victims of a crime. And Mascarin is a direct victim with all the rights that come out of the law. That his law protected the realisation of his rights as a victim, I don't think it's necessary to elaborate. The victim was also a basketball player exposed to sexual violence, and the competent judge, instead of protecting her rights, retrained rape into handling. The definition of damages includes both the victim and the legal person to whom the damage is to whom the offence has been committed. So, the damages are all those numerous former social enterprises that have disappeared through criminal privatisation in bankruptcy, workers have ended up in the streets, and their acquirers have become prominent citizens of ours because of their financial power. These are all those capital companies that have ended up in the archives of court registers by misusing the position of their founders and members of the administration and various financial engineering, and the perpetrators are even richer in establishing new capital societies in which they continue with the methods of sucking and obtaining their own wealth. How many such perpetrators have been sanctioned? Which of them returned illegally obtained property benefits. The applicant also acknowledges the ineffectiveness of confiscation of the property benefit by seeking justification in the ineffectiveness of the so-called so-called. A jump chase. The expectations of the jump chase were high. Out of all the great expectations and singing praises about the effectiveness of jumping persecution, we have a legally condemned former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who has been punished for investing 500 thousand kunas in the rural playground and the former Minister of Agriculture who has replaced his prison days with humanitarian work. In many cases, isn't the Republic of Croatia the damage right now? And not only through the INA MOL case, was this dear damage to us, our Republic of Croatia has ever been compensated with anything? It's not. It's not possible not to wonder what all the well-prescribed rights are when we haven't guaranteed their realization to the injured and the victim. Further amendments to the law allow the victim to take over the prosecution when the state's attorney gives up on him. What is the meaning of this provision? The evildoers would question the ability and effectiveness and responsibility of the State's Attorney's Office. If the attorney's office gave up prosecution, it had to have solid evidence that it wasn't a criminal offence. If there is no criminal offence, there are no sanctions, if there are no sanctions for the taking of persecution and unnecessary burdens of courts that will have to carry out proceedings that will not and cannot end sanctioning. I hope this dilemma of mine is not going to try to remove the already well-known, but we have to agree with EU directives, if that's how it associates me with our people, sees a frog bitching, raises her leg, too. Developed, advanced and legally stable EU members as we wish it to be, and the Republic of Croatia will not only bring us closer to the mere copying of the directive, it is merely a form. Croatian citizens are interested in content, legal security and rule of law. The partial changes keep us running out of shape, and the content remains further and further. And we expect that, in further discussions and discussions on this law, we will go to the creation of such a framework that will be implemented in practice, which will be conducted by the judiciary and to protect every injured person and every victim, which is also the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33905	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33906	Your Honor. My colleague, you're absolutely right when you talk about the rule of law because I come from Slavonia where justice is like a notion of fatigue. I will go out with arguments every time and read why the war crimes of Vojislav Stanimirovic and his wife, Beauty, are being covered up. Osijek's County State Attorney's Office recently rejected criminal charges against journalist Karolina Vidovic Kristo and historian Josip Jurcevic against SDSS President Vojislv Stanimirovic for war crimes against wartime wounded and patients, and the civilian population, citing that he was not confirmed that Stanimirovic committed a crime charged with the report. The question arises why all eyewitness testimony about Dr Vojislav Stanimirovic is worthless, for example, by Slavica Popovic, wife of Croatian defender Marijan Popovic, who has been hiding him for several days. According to her statement, Dr Vojislav Stanimirovic came into the house and literally told Slavice where Marian is, we've been looking for him for three days, he's a prisoner of war, and I have to hand him over and I'll send for him. Afterward, three armed police officers came into the house and took her husband into her presence. Then we found out that Marian was murdered. It is full of Slavonia of these examples, all Slavonian villages are full of criminals walking dressed as Croatian police officers. In the Croatian judiciary in Vukovar, we have those who tried our Croats at the time of their provinces at the time of the most severe persecution and the killing of our Croats. So I wonder from this place the rule of law of our Slavonia where it stood, when it would run? If that doesn't work out, you'll see things like this. I came into possession of a book that was sent to my post office, "The Justice and Police Mafia", see what happens in Croatia with our judiciary. The Justice and Police Mafia, let's think about all this stuff I've been saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33907	Reply to the replica, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33908	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Culey, justice and law are like a spider's web, it is caught by tiny flies, and the great bumblebees pass by. That's why I was just saying in my debate that we should think about this legislative framework because the opinion of most citizens in the Republic of Croatia, especially entrepreneurs, is that we are an exaggerated state, that we change laws too often, and that in this way we create legal uncertainty, especially in those criminal acts, that it is embarrassing that some are never convicted, that some are convicted and that judgments fall in the Constitutional Court. And I rightly said that on behalf of the club, we should all look together for one thematic debate about how much law we have here, how much law is being implemented, who implements it, who doesn't see it, and what measures we can improve trust in that system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33909	Representative Branko Hrg is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vlaovic, if you had spoken in an individual debate, I certainly wouldn't have answered your line because everything you said actually stands. But at the beginning of your debate on behalf of the club, you were talking about legal certainty, the rule of law, you were talking about taking care of being brought here for citizens of good, useful laws. And I'd add here that it's very important who makes the laws. And I came to you with a replica just because I consider your debate on behalf of the club a demagogue debate. So if we're looking at one mirror, one picture of the people who make the laws, then it really sounds demagogue to all of what you've been saying on behalf of the club where of the three advocates, two of them have the power of judgment. Demagogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33911	Reply to the replica, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33912	Thank you very much. My colleague, thank you for your replica. This is just talking about HSS that what we should all be equal in front of the law in Croatia and our people if they had any violations they were responsible for and are dealing with these consequences. But I was talking about those from your club and your partners who haven't been convicted yet, and all the citizens in Croatia know that the money from Croatia is gone. Five million euros were mentioned here, other cases were mentioned, I individually would not call anyone a job of the judiciary and the judiciary. But I think our debate went that way to point out that the problem is that the judiciary isn't doing the same in all cases, that some who have political protection are more protected than we are from the HSS. And that is why, on behalf of all citizens who feel hurt because the laws are not implemented or because they are not implemented in all courts equally in the same cases, I have discussed this. And I hope that this law and some others will help not to, and I hope you understand that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33913	A representative of Tomislav Sauch called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with you in this section that you said you were talking about the legislative relationship under this law. So this is one of the most important laws that even exists. One law, meaning they define the rules under which a person in the process will thus be limited to his rights if a person is shown to have committed a crime. We are here in this assembly now according to my estimate around 20 and not in the afternoon, so before lunch we are, usually the assembly is at least in this part of the day full, talking about amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure and we are all full of the mouths of the effectiveness of the judiciary, fighting corruption, but here we are today empty hall, empty hall. I am extremely pleased to see that the minister has also been involved in the debate because I think that one in my opinion is such a bad practice, and especially when it comes to discussing such laws that we are actually discussing each other and replicating each other without the promoter taking the floor, I think it is a good thing that this very important law to love, I would like to personally report to the minister more often and to speak as a proposing what it is. I think this law has suffered too many changes and additions. I think it's definitely matured time to review this concept and maybe go into a little more comprehensive change that would result in a whole new law because with some things in these amendments and additions I agree, with some not, I'll talk about it later when I'm going to talk about it in my individual debate. But I think this kind of partial supplementation of the 8th or that, in turn, the 9th order leads to confusion, legal uncertainty and generally puts the defendant in a more unfavourable position if you want the defendant and the defendant is not necessarily the person who committed the crime. Yes, thank you very much. [[Employee: Representative of the Saucha.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33915	Reply to the replica, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33916	Comrade Sauch, I fully agree with you that this is too important a law for so few people to be... our colleagues in the assembly and that a broader debate on this and in other laws would be necessary and implemented, that's what I said to bring as high quality and enforceable laws as possible. It's a good thing the minister's getting involved and explaining himself, which is why he's here. But I said that the opinion from the field is that we change laws too often, here's the seventh amendment to this same law, that it's the impression that laws are written in the ministry or in some offices without considering the impact of the legal law on the ground, that not all stakeholders are consulted in the process and that we have inconclusive law. In addition, we also have a problem with courts, unequal legal practice, and then normally to cause legal uncertainty and mistrust of citizens in the judicial system and in the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia. And we can only change this kind of debate on good faith and I think that all of this and my debate went in the right direction to pass a quality law, not to politicize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33917	The club of representatives of the Independent Lists, also reported for participation in the debate. Representative Marko Vučetic will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33918	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the law, the amendments to the law on criminal proceedings that we heard were repeatedly referred to, came to us by surviving six amendments and now comes in the 7th. I've already made this information almost put us in a position to wonder if we're at the border of legislative activity or some kind of alchemical activity. If the law were to undergo another amendment, the alchem part would seem to be almost out of line. I make this clear as only one ironic form, as an ironic figure, and I look back at the course of the debates so far, but that figure also serves me to reconcile a really relatively high number of amendments and additions to this law and that's on the one hand. And on the other hand, in my opinion, but also by some collective thought of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and worthy, quality and really necessary amendments to this Code of Criminal Procedure that came before us in one of those triad forms. The amendments have been made because it was prompted by EU directives, which we must never view as an insult to our judicial or legislative system but exclusively as the improvement of our judicial and legislative life. This triadity, on the other hand, is made possible and encouraged by the practice of law enforcement and by trial but also by the decisions of the Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights. In this part of my work, I would refer to this very EU directive because we are coming to the adoption of a new standard and a standard that protects rights and will support victims. All our efforts and our legislation should be directed towards the victim, towards sanctioning violence, and so that the victim, after the rehabilitation of this procedure, and after the compassionate ear of these institutions and the legislation prevails and his trauma to which he has set himself. Furthermore, these directives lead us to the need to re-defined and define the concept of suspects. The suspect is therefore the person for whom there is reasonable doubt or a high level of certainty that he has committed some crime. Now the actions of the police, the state's attorney's office should go in this direction in order to reach or reach the scope of the suspect's actions, but also to take those procedures that will lead to the confirmation or removal of the suspicion. Furthermore, the EU directive also needs to define ways to address the freezing and confiscation of the property benefit that has been achieved by criminal acts or offences in the laws so far. As regards the Criminal Procedure Act, it is exclusively a matter of confiscation of the property benefit which has been committed by criminal act. And in this fourth part, it is about the fact that in one special catalogue of special criminal activities, the activities of the proceedings are included in our relationship, the legislative relationship with those who counterfeit the bills, primarily the euro, and also other currencies. Therefore, all those who have, are in possession of means of counterfeiting or distributeing or making use of such funds. This first part is extremely important to us, and in the debates we kind of focused on it, which is the victim and the damage. The victim is a person who has suffered some kind of crime and suffers the consequences of criminal or pathological activity. In these discussions, we have also spread this pathology to social pathology, so we have partly spread it to illicit psycho pathology, so that we have forgotten the world we belong to, and that this should be a world that respects other people's privacy, that we do not express and that we do not deintimize some reality and that we are now discussing concrete cases and concrete names.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33919	Representative Vučetic, I'm just apologizing for a brief break. Dear MPs and MPs, it is my pleasure to welcome the nineteenth generation of the War School of Ban Josip Jelačić led by General Colonel Slavko Baric, commander of the Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tuđman who are staying for a study visit to the Croatian Parliament. ... Representative Vučetic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33920	The victim is a person who has suffered violence, but is a victim of a person who must not now remain conscious of the extension of her life and the trauma she has experienced. And with this law, we manage to distinguish the victim from the damage. Therefore, it is a procedural institute that includes both a legal person and a natural person, and for her it is significant that she has decided to participate actively in the process from the very process of collecting evidence to participation in the debate and possibly in the fact that she herself takes action if she comes, the activities of criminal persecution or the activities of launching the property damage compensation procedure that the victim suffered. It's different from the victim, so it's like the one that can be straight or that can be indirect. We've heard all about it, so I wouldn't bother the public with these repetitions of what the victim should be, as defined in this law. However, what is really significant, which is that the victim is trying to access as much as possible in an individual way, that this catalogue of crimes and ways, the methodology of how we treat the victim takes care of the individuality of the victim and it is a valuable contribution not only to our legislation, but I would dare say almost to the civilization that we belong to. Because so far, if we look at things from one of these cultural, anthropological and psychological levels, we could observe this sacrificial mechanism at the level of two ratios. On the one hand, we have a minority called the pacifist or the pacifist minority. They're the ones who unviolently respond to everything. They've identified themselves so much with this nonviolent act, that everything that happens to them fits non-violence. And it is clear that they are not covered by this bill. On the other hand, we have people who have identified themselves so much with some pathology, and we call them criminals or we can call them criminals. They have achieved their whole life's identity between this pathology and the way they operate. And they are within the reach of this law and the amendment of this Code of Criminal Procedure, and consequently in an indirect sense, that is, in a certain sense, and with these two laws that we are also discussing in this united debate. So what matters is that we try to establish one relationship that's what literature often finds as an example of complete certainty. We should tie the thought of a crime or the thought that someone would commit a crime to immediately attach the thought to punishment or sanctions. If we establish this couple and this relationship between the possibility of someone committing a crime and the certainty that they will be sanctioned for this crime without exception, without exception to political power in relation to the property that a person has, then we have approached the ideal of a world that will not seemingly cry over the victims, and at the same time lead to a marginalization of the victim and depersonalization of the victim. These two laws, therefore, on the termination of the property benefit law, I will not speak of the USKOK Act because it is quite clear that all these rights and procedures on the confiscation of property benefit, which have so far been distributed in these laws and have not been implemented in an appropriate manner now are guaranteed by the Criminal Procedure Act. And in the end, I can only say that the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will support this law by all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33921	Representative Josip Salapic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33922	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vučetic. You gave one philosophical breadth of the Criminal Procedure Act which is not bad because you stick to the subject at least unlike other colleagues today, this morning here. What I would like to discuss with you is that frequent amendments and amendments to the laws are not good and that I agree with you, but in this area the legislator cannot predict all the problems because the problems arise during the proceedings. This is one of those laws that I can freely say is a living organism because it changes as well as process and procedure because many crimes have also experienced various changes in the past as it has happened today, thanks to the development of technology, you know very well. The amendments and additions to the laws must also be made because it is about the implementation of the common acquis or EU directive in our legislation, and therefore, more frequently, the amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. And what's most important and what's just been said about this this morning, this law should primarily guarantee the right of the damages and victims to the state to protect their interests, and to those who are suspected as perpetrators of possible crimes that in a democratic process can be defended in accordance with all the mechanisms that the law allows. And what is an even bigger problem, which is beyond our possibilities here in the Croatian Parliament, is that when the law comes into practice with certain courts and judges, it does not apply as the legislator predicted, and therefore we have an unequal legal practice, and this is a very sensitive area, so we have to deal with and deal with these problems. And with you, I agree, I support this law and I believe that we will come to the possibility that in some procedural actions we will achieve what today's committing crimes is quite different than it used to be. So we have more problems to talk about, in such a polite way. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33923	Thank you. Representative Marko Vučetic came forward for a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33924	My colleague, I agree with you that these frequent changes and additions should not be weakness, and moreover life is somehow defined as moving or even moving from itself. It would be a good idea to run this law for ourselves, but we have real life under this vision if we have living laws, if we have living courts and those who will enforce these laws and if we have more dead criminals and crime. We shouldn't always be there, two are alive, one is dead. It seems to me that somehow the best thing about this ratio is that if we have living laws, living courts or enforcement, and that crime is becoming more and more lonely and inactive. I don't think we've come to this yet, and I welcome these frequent amendments and additions to this law because we're getting closer somehow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33925	A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33926	Your Honor. My colleague Vučetić, I was not here while they had colleagues from the HSS debate, you have now had a philosophical debate, so I would ask you to comment on the fact that from a philosophical and sociological aspect of the fact that parties running against a number of criminal proceedings, which are being praised with a hundred criminal charges, are now talking about the return of illegally acquired property, are talking about the fight against corruption and crime. So it looks like a thief is yelling at that thief's hand. And I would like colleagues from the HSS to be shown during this thematic debate about the symbol of the Croatian judiciary to Mr Stipe Gabric Jambi, which is currently being prosecuted by two court proceedings. One of them is related to the estrangement of money from the city budget of Metkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33927	I'd like you to stick to the subject. I'd like to ask representative Vučetić if he will respond to the replica to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33928	Fortunately, my colleague Gromja requested a philosophical analysis, so I'll stick to the subject. So I'm not going to mention Gabric Jamba or HSS, but I'd be happy to talk about it at least from this philosophical level that man is subject to the sacrificial mechanism and that this sacrificial mechanism we find everywhere. If you have philosophical eyes, I noticed this sacrificial mechanism, for example, when I came to Zagreb, is this large number of fountains that you have is nothing but an aesthetic sacrifice. It's someone, someone sacrificed the city and to make that city acceptable, it has to make it beautiful and it's the aestheticization of the victim. On the other hand, those who boast that they have a hundred, 200 or 300 criminal charges, and that they are not acted on by them, have esthetised their own impotence. But we who are in parliament must not esthetise legislation. We need legislation alive. Our legislation must not be philosophical or aesthetic. Legislatively, what happens here should be avoided from every kind of aestheticization and thereafter followed by the victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33929	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vučetic, all you've said is good, so all that's changed is good, but people don't believe in the judiciary so far in any change because the fact that we have equal means and less equal legal. So the legal system, if all the laws we're making here aren't applicable then it's a waste of time, it's a key problem. Because today when we look at the Croatian state, really here, and a colleague of Grmoya has now mentioned certain persons, they are the Pharaohs, their influence has no judiciary at all, so in the blue, so is your Zadar. Well, they were afraid of tunnels for, I don't know, a square could make two tunnels, just for the color square, so a lot of people got rich on crime, they got it, and of course people don't trust and change that's good, they're positive about bail. Why would someone have the right to have money for bail and someone who doesn't? So the problem is that we have to make Croatia at least as much justice as I do and you can explain it, it's one law that will be universal to everyone, the Law on the Origin of Assets. Because we can't say now is a line, what's been robbed, it's been robbed, and now we're gonna respect the Constitution, private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33931	Replication response by MP Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33932	Here is also with this replica of colleagues, Bulja, we have proven that our laws are a living organism and that these three laws we are now discussing are to provoke a debate about the next law but since we are not discussing it now, then I cannot refer to that property origin law either. But to this part of which you said there are Pharaohs in Croatia, surely there are, but all the Pharaohs end up in some kind of tombs, even if they were pyramids. And the laws, I see the laws as a building element from which we will build such Pharaohs their natural environment, and that is exactly the prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33933	The SDP advocates' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative of Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33934	Dear Mr. President, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm here, of course, in a position to speak as a representative of the opposition party club, but I'm going to commend the law, and I think it's great, and I'm going to invite you to support it with one fence that I'm going to talk about. I say, I'm here and I need to set it up because the law in this text is 99% presented to the public in 2015, so we held a public debate somewhere in June of 2015, the elections came and he's here now. It is normal and cannot be different because it follows European directives in a good part and imposes the need for certain amendments and these changes are good. I'm not going to talk about them much, I'm going to talk about three or four things that I think we should point out. We should be aware of what we are voting on and what this law will bring. So first, when we speak and are often spoken with, and we can all be dissatisfied and for a reason dissatisfied that we don't actually have major procedures that have ended. And we don't. In 2008, there was some kind of fire-fighting solution, until then we had a judicial investigation, we said, 'Come on, that's not good, not us, I wasn't at all in a position to talk at all, but the people who talked about it, I'm talking about us as a society we said. And we said we're going to the state's attorney's investigation, it'll be faster and more efficient. Yeah, we lifted some guarantees and the rights of the defendant, today 2017, when I look back, we get nothing. We may have accelerated one phase of the procedure, the other obviously slowed down and still large cases do not have a court solution. And it happens in Croatia and it's bad. And that's a bad message. The bigger the case, the less certainty they'll get a court ruling. And that's bad. And later you had the Constitutional Court's decision that actually paved the whole system in a certain way, trying to artificially restore some rights, we, we had to adapt to them. But what do I mean? That Croatia at one point, so in 2008 it started in one direction a party investigation which is good and works in a large part of the country but then stopped and the bad elements of what we were against but did not introduce enough good elements of this new one. And now we still have one mixture that doesn't produce results. And whatever we're saying with the results, we can't be satisfied. Neither the results of criminal proceedings nor the results of the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. And that's bad. And that's what's waiting for us. And I would like to appeal to my colleagues from the ministry and to us here to be just one phase and that after this, it's going to be a whole new CAP. We're doing this here because of the adoption of the directive, it's okay, we need to do this, but this country needs a new CAP, as well as a modified law, we can talk about the origin of the property, but certainly by taking away property benefit. These provisions that are here are better than the existing ones but they are not to the end and will not give a good result to the end. A good CAP should prepare 2, 3 years, he should have some vacacio legion for a year two and then we can say that we have made that important step. So we're headed in the right direction. Now we need to see what's wrong, and the bad is enough. He can also see what's good and let's get ready for the next step, and in my opinion it's a really party investigation brought to an end. I think we're mature and we should go that way. As for the concrete law, one of the important things that will be passed, there has been a lot of talk here about the position of victims and witnesses, so I'm not going to talk about it, but there is one thing that could lead to the acceleration of the process and something that will be seen in practice, and this is the arrangement that will be the first, therefore, to which the first examinations of the suspects are already being conducted, and these are what are now called informed conversations that cannot be used otherwise in the process today. In the future defendant will be familiar with the rights, able to hire a lawyer. It will be recorded, and most importantly, it will be evidence. Why does it matter? Because this will not have to be done at a later stage of the procedure. So we'll figure it out at this stage, it'll fix itself. Someone here was saying I could keep my mouth shut. Well, of course I can keep my mouth shut, the defendant's right to remain silent, but he can do it now and that's his right. But what silence is saying, so what's going to be fixed, will be fixed with the presence, or the ability to hire a lawyer, and will be used as evidence. And that's one modern approach that most European countries have and I'm sure we've missed so far. And here I'm going to put the criticism that I actually have on the law and which is why if it doesn't change, we're going to be restrained around it, and that's what the legions are about. So when we were preparing that provision before 2015 we spoke with the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior told us it took them a year to prepare for it. They must train police officers to conduct an interrogation that will prove it. Look out, it's a very dangerous shop. Because if something bad is done, it's dragged all the way through the process. So, the cops who'll be doing it haven't done it yet. They have to get dressed. You have to buy the recording devices, because every interrogation should be recorded. And then they told us it took them a year. It may take them less now, but I can't accept it to be eight days as scheduled here or by July 1st if we look at the law, if it's adopted somewhere in May, June, it'll be less than a month. It's too short-handed. So that's where I'd like to appeal to see how much more time it takes. We'd better go later. It's a terrible news flash. I remind you here of what we call the fruit of a poisonous fruit. So, if something goes wrong at that point and some sort of evidence store goes wrong, then it's going to jeopardize the whole process in a year, two, three, it can all be a trap. So I'm asking you to consider how much it takes for the M.O.P. to prepare his criminals for questioning. I'm saying, I'm telling you what data we had at the time, to put it in place, and to prolong the entry into force for it. It's important, it's very important because it's the biggest newspaper this law has ever passed. You will now have the police, the suspect, immediately recording and that is evidence. And this test must be conducted extremely well. That's why you see that's my suggestion, I say, and that's my biggest objection to the law. Second High Court of Penitentiary. My point is that it's unnecessary and we can talk about it whether or not it's necessary, but I'm against it and we're opposed to a deadline cut. We have so far had him enter into force 1.1.2020. This is where the deadline is moved to 1.1.2018. We until the Law on Courts is passed where this High Criminal Court will be positioned in the first place, where his structure will be arranged, what his relationship to the County Courts will be, to the Supreme Court. Remember, at this point, we have one of the greatest Supreme Courts in Europe. What does it mean if we now take their jurisdiction over what these people are going to do? So let's go into something I don't think will be enough these six months to keep it going. That deadline's too short, that's one. And secondly, if we are to appeal, if we are to talk about legal certainty, about equating judicial practice, then we are to find a higher level of priority than the High Court of Civil Court that will even up civil proceedings, not criminal cases simply because these are more and the practice is more different. So I'd be waiting with the High Court of Penitentiary. The question is also the status of these people where they will be positioned in relation to the county judges, the Supreme Judge. That may be one technical question, but a question that can bring a big mess into the system. If these announcements were implemented that you had in the programme of joining administrative and criminal courts with the Municipal Court, it would mean that at least in part this court would be responsible for them. For the first time in Croatian history, we would have a concentration of all appeal procedures in one place. It can be very dangerous. So I invite you to think about it and see if this is going to happen, and certainly this deadline 1.1.2018 is completely unrealistic. I'm saying until the Court Act is passed, it doesn't even have to be discussed. The deadlines for the investigation. I have to say, I don't like this rock-relieving solution, so to speak. I think we need to go towards the deadlines at all stages of the criminal proceedings being stricter, not less strict. We went to a lot of trouble with the changes in 2013 to introduce deadlines in the investigation. They relax now, that's not good. The State's Attorney's Office, when it works, must have deadlines and these deadlines should be served, not relaxed. And that's what I'm asking you to be, there's going to be a public debate or it's ongoing, but that's what we need to talk about. The deadlines of the investigation should be as strict as possible and therefore there should be sanctions, and the deadlines of the investigation are determined by us here. Croatia doesn't need to be investigated long and we don't even know who, what, and how these deadlines can be extended indefinitely. The guarantee, we were already talking about it here and it was also my personal proposal as a representative a year ago, unfortunately rejected then. But he's welcome now and here to remove the guarantee and remain only in exceptional cases, means to attempt escape. However, the consequence is this decision and I would say the disastrous decisions of the Constitutional Court, one of the worst decisions made by the Constitutional Court, where it is actually said that the guarantee does not make sense. Because if you do it again, if you give the guarantee that you will not influence the witnesses, and you influence the witnesses, there is a criminal case against you. The Constitutional Court said it was not a reason to withdraw guarantees. So the guarantee team, by that Constitutional Court decision, became completely pointless. It's going to this radical step and I support it, lifting the guarantees, but it has to be linked to the court's obligation that an investigative prison doesn't judge lightly. There are numerous European Court of Human Rights rulings where, just as a state, we are losing what is being decided on on a flat-rate basis. It's a waste of freedom. If you say that someone will influence a witness, then you must specify exactly why this witness can and can be affected. You can't just say, ha because of his position he can influence, it's not enough. Unfortunately, in practice such solutions are common and this is bad. So we're going with this restrictive, there's no guarantee, but then let's impose our obligations, let's also law-abid the arguments of a link that has to be given, so when someone goes to the investigative prison to know who and how it can affect. It's important for the protection of all of us, for the protection of human rights here. And at the same time, we're going to give to the State's Attorney's office, the police, everyone the possibility of persecution and actually detention, let's say so because it's simpler for those who need to be in custody. So this isn't just going by itself, this has to follow the tightening of the rules on the prison investigation, if we're taking guarantees, and I am. The cost of the procedure, I think the solution is bad. Again, what, three years ago, we introduced a solution that the convict always pays the cost of the procedure and I think it's fair. I don't see why any of us taxpayers would pay the cost of the procedure for someone who committed the crime. That's not good, that's a bad message. In practice, you know how it goes, he comes to court, says what you have on property, nothing, nothing you live on, I don't make money. Then get rid of the cost of the procedure, go out to Mercedes and drive him home. It's bad, and we're aware of it every day, bad messages are being sent. And I would urge here again to review those provisions because the defendant must bear the expense of the proceedings if he is convicted of course. Is that going to be a charge? Of course you can't charge from someone who doesn't have one, that's another. But as a message to us as a society why liberate him from the cost. So what's that reason to get rid of him? I think it's a bad solution and it's worth considering. So, all in all, as a club, we support an absolute bill with this fence at deadlines because I am afraid if we don't extend the vacacio legion that good provisions in practice can't be implemented and that what happens to us too often is that our law is good, but it's not implemented. And that's why he would appeal to the motionary to consider, to see how much MUP needs to be prepared, when we start with a police interrogation to make it correct that there are technical recording devices and that it's done well. It's impossible, I repeat, it's impossible to do this in eight days, it's life logically impossible and it's something to do. Here's what's going on. We'll back him up completely, if he doesn't, we'll be held back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33935	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33936	You spoke of the process of this law on everything that is going on, the changes, as a very important law. You know it well, you know the critical points, you know the moments that happen in the police, what the video means, the videos, the audio records, and that's clear. However, at one point you said that even the laws so far had some results and that you needed to get out what was good and what was bad. Yeah, you know how people have, you've been a minister, you've been objecting to the judiciary, the key problem is what the people see, and it's obvious that the judiciary doesn't work, that there's no legal certainty, that it's not equal for everyone. The law can be the best and you've said there are huge advances on bail, on hearings and on those only those deadlines where people within the police should be prepared, but how people will think when those who gave INA to other people's hands are not condemned. We have evidence, they watch on television, when those who robbed, who gave the White Nights, those who gave a lot of things are free and rich citizens, respected citizens, and the man who worked the old man of the Bethlehem Manger has been detained. So legal uncertainty is a key problem. All these laws are good, they should be supported, and otherwise you as a minister are very, very well aware that the key issue of law enforcement is primarily about justice. People at least trust the judiciary and it's a key problem, so they can't last ten years of process for labour rights, ten years at a time. These tycoons are building their empires, towers, and these people can't achieve their basic human right, their right to pay, or any other labour law, that's the basic problem, the impertinence of all laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33937	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33938	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, yes, I agree with you and Croatia has often fallen into this trap to write laws that were once prescribed in relation to the laws of the countries where legal security is at the level that we would like and then we get the result that is as it is and that is so. Why is that? That's your best answer because we go after the form often, that's what I've been saying here at the vacacio legion. If you bring a certain provision, and do not ensure that it can be spent time training, time for the devices it needs, you have actually brought an empty provision. She'll look nice, you'll be able to boast about her somewhere, but that doesn't mean anything to an ordinary citizen. I've always had that problem as a minister. We started with 830 thousand unsolved items in office, we ended up with about 500 grand, so that's 330 grand less that's a huge shift. But when you tell someone, and they say that, but the subject still lasts me 10, 15 years of statistics doesn't mean anything to them. The fact that we don't know how to cut by 50 days average, it's statistically great, and sometimes when you're looking great, it happens now, but it doesn't mean anything to an average citizen. But these are now mechanisms that aren't just dealt with by law. That's also being resolved for us here in the Parliament to talk about it. And when there's a report from the President of the Supreme Court to ask him that because it's a matter of judicial authority. Here we give tools, we give money, and you do not forget that Croatia in Europe is the average judicial separation. So it's incorrect not to stand out enough. That we have the most judges in the EU after Slovenia per capita. So it's incorrect that we don't have people, it's the same with the prosecutor, so we do. And as citizens, we have the right to expect results. That's where we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33939	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33940	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Orsat, you've been a minister as far as I know in the former government, saying that you've speeded up some things and slowed down some things. Everything seems slowed down to me. I'm getting some kind of tip-off and here's an example in Zabok of land re-purposed from construction to agriculture, and it's been sent to the DORH for a couple of years, no one's moving anything. Careful man had a construction turned into a farm. Why? So the rest of us could get into the unit and turn it into a construction unit later, I guess that's what the interest was, so that's why it's... Second, give me an explanation, since I'm from Vukovar-Srijem County why did you reorganize the court, you took from Vinkovac to Vukovar? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did you do with it? You've made a great deal of spending on citizens who live 80% of the citizens of Vinkovac, County, and in that part and citizens are now paying a lot more to go to Vukovar and lawyers and judges. And you have done one great harm to the citizens and So I'm asking you that question on the way. [[Adversity President: Representative Misic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33941	Representative Misic, I would also like to pray if there will be no reply to the replica that exists according to the topic presented today. If you have, I'll repeat it again, you did it during the last line, if you have any questions, any suggestions, use the official premises...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33942	.../Intruder Misic: Well, it's all in the style of this law that has been passed.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33943	...in Parliament, breaks in Parliament, topics when it's being discussed but you can't talk off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33944	.../Intruder Misic: Well, it's not out of the question, it's a full judiciary, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33945	No, it's not a question of three bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33946	.../Intruder Mišić: O.K./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33947	If you have anything to do with three bill proposals, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33948	Here's the Building Land Act. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33949	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33950	Mr. President, I know I'm going to be a little off topic, but I have to answer, I'm called, I think you'll let me do it, very briefly, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33951	I would ask you to refrain here if it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33952	Then I'll just say this. A colleague, anything that could have accelerated. The reorganisation was made and it results in the sense that procedures are faster and cheaper. And that's it. You can look at it anywhere, here on the Ministry's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33953	Thank you. Representative Angelo Strick called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33954	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Col. Milenić, you have devoted one major part of your debate to the deadlines that should be as short as possible, I absolutely agree with that because in this way if the deadlines are short and effective and the cases of the whole case and the judiciary will be far better and more effective. I believe that if the objects have several tens of thousands of pages that the whole case is being asked here, whether the whole case wants to benefit and how it ends. If you don't have a chance to say the key to 200, 300 pages in the case, you won't be able to count to 20 grand. However, here I have one specific case, so on November 24, 2015, in the County Assembly of the Varazdin County, the Council Club asked a single question to the State's attorney and regarding the situations that have been raised, paid by one city institution, it is according to the paper on damages of 2.3 million kuna to the contractor. So even the contractor wasn't sending these situations, he was sending them under a contractor, a subcontractor. So was the two-year deadline enough for the official bodies to react, reject the application and the whole case or file a certain application and initiate the whole procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33955	Mr. Milenić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33956	So this is where I agree with you, and that's why deadlines are important. And I think the state must have certain deadlines whenever it treats any of us. If he can't do it within the time limit, he can sit down and shut up. In anything. And that's something that we have to create the preconditions that she can do. But why should something apply to you or to me as a deadline that binds us and does not apply to the state? That's not how it is in the countries we look at and what we want to be. It's very difficult to bring to us, so we understand each other. And it's supposed to be a process. And that's why I'm against the fact that the deadlines in this law are relaxing because we've been putting in a hard time some deadlines. And I think we need to move forward a little bit, not relax them. Because that's the way we want to go. We will, at least that's how I realized, we want the existence of a deadline and we want everyone to stick to it. And if he doesn't stick to it, there are sanctions. And a specific case, here when he's your state's attorney and ask him, I really can't answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33957	A representative of Tomislav Sauch called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Milenić, I agree with you when it comes to deadlines, I think we have lost a little focus on the fact that this law on the one hand must actually reconcile two interests. On the one hand, the perpetrators of criminal acts are convicted and on the other hand to protect that no one is convicted of a crime he did not commit, so the protection of human rights. Basic, most fundamental human rights. And that balance must always exist somewhere. Unfortunately, this whole law, I think it's quite an awkward situation for me to discuss this at this point because somehow I may be among you both here and the closest to this matter, but I can see from my personal experience that unfortunately this law is exceedingly weighty, meaning extremely significant in favour of the body's persecution at the expense of the defendant. And what I want to remind you is that the defendant as much as I would like it to be, that it's popular that when he points a finger at someone and says it's a thief, they want me to believe right away that that person is a thief. However, there must be a procedure within which man will be able to prove himself, i.e. under pre-prescripted rules. not prove his innocence, but the state is obliged to prove him guilty. And I'm afraid that all of this has somehow turned upside down and that we've come into a system where the man is guilty until he proves his innocence himself. And what you said about deadlines, look, you can also leave someone in a limbo state, so nothing's going on, an investigation is being conducted, and let a person get so sour for years. Try living with it, it's not easy. That's why I think it's too serious for this to be left undefined and not set deadlines until an investigation can take place at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33959	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33960	Thank you very much. Yeah, maybe he is a little in conflict of interest, I guess he won't report you to the commission. Anyway, it's important, and I'd like to appeal and appeal to the Ministry to consider, not to relax, but to relax the deadlines like this. Let's serve them. If the State's Attorney's office needs more people to do that, let's get them out of here. But let's not go by logic, they don't have people, so we'll relax the deadlines. That's not good. It's not good for legal certainty. You were now speaking perhaps from the defendant's position, I don't mean you personally, but what? From the public position. What does the public want from us as Parliamentarians? He wants us to bring a legal framework in which the criminal proceedings will be swift and in which, when criminal charges are filed and when the investigation begins, it is known when it is due to be completed and that deadlines exist. And if someone hasn't done their job to bring sanctions for it, whoever it is, they're gonna be carrying someone else somewhere else. So let's talk about it, we have two readings, we have time. Let's see where we can tighten the deadlines. That's my appeal. Every time it's a deadline, when he knows it, he's predictable. Well, it better be longer, but it better be known it's final. After that, there's a sanction going on, and that's what's important. It's important for legal certainty, but it's important for the public as well. They're watching us. We will raise our hands for the law and then none of us sitting here will be able to tell anyone that it doesn't matter because some procedure takes a long time. It doesn't matter because you raised your hand for something, you took part in it. And that's why what we can do now let's do at this stage so that we're personally satisfied with what we've done, that it'll be absolute maximums best not, but let's make it better than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33961	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33962	Dear President, speaking of deadlines, I'm only sorry that young Maskarin didn't extend his deadline for at least a month to determine his compensation for what he had been through. When I speak again about witnesses, I cannot help but touch what my colleague Misic said about the reorganisation of the judiciary, especially with us in Vukovar-Srijem County where the Municipal Court moved to Vukovar although it is well known and known that the municipality, the former municipality of Vinkovci, had 82,000 inhabitants at that time, these thirty. So when he's gravitating the whole parish, too... And the other question is how will a Witness from Vrbanja come to the Municipal Court in Vukovar when he has to come here, because he has to, if he has to accidentally take the day off, take 200 kunas if his daily is 200 kuna, then pay the costs, so he comes to court, so his lawyer, so other witnesses, so judges, so the municipal state attorney's office and they should be paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no cost reduction, there's no progress, there's no acceleration of the whole process. And I don't want to be me on board like my colleague Sauch, although my case is a little bit different than he is. 15 witnesses in one case located throughout the former county of Vukovar-Srijem are difficult to reconcile. I've already had immunity returned to me, so I wouldn't have paid my ticket last night for speeding if I had an accident. But here, the reorganisation of justice while you were, it was one political decision that made no good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33963	Replicate reply, MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33964	Mr. President, first purely technical and political if you will, because the organization was created in a way that was voted by the then position and opposition. And when we talked and decided where it was going to be, we talked to our HDZ colleagues at the time, and we all know that we were involved in it the way we talked before because that's the kind of thing that we should try to reach a consensus about. And he existed then. For a criminal trial, do you know how many average man times goes in life to the Criminal Court? 0,2. The average man in the criminal court doesn't go as a witness. Let's ask ourselves, how many times have we been as witnesses or guilty? The average man doesn't go. It's healthy and good for a criminal court to be in as few places as possible. That's how corruption moves, familiarity moves. It's easier to make a decision when you're away from those people you see every day and you have to judge them. It's a trend everywhere in the world. That gives a better and fairer trial and that's a good thing. And the next step should be to have even fewer courts to be tried on. And when someone tells me that it's a difficult approach, I always compare it with hospitals and sick people. So, is it harder for a sick man to get to a hospital or to get to a healthy court? I mean, look at it that way. It's not really a problem. It's here and there for someone, but overall looking at it is not a problem, and it gives good results. That's what everybody's doing around us. If everyone's working, why should we go different? It's not good when you're tried by someone who looks at you every day. It's good to have it somewhere else, so one day you'll be leaving, and then the witness will go away once, and that's it, but the case will be resolved. The problem is when the object lasts long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33965	Thank you. The HDZ representative's club reported for participation in the debate, and representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33966	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, and when we look at the law was passed in 2008, we are now in its seventh amendments and amendments, and indeed very often in these amendments we have already implemented the EU Directives, so we have had one more extensive amendment to this law regarding the Constitutional Court's decision where some 40, 50 articles have been amended. And it's actually justified to ask a question after all these years what's left of that first text of the law? There was definitely one concept of the law, which was already here before and said, we had an extremely ineffective system before this law, which is a judicial investigation and this judicial investigation involving three stages of the case, which means that the police act that moved more or less in front of the investigating judge in the file, so the same evidence was conducted before the judge, and then again in the main debate, and there was indeed quite a time from those first carrying out evidence until the main debate was proved. And then we adopted as one of the important conditions for joining the EU, we passed a law that we all assessed together that would offer more effective tools and mechanisms to process the criminal acts of their perpetrators. And after the law was passed, we had little hope because they had started taking action against officials who had been positioned in certain positions and such actions had previously been almost unimaginable. However, today, when we look at the effectiveness of this law from a time distance, we still have the impression that this struggle has stopped somewhere, that these tools are a little blunt, which we would say further, this fight against crime, it has some weight and that we still need to grind it out. The aim of the Criminal Procedure Act is that it is equally well said here, it was still defined in the Constitution, which is that those who have committed the offences are in a fair legal procedure and that punishment be imposed. However, those provisions must have those fuses so that someone in criminal proceedings would not be unjust, would not be convicted without reason. And the Constitution itself says a lot about certain guarantees that are given in connection with criminal proceedings, is that the procedure where the state attaches, so to speak, to those most significant human rights, which is freedom. And on the other hand, he must really be regulated in one special way. One of the important things where I think a lot of things have been going through this debate, it is in these great proceedings which are also exposed to the public court that we have very little judgment and on this side of the Constitution also says that these procedures need to be conducted and completed within a reasonable time. That means that time limit and that trial and that investigative detention that is determined, that alone must not be a punishment. This must be in the function of one reasonable procedure in which all the evidence will be considered, shall assess all the facts that the evidence indicates and make one lawful judgment. If I can tell you what this law takes, it brings implementation into these four directives, I think none of them are controversial, it's definitely that we're also rallying, they definitely bring one good, much better position of the victim in the very criminal procedure, although a whole series of those provisions and in the present system used, but now it's more precise, now it's more comprehensive, now it's more detailed. We knew both ourselves before and what was the victim, and what was the damage and what were his rights and that the damage if the State's Attorney's office didn't continue the prosecution that he could continue the prosecution himself as a damage, we knew all of it before, but here it's technically much better laid, but of course it has one wider and larger leprosy of rights. Also, as far as the right to access a lawyer is concerned, I think it might contribute to the criminal procedure itself. So here, in the case of this interrogation, which is only about the doing of things, it is necessary to warn the suspect that he has the right to an attorney, which is a very good thing. If he of course gives up that right, and it is not a criminal offence for which a sentence of more than five years is prevented, he can give it up. But the important thing is that there are these provisions that can be recorded, and then it can be evidence in the criminal proceedings itself. This is a good step, by saying that we must also provide conditions for such a thing, means that we can also provide the defendant, the suspect and the victim of the crime that we can afford them with everything the law offers, that means that we can direct them to institutions where counseling will be offered, where they will be supported by victims of criminal offences that they can participate in this criminal procedure with as little stress and with as little exposure as possible because we know that they are already in principle exposed to the fact that they have suffered a criminal offence. As for this freezing and confiscation of assets and property benefits that have been resolved by one special law, it is now proposed that the law be abolished. I think that the minister was clear, we support it, those provisions are distributed in several laws, and that's why it's better to codify them here in a law that's native to it. And that's how I think it's also about the application and application of the law that we actually have a much better condition than we had before. It is very important to secure the infrastructure because let us not forget that two or three years ago the state's attorney made it clear that he lacks people, that he lacks material resources, because in order for us to act, we must primarily ensure these conditions that he can act. I'd say about these deadlines that want to extend, those deadlines that want to extend to the investigation, I think it's necessary for a second reading to prepare a whole set of data, to see if there's really a need for something like that, or if we can, if we're going to look at all the things that we have to do on better staff and material equipment for the state's attorney, if that's actually possible in that way, bridge. Because this one uncertainty that's created by actually extending those deadlines, I think it should be very careful there because the first deadline is 6 months, so he says it can be extended to 12 months, maybe it'd be better the other way around 12 and plus 6. Well, then there's still one deadline that can be six months old, and then there's still a deadline if the investigation isn't completed then the court can actually set a deadline within which an investigation needs to be completed. I think that these things should be very careful about it and that they should not be pursued and doubted. I'd say as far as the normative framework is concerned. We actually need a lot of good practice. We need good practice in terms of equality of conduct not only of the state's attorney, but of courts. We still need a lot of education. And here I'm going to give an example of one provision in the bill of this law that says what should be the solution to determining the prison of inquiry. I think it's a classic matter of practice, it's clear to you that it is the consequence of the European Court of Human Rights' decision. However, with one good practice, I think that the courts themselves need to know how they will explain it and why they will explain that someone is going to an investigative prison that in that explanation they must assess the reasons for it. And, because it's clear that there's a situation where we attack on the human right of freedom and if we're setting someone up for an investigative prison, so we've violated that constitutional principle, and then we have to explain it in detail why that is and why we're actually going into practice with this kind of measure. As for the abolition of the guarantee, I think that there is actually our legislator bound in some way by the Constitutional Court's decision and yet I think the Constitutional Court also has to do with one decision of the European Court of Human Rights, so that we see one continuity but what is happening here in practice, the guarantee will be possible and can only be used when there is a risk of escape, meaning the person who is the defendant or suspect. And for this other means if there is a danger of committing the same crime or any other crime, there will be an investigative prison standing and there will be and won't be able to be replaced by a guarantee. So I think that, on this side too, there is still a need to hold certain discussions about it and see clearly and analyse the situation relating to the figures as far as we have had certain guarantees, because maybe a little wrong in the public opinion creates the impression that the guarantee is used only by those rich who have actually significant resources, the guarantee is used in fact for much smaller works and in much, much smaller amounts. In public, of course, it's much more interesting to look at this when certain amounts are in millions and the whole series is cases where there is no such thing, when the amount is significantly smaller. As far as the case goes, there's been a lot of talk about trust in the judiciary, of course, that trust as far as justice is concerned is so long-term, public change research, saying that trust is not only not in criminal but also in civil society, but we have to be clear with one that many who will lose the proceedings, that many who will be condemned in the proceedings that they will actually say that judgments are wrong, that the court was wrong. I remember when I went to prisons as a minister and I didn't meet any of them there who actually said he was guilty, all of them there, according to their allegations, were powerless. What I think is not good for the public and it is, in fact, yes, it seems to me that information is coming out of the state bodies, we are actually getting complete statements from some witnesses out there that are being published in the paper and all of this actually affects the further conduct of the criminal proceedings. The media, of course, interfere with this by saying in the process in a way that they bring their grades, their courts about some procedure, and in this way a single atmosphere is created and it's very difficult to actually get the court away from it at all. That's what we can witness, actually here's where we had a minister who'd been involved for years in the process, and this is where we had an investigative commission for him in Parliament. And at the end of the great number of years when the proceedings were conducted, it was that this man was innocent, that he actually did not commit what was put on him not only at the court level on the burden but for a whole number of years in fact in the media. Now these are the people who are actually, so to say the victims of a system that I'm afraid we'll have to get used to because the media are present in all corners of our lives. And that's why it might not be bad if only the state's attorney's office and the courts themselves who have speakers were to regularly go public with the announcements so as to actually reduce that space for certain things to be created in the media and in public some conclusions that don't really have much to do with the truth. And I would only end up short, we support this law, of course, well that it is in the first reading, that certain analyses should be carried out until the second reading. But what I really want to say is that fighting crime isn't just about the State's Attorney's office, it's not just about the Home Office fighting, it's about fighting the whole society against it. And it means one culture of life and creating a different atmosphere. We will unfortunately be dissatisfied with our judiciary when we have this number of pending cases, when these important objects last us for a long time. And these are some things that will bother us, and I'm not saying that as open wounds in our society and great frustrations, they're non-sanctioning the crimes of war crimes as well as the conversion and privatisation that we've even changed the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33967	Six MPs reported the replicas. Now we're gonna take a break. After a break at 15.00 hours we continue with the replicas at the previous exhibition. Thank you. It's 13,26 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33968	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] And now the replica of the presentation of the esteemed representative Bosnjakovic will have a respected colleague, Ivica Misic. I can't see him. He's losing his right to a replica. Next up, he's a respected colleague of Steve Culey's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33969	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Bosnakovic, I left a tip here. He says the fight's stopped, our tools are blunt, we need to grind it out. I am very sorry that there are no colleagues here, Orsat Milenić, who was the minister of justice and that there is no Mr. Sprlje, today's Minister of Justice, so we could easily respond to that thesis Mr. Orsat Milenić here said in his reply to me, when he said about the case where I had determined some of my own, and where it was said that the judges had moved and the municipal court had moved away because in order to make a verdict if the municipal judge had to judge someone who was lucky in passing, who he knows and who he might be friends with. So I hope that, for that reason, everything is not transferred to Vukovar to form a court there to be the only court for us, because it is evident that in Vukovar in the city of the greatest crimes committed after World War II that the smallest percentage of the trial is on war crimes issues. And I will also determine here as well as Mr. Orsat. If you put judges and our cases in Vukovar there to make it easier for them to judge us, then why in Vukovar did you leave judges who were both judges and worked in the judiciary at the time of their province and where witnesses to those same crimes were who seemed and observed them, did not sanction them, and now they are again in the service not to sanction them because possible happiness of those former friends when we know that many of them were former JNA's majors?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33970	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33971	Thank you very much. Well, it's very short. We, when we passed this new Criminal Procedure Act in 2008, he completely changed the concept in fact. We've moved from a court investigation to a state-of-the-art investigation. We established the meaning of the jump department, so PNUSKOK at the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, at some point in application, a number of processes opened up. And now we see actually from these many processes very little is sanctioned and brought to an end. It is obvious, in fact, that this procedure led to a certain slowdown actually within these court proceedings themselves. It is necessary to clearly identify which reasons are and of course this law has been amended and this is the seventh change it needs to actually see how to make it even more effective. Although great actions, we need to know that they are also complex on some of the evidence that needs to be carried out there. Then when we look at it and just an unambiguous court practice, so we see that when a first-degree court makes one decision, then it comes to a senior court appeal procedure, so the higher or the Supreme Court returns it to a retrial, then we actually come to the point that it takes, lasts, and lasts. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33972	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33973	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bošnjakovic, you mentioned that a verdict should be reached within a reasonable period of time in the criminal proceedings. Here, I'd like you to tell us what a reasonable time limit it is for some investigation, for making a first-degree verdict for appeal. According to information published in several books, any delay in court proceedings lasting more than 5 years in European court practice constitutes a violation of human rights. This is how much I hear in Croatia almost every other procedure lasts more than 5 years, and it rarely lasts for more than 20 years, even 30 years. Here's this gentleman from HEP who's lost his hand and his leg has been sued for 31 years and has yet to exercise his right. It's a miracle he's even alive after such a long trial. Austria has 5 times fewer judges than Croatia and twice as fast to judge, it makes judgments than Croatia. So obviously there's no problem in people, so the number of people in frames. And you mentioned the case that the State's Attorney's office doesn't have enough people, that it doesn't have enough resources. It's a thesis that the state's attorney Dinko Cvitan keeps pushing through, but the numbers deny it. In the Croatian State Attorney's Office, a thousand 700 people have been employed, and he says two people who ride on bicycles and do not have a typewriter are employed. And when you look at the budget of the Republic of Croatia, here from this year I've seen dozens and dozens of millions of kunas given to state attorneys, both central and local, and this year they have been increased by 9 million kuna. So what kind of lack of conditions are we talking about if we're talking about the state's attorney's office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33974	The honourable representative Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33975	Dear counterpart Bunjac, this reasonable period is actually in the Constitution and it is said that criminal proceedings should be completed within some reasonable time and does not say whether that year, two, three, or four, or five. That reasonable period depends, in fact, on the conditions of a specific case. Some object is simple, some object is complex. I don't know two or three artisans, one doesn't have to spend one time, one hundred witnesses is being heard somewhere, five witnesses are being heard, and it depends on how long that reasonable period is. But in any case, the criminal proceedings can't be done with their duration, his length of investigation, he can't be punished for who's actually guilty or who's a suspect, that's what he thinks. And you're foreign if the State's Attorney's Office keeps pointing out that they don't have enough people, they have about 400 state lawyers, these are the other people who are employees, actually in technical services, and that, the judges we have around 1500, and the state's lawyers at various levels about 400. I think that the problem with the state's attorneys points out that it needs objectively to be analysed and, if needed, further strengthens means both materially and humanly that this step should be done. Because it's not doubtful that some of the actions are actually going on indefinitely long and that it's actually completely destroying legal certainty in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33976	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In your debate, you pointed out on several occasions that any verdict must be legal and that the most important thing is that an innocent person should never be charged. I couldn't agree more with you, but the question is, what if it's a counter case? For example. that the state institution is in the role of the prosecutor and then takes all the necessary steps to avoid a judgment by the power of power. For example. One of the items in Varazdin, 2013 state audit found that more than 2 million kunas of public procurement were spent in the city of Varazdin without the prescribed public procurement procedure. All this was forwarded to the State's Attorney's office, and the State's Attorney's office instead of launching the case and the whole case, it passed it on to the Ministry of Economy of Public Procurement. They then run the application but don't supply all the necessary documentation. The Court asks them to deliver all documents and documents on 4 February 2016, giving them a period of 8 days, they are only 18, and the court rejects the whole case because they did not provide all the necessary documentation within the prescribed time limit. So can there even be talked about the abuse of the official position and the authority of the responsible persons in the Ministry of Economy, and was the whole case predetermined in advance for the indictment to be dropped? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33978	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33979	Thank you very much. I don't really know the circumstances of this individual case you were talking about. But in principle, there are possibilities that some want to obstruct criminal proceedings and that some things actually want to be hidden in it. And that's why it's important, in fact, that all these bodies that function within the system, that I think of both the State's Attorney's Office and the USC as a special department of that and the Ministry of Interior and the PNUSKK to examine means, all of those relevant facts regarding the possible committing of a criminal offence. Here, if I understand you correctly, the Ministry of Economy has not delivered the documents requested to the Court of Justice, and the proposal was, in principle, rejected in any case, to ask the Ministry of Economy why it did not act within the time limit given to them by the court?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33980	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauche. He's gone. He's losing his right to a replica. And the next is Honorable Representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, I have listened very carefully and can conclude that I have agreed with almost most of them. The fact is, I can conclude that this law is in many ways wrong and needs to be fixed. He is far from ideal, definitely, I think the judiciary is one of the biggest problems in Croatia. I literally think so, and I think that every citizen would agree with me and I should fix it. I will speak, or, I will replicate to you on your exposure in that part, you have said that the basic purpose of this law is to fight crime. But I would also say fighting how to disable those who abuse certain criminal charges for some reason. First of all, I think of individuals not who are on duty, the sky of natural persons who abuse it in a way for political or any other reason. The fact is, it happens in a lot of cases. When Mr. Milenic spoke of cases, he said that from 830,000 items were reduced to 530,000 in his term. But we're talking about a lot of people filing criminal charges for criminal charges. I'd say it's for shame, debauchery or anything. How do you get there? How to make it impossible for those to abuse it, not to discredit people. Furthermore, the law also envisioned the theory of filing criminal charges for filing a false criminal report. What do you do in this sense, too, how do you simply prevent people from doing this here for some reason that is not the very purpose of solving the crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33982	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33983	So you yourself have actually said in your question that there is in our Penal Code which is relatively young and which is quite modern and in line with European directives and there is a criminal act described and as such means to file an important criminal application when the person who submits it is aware that there is nothing there, and has other goals of disqualifying someone, discrediting that it is possible to place him as an object of criminal proceedings and tell him about such a criminal sanction. And it is not disputed that in practice there is and clearly that we should act here, and I think if we come to a few criminal sentences against such people who want to harm others in such a way that it will be a good and general message to others not to do so. And to go back to this thesis that you said the same thing, which is that fighting crime isn't just a fight against the judiciary and the fight against the MUP, that's what I said in my opening statement, and that's where I stand. Indeed, it is only the ultimate measure because someone produces problems before it becomes an object of work by both the MUP and the judiciary. We need to create one environment and one climate in society and tolerance and better functioning of all state bodies in order to get as low a crime rate as possible. This is also extremely important because I think the judiciary is not only responsible for criminal convictions, related to the state of crime. There are many other elements that affect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33984	Thank you very much. The following will speak on behalf of the HDS, HSLS, HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33985	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I have found it appropriate to talk about this law, although I would like to say in advance that I am talking about something that is completely unclear to me. However, I was offered the fact that I read here in the proposal for this amendment to the law and the additions of the Law on Criminal Procedure in one paragraph, it is justified to ask the general but also professional public a question, etc. The question arises, what kind of public are we, and if you try to answer that question, I would say there are representatives of the professional public here, and I respect that, but there are also representatives of the general public, unprofessional public, in general. I belong to this unprofessional public here. However, the fact that I belong to an unprofessional public or to a general public does not justify me in my opinion whether I vote for this law or not. This law to pass must get 76 hands, and I am now asking myself a question based on which facts and knowledge I will vote on. And I was put in a position to feel insecure and ambitious as a man and as a parliamentary representative. To vote on one law based on individual experience is not good. To vote on one law on the basis of a newspaper article is not good, to vote on one law on the basis of a general opinion or, above all, a general opinion to which I am exposed is not good, to vote on one law based on the acquisition of certain political points in this House or in a positive or negative sense, it is nevertheless not good. Here we are representatives of the people and in this sense I want to quote the great German not only in the dimensions of Helmut Kohl who said "Work for the people, don't court the people" and I will follow that fact, in this way I am talking about this law. In that sense, I want to highlight two problems, one relationship between the parliamentary representative himself according to that law where I put myself in the worst position, maybe I'm the worst here, but by being guided by what's been said here, I have to quote some statements and there's also one that's not far from the truth "People don't trust the judicial system" even though it's not about the judicial system of the whole, but it's about three laws that are not a small thing. The three laws that we are talking about today form a large part of this judicial system, where it is said that there are privileged people and that the judicial system recognises it for these privileged persons, whether they are privileged for economic reasons or for political or other reasons, that their relationship with them is different from that of others. It's interesting to talk about privileged people without actually seeing that we belong to these people ourselves, that we are very much using the Institute of Immunities and that we can say what we want. And maybe it's okay, but then we have to let others do it. I don't think it's right, I think everyone has to answer for what he's doing. It is mentioned here in the context of this law that there are also populist statements. You see, populistism can be interpreted in different ways. Any policy that doesn't claim mass is either hypocrisy or not real politics. However, the popularism that wants, which is exhausting in this and which has content in wanting to do many good is, in my opinion, a legitimate story. The other thing I want to talk about here is the law itself, the bill itself. So here it is said that I am also starting from the fact that criminal behavior and crime is growing more and more and more, because of this fact that it is more and more, that it is increasingly different for me is even this palette is even wider than the law envisions forcing us to a subtle seriousness in the adoption of these laws. And no haste nor speed can be a directive, I can't be a reason to pass one of these serious laws that would give us time. I don't know how much you'll agree with the fact that there's a trial and that punishment is pronounced for what's not done, because it can't be returned. The sentence is said not to repeat it, to send a message that it must not be repeated, that society will not tolerate it, and that someone should bear sanctions for it. In the very philosophy of it, it is true what you will punish for what has been done. It's being punished as a message, to send a message saying no one can think of it, and that's why he has to be punished for doing it. But essentially not. That's why we're talking about how to do it today. We are talking about not making an even greater injustice in the decision-making process. And therefore the law on, the procedural law it deals with, which is also a narrow specialization within the legal profession, is a very serious and interesting issue. With that in mind, it occurred to me what kind of material we've been getting and what kind of material we're getting at all. I have to be honest here, so I'll say that no college student I teach at would defend a degree's work when he sent me this well-conceived and unreadable material. I know that many of you will disagree with me and that you will say that it is such a practice, but for God's sake that we stand here and we who do not know the right and that we must consult 50 pages and 50 Internet information to understand what it is, that the decision we make is very problematic. We can take a line of less resistance and accept what the board of directors or spite tells us to be against. It's not any other solution. The solution is to send too much material. I'll only start with terminology. I asked a few people in the hallway this morning if they knew what it was like to be in Colombian and interagency danger. That's what lawyers know, I don't doubt it. But out of these seven, eight people I asked, no one knows, no one knows. Can we discuss a document we don't understand? I don't understand him. Is that okay, and then I find out that it's about the possibility of repeating the escape or influence on witnesses or I don't know what it's all about. Can we say in Croatian that we know what this is about? When there's something I don't think is an evil intention, maybe this is the best law, maybe there's no objection but why not make it understandable. Why don't we make it clear to everyone? What's that for? What is the point of struggling with terminology and not talking about writing in one place in an article of three hundred, for example Article 356a is added. which reads and then 356a. The Council may, by examining the indictment, decide on proposals for the merger and separation of proceedings concerning the modification of the article for one comma and one word, and then I must look elsewhere for explanations. There is, but it's, I don't have mental capacity but I don't know who has it that can understand it all and unite it. That's methodological, that's gentlemen forgive me, but it really doesn't make sense. That doesn't make sense. So can it be made more legible, can it be made more reasonable? If I understand correctly, if I understand correctly, and it seems to me that I understand how many articles of this law before? Is it 564? Nobody cares about that. Now it's on 160 pages we've got changes where there's going to be about 135 articles. Where'd they go? What's changed so much? Is it possible that someone says I have it all in my head and I know exactly what I'm going to vote for? It is possible to find an isolated example and be against the guarantees in principle, against, to take away property that has been talked about a lot. But for God's sake, this is a country. A third thing that I find very interesting. The European Union Directives that have 6 or 4, 5, I don't know, so would it be possible to get them on the Internet, I know that there are them on the Internet, but with the support we have in the House, would it be possible for them to at least tell me that they are being printed and they say that this is the directive for you, and given that directive, we are opting for this and that variant that is in line with that directive? Here, without questioning anything, I am asked to vote. I don't know how to vote. I'm telling you, I don't doubt the noblest intentions, but let's make this House more understandable not only to people who are interested. It is not by chance that a small number are interested in the work of the Parliament, but also in us here. It's about the crucial laws for the functioning of this country, the relationship of man and man, the relationship of man and state, the relationship of righteousness, the relationship of sense of security. Well, we can't go with material like this. I'd like you to take this well-intentioned. It's not my goal of destruction. My goal is to improve the work of this Parliament, that everyone is behind their words, behind their decisions. We can't stand like this. It also shows our presence here in the Parliament. We all say that justice is the cancer of this society. There's 20 of us. I thought there'd be less of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33986	Thank you very much. But that's why there's a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33987	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Dodig, I'm pretty surprised with your argument right now. So if I'm not mistaken, you're a member of the HDS HSLS Club, HDSSB. I don't know if you were now speaking here on your own behalf or were you representing the attitudes of your club? From what you've said, you've spoken for yourself. That's what you should have taken a word for and talked about in an individual debate, because what you said and then you don't function like a club. If I'm not mistaken, you're part of the majority. So why didn't you invite the minister to explain these things that you're asking us here at the pay phone? So what you're saying shows you don't even know how constituency works, how clubs work, how you have advisors. So I don't know what you've been doing so far? So, I'm just shocked by what you said. You're saying we're interested in the public. Well, Professor, we are parliamentary representatives, the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. We're passing laws and we can't discuss it this way. With your debate, you're actually tearing down the reputation of this House of Representatives. Therefore, we here need to pass laws that will be even better than they are now in order to increase citizens' confidence in the judiciary. How will the citizens believe our laws if we bring them in the way you've now introduced that you work in your club? Well, it's a disaster. Here, I wanted to do a whole other replica, but now I don't have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33988	The answer of the esteemed representative Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33989	Good thing you just said that. I've been here honest. I spoke for the club. But I'm not a member, and I'm not part of most people who don't think. If that's where you belong, that's your problem. So I have expressed my disagreement with this way of Parliament, with this way of thinking, with this way of making decisions and that's what this law has served me. Before that, I wanted to talk and take five minutes, but this has helped me to speak in some way to the basic problems of this House and to make the law. Is it a shame to say I'm not a lawyer? If you think you're both a lawyer and an expert on other areas, I admire you. And that's why I'm asking for simpler explanations so that I can vote with a calm conscience. I don't want to vote if I'm not sure that's right. If you don't understand, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33990	Thank you. A colleague, Jovanovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33991	This Regulation shall enter My colleague Dodig, I will quote her: “I shall demean or insult the president or other representatives.” So Mr. Dodig at my very moderate debate on how to work to make this House more appreciated than citizens has said that I don't know how to think and can't think for myself. So, all I was saying was, I was saying that I was thinking for myself. And I'd ask you to be careful how you treat your fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33992	Okay. It wasn't so formulated, and I'm assessing that he wasn't hurt by the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Dodig, you stated: “People do not believe in the judicial system because there are privileged persons, because according to them the law is different. ” I agree with you, and that's exactly why we're here to discuss these things and make good, proper laws. I won't talk about those privileges whether they're guilty or not. I will speak in the context of the one we speak within a reasonable period of time or that the proceedings are conducted within a reasonable period of time. And now we can ask a question which is a reasonable time limit? I think that's the basic problem because the fact that it's frustrating, and above all, that's what the citizens think, and we represent the citizens, I think, at least, when they're taking action indefinitely, it's really frustrating, I believe for the citizens, but it should be for us, too. And then in this context, I agree with you, there are privileged here. There are people who have been prosecuted for ten years. And what's a lot to depend on? Unfortunately, such actions are not directed "to those who have no money" but to those who have money. There's a problem. It turns out that the folk “How much money so much music” and it turns out that those rich can afford to be guided into endlessly is the most important thing to have money and pay for a good lawyer. And then when you pay for a good lawyer, you can do anything. In that sense, something needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33994	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33995	There is, and I agree that money makes people privileged, but that's why we're here to show that the privileged can't be, not just for the money, but for the position we're taking. We here automatically accept that we can say and insult someone because we are protected by the immunity of the assembly. That doesn't mean we can't talk, but if we inaugurate the practice that we can say something without responsibility because we're here, inauguration the practice of inequality, nothing else. And I agree with you that money has become a factor that makes some people more privileged or not, there's no doubt about it. And it's untranslated and unfair because of a poor justice system, not because of the law itself. And that's bad, that's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33996	The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33997	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Dodig. I'm glad you said that this law itself is too bulky, so that it can be processed quickly and it has 564 articles. And for that reason, I remind her once again that there was no need to unite three laws into one. So we are discussing each directive individually and it is about amending one, two articles, and now that we have three laws that are huge, important laws that are of interest to the Croatian public, we have united them and we will end them in one day without a proper conclusion on what these laws are making and how you yourself said they should be voted on Friday. I'd like to remind those who don't know that this is the seventh amendment to the same law, so this is the seventh amendment. Look at the number of articles a, b, c that are constantly added and always change from the beginning as it corresponds to which minister of justice, and basically we see that the situation in the judiciary doesn't change significantly. When you mentioned the European directives, let us see that the Minister of Justice does not understand European directives and how this law could at all look good and how he could well present it to you if he does not understand himself what the meaning of the directive that he wants to transpose into the Croatian economy is, in particular, Directive 48/2013. A year. We saw this morning that the President of the Parliament does not understand the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We already objected to the Constitutional Committee today because here you say they're not human lawyers. Maybe we'd learn something if we tried. It's a really big problem, and it's sad that, in addition to the problems that we have in the judiciary, we're breaking over the knee of changing the law like you said yourself without real understanding and without the need for such fast procedures as we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33998	Thank you. And the last replica of Anka's distinguished representative, Mr. Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u33999	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Dodig. You here in your debate have triggered really one topic where you spoke about the complexity of the law and about a terrible amount of provisions it has. So there were people out there in the Renaissance who understood everything. We can't really and really need each other today, and we can't understand everything, and that's clearly what we need to say. Every MP needs to know the basic elements of the law, but here is really a set of laws that are quite difficult. We need to know that they are quite difficult to understand, not even all lawyers or lawyers have certain problems, and that is the case. Therefore, debates can only be discussed in the part of which a person has some knowledge or in principle. And it is indeed a fact that laws come that are easier to read and laws that are not so easy to read. Likewise, if in real life you face some law, then you see about what the problem is, if that's not the case. These are really very tough laws, and that's what you have to say. Not only do they have this large amount of provisions, they must obviously have them, but you really need to have certain knowledge that lawyers have to understand to the end. But as Parliamentarians, we need to know the intensity, we need to know what the point is, we need to know why they're changing, and in that sense we need to discuss. I understand your discussion that at one point, you start reading and then you freak out if you haven't met with it. But it is our job, and as such we need to understand it. Therefore, the very important reasons that we have in the law are an explanation with certain provisions for the simple reason that we can understand the intensity of the law. There's a law, I'm an architect of my entire working life meeting laws and I really have some problems with reading and I don't mind saying that I have problems and that's why it's a good thing that you've been discussing this stage like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34000	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Dodig's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34001	I've also met with the legal profession through my professional work as a court expert, so I'm not entirely familiar with this problem and the possibility of getting along. But I believe that such important things can be said anything, but in a simpler and more understandable way. It doesn't seem to me like it's made any effort, not even a little effort to say it in an understandable way. The intensity of the law of the government I trust, when it says the intensity of the law, the key things that are at stake. That's almost enough for me, you know. I don't think I can break that law with my proposals, because the people who created it know more than I do. But I need to know, there's a simpler way to explain this intensity to me. The fact that we're Parliamentarians don't write anywhere, it's not defined anywhere that we're capacitated to understand it. I'm convinced that I may be underestimating and I don't want you to take this as an insult to the MPs, but that a large number of people who aren't here today and who aren't interested in one part and because they don't understand. Finally the form I'm talking about, the form often defines content. You know the giraffe eats high because it has a tall neck, a long neck, eats branches, doesn't eat grass. The form is often very important in these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34002	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Nada Turina-Djuric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law on criminal proceedings which is a key part of this law that we have today in a united debate is seven times, meaning the fundamental one in the amendment, or supplement. Many would think and think in a way that these are too frequent and too profound changes and too much changes in a relatively short time. However, knowing that I was also in the previous or previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament when we seem to have had procedures in this law, I can say that this proposal, and also those proposals that were a few years ago, is actually being modified, i.e. novelized in accordance with above all some practice and needs that arise from practices in criminal proceedings but also from the need to improve rights, primarily individual rights, regardless of whether they are on the side of the damaged or the victims or are on the side of the defendant. And I think that, in fact, through these amendments, i.e. through these four directives that I assume that, given that we have been going through the EU accession process for a relatively long time and that we have absolutely been in order to bring this legislative framework into line with it, that we have no problem with that, so we are harmonising with the directives that improve the system from the level of experience of all EU members and EU standards. So on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, I can say first and foremost in relation to this part relating to the new definition of the victim that we support these amendments, i.e. compliance with the directive, because it is essentially about increasing the victim's rights in the process. In fact, there's a lot of change, and these discussions are good at finding that one large majority of us here are not enough in the practice of this law. Because in order for this law to fully know you had to be in practice, which means you have to be, so it's not quite simple, it means monitoring all the changes that are proposed. But I don't think it's particularly difficult to follow the intensity of the amendments to this law. So I think that doubts as to whether the rights of the victim should be increased in criminal proceedings are not something that we should be asking here as a crucial question whether or not these amendments to the law support. However, there are some other parts of the law where it is possible to discuss this particular balance that would have to be ensured in the Criminal Procedure Act, which is that the victim and the defendant have in some way the same rights, i.e. that the whole story is balanced. It means that no one in this procedure is damaged, but to reach the final goal that this law has before it, which is to give a final verdict, or to say whether someone who is guilty or not is guilty. I would agree that this law may not be one of the most important, but surely a law that has a much wider and stronger social context than one large majority of the laws that we are discussing here have. And that a law like this may need to be more plastic, more extensive, and more extensively presented to not only parliamentarians, but also to the general public. Because, of course, what our citizens are most complaining about and what they have the biggest problem is that all these procedures mean in the judiciary most of the time. And that's why we have a whole series of objects that are piling up, and indeed this Croatian Parliament, if there is something most to be discussed, is to try to make the whole system, or to force it through legislative frameworks to be effective, to make judgments in the right way. However, here the content is something else, is not it, and in one part it is it but is not a key part of the content, but is a key part of the content means harmonising with directives, i.e., adapting the whole process to the needs that come from practice. We in HNS are the only thing that we would like to draw attention to in this first reading, given that changes in the law in us, especially in laws like this, unfortunately, do not produce the real effect that we expect, and among other things is to be effective and quickly applicable to, in their own actions. There is a provision here that speaks, an article that speaks of a police investigation, or the possibility of an investigation being conducted in front of police officers being presented as evidence, i.e. to be a valid evidence that should, in our opinion, speed up certain processes and procedures. But the question, of course, is that of our eternal doubts whether we are willing to apply such provisions within what time and will we be effective in this? And otherwise, laws like this are not the key question of whether they have a good intensity? In my opinion, these laws, all that is proposed here has a good intensity, is it just a question of whether, is it possible to implement in the system in a way that is immediately effective and immediately after the law is passed? And here I express my doubts just by what I said means questioning by the police or evidence submitted by the police, the question of whether our police officers are currently being educated, whether they are prepared, prepared to implement this law to full extent in order to have those effects that are expected to take place. This, of course, should be said again in practice, that is, should be said by our police officers, or our MUP, whether we have the opportunity to apply such a thing or there will also come again, unfortunately, the failures and such, which again and all the procedures that we often have will return to some initial position in repeating procedures, etc. So that's something that I don't know if we're quite accurate and whether the Proposer can tell us precisely whether it's within this proposal or possibly something else can be fixed in some way, or whether it's complemented in a way that's really how it says it's going to be, or whether it's effective. We also think that this proposal on recording the procedures themselves, i.e., bringing in evidence that this will in some way improve, will increase if nothing else and the consciousness of those people who are involved in this, knowing that they are still under certain scope to check and that someone else is familiar with the content of what they are doing and how they are doing so that I think it is a certain step forward. As we said, it means it's very extensive, the law itself is terribly extensive, and these changes are huge. We support the intensities, but we believe that in some of these provisions that they will begin to create or open up some new problems. I think, first of all, the waist should say its own. And I think that both the ministry and the people in the ministry and the attorney's office and the police can specifically suggest in which direction some other repairs could possibly go in order to prevent us from passing a law that will be poorly applicable to us or not be applicable in such a way as to meet our expectations. Here, the Croatian People's Party will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34004	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34005	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. A colleague of the CNS I listened to persistently your exposure, I don't know, I'd wonder how long your party was in power? We've had years to build functional institutions to strengthen these institutions, and there's still a legal yawn that hasn't been seen I think since... the Republic. You're mentioning the police here. Is it a policy of the art of setting priorities? How many years will it take us to create a functioning legal system with simple enforceable laws... implement? I've worked with the D.A. for ten years, I know what the law is, it has to be applicable. Where are you going to get a special officer five and a half thousand kuna? The State Inspector over there for the Church, and that's why, you have these backlogs you're not talking about, eliminating socialist bureaucracy, paperwork that increases that corruption. At every level, someone's looking for a bribe. Why is Croatia at the bottom of this corruption Porception index with other post-Communist countries? Because key problems have not been solved, and there is no rule of law. He's got some kind of mix of socialist law, and God knows what else. And that's why we have half a million of these unsolved cases in the courts and we keep going round and round like a dog running after its tail. I would say again in the end that this reminds me of this eternal love foreplay, that there are no real combat actions. And until we figure it out, I'd say this is going to happen in Croatia, you're going to get people out on the street because you created a legal, you're responsible, I've been here in Parliament for a year something. A parallel legal system was created for the powerful, and another for the common paradise for the peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34006	Thank you. I don't have an answer. So we're going to an individual debate. And the first one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34007	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretary, here we have amendments to the law, and everyone says the intensities are good. Some kind of agreement has been reached with certain and of course the intensity is good. However, the legal framework in very important laws is often changed. The change may be necessary, but to do better, however, what we all know is best recognised by the entire people in Croatia is to apply it. The biggest problem is when this bill is passed is whether it will be as it is so far, and that is the worst decision-making process and the whole process that will take place in a way as so far as the key in the drawer is large fish, and the small fish in the judiciary remain in the wind, quickly condemn them, their rights are minor. And this is one of the biggest problems in Croatian society, which all regulations, and most of all these rules where the whole criminal procedure is involved by the police, is from an investigation that is long-term in the judiciary that in the investigation, in the DORH, USKOK, all bodies are the biggest problem of mistrust of citizens in the judiciary due to judicial corruption. Because it is impossible that, after everything that's happened in Croatia, no one has been convicted of anything, except a few individuals for I don't know, some works that have either been done by peeling potatoes or in a way for a few days in prison or similar. When we look at how the little man will look at us, then of course he will see from what we all repeat. If a man made a nursery for sale in his house and sold it in the market or somewhere illegal, the police came. The law enforcement force, they brought him in, they wrote him a fine, and someone who destroyed the entire economic system in the Republic of Croatia from telecommunications, INA, energy, full economy, agriculture, of course, is not responding and, of course, that message is disastrously mainly to ordinary citizens and people who want to invest, invest in Croatia. So it's very important that all these laws we make are not just blank letters on paper. The most important is application. The easiest thing to do is to rewrite all these directives. The directives sent by the European Union are the easiest to prescribe, perhaps the best laws in other countries. But if it's not applicable, then we've done worse because it's going to be carried out selectively, without criteria, and of course it's going to hurt one innocent if the damage isn't good. It's not good because it's inapplicable to the worst. This means the legal uncertainty of every individual in the Republic of Croatia, which is the worst. So it's a direct violation of the Constitution. At this point, the executive authority should insist, both the judicial authorities, so the police, so that the BOOK, so that the DORH are professional and that they are criteria for everyone equal that is not in the Republic of Croatia. So I personally agree with the intensities of the law because it's the law, there's progress on bail as well, and on the confiscation of what was obtained unlawfully during the initiation of this prosecution procedure. The evidence of all these materials is estranged or estranged. And it's all wrong. However, I think the ultimate effect should be, every step is good. As a citizen, I mean, when you talk to people, the most important and painful thing is that they got rich because they didn't, which they got rich illegally, not the people who created. The ones who created have property good standing it's okay. However, we have one problem with what was acquired by corruption, the robbery after the Homeland War that it remained simple, citizens see that these people have no consequences, no criminal consequences. So we have to list everything that's happened in Croatia, but we have repeatedly repeated it, and I think until, this is good for the secretary to hear here and for the entire government and all of us here in Parliament that the moment one good and consensual law on the origin of the property is passed, it means one common law on the origin of the property which would have been determined that some have come to their empires that they were not able, of course, to have those people who came by their efforts, work, pawnage or happiness won at Lot. However, there were not so many winnings on Lot that all of Croatia was robbed, that few people were rich, and there is no idea how they got to these funds, so I will start from the smaller environments, from my environment where I live, and everything here towards Zagreb. And this legal uncertainty is a fundamental problem. So, the key problem is that law-intention is good, law-intention is good. However, without the law on the origin of property everything, legal uncertainty will never come to life in Croatia, nor will citizens trust the corrupt judiciary or other institutions. Because normally, someone illegally acquired huge companies destroyed simply that citizens can't normally look at. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34008	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34009	Dear colleague Bulj, I have listened to your exposure again, but I think we must concentrate, always a mystery to me, a mystery to why we in Croatia don't talk about, we always repeat the symptoms of a disease never cause that disease. Why don't we say the right word in Croatia, and that word has nothing to do with ideology, it's called decommunisation. How can we expect them to run our institutions, you have two men changing up there in the State's Attorney's Office, former system personnel, how will these people modernise our country? Look at the people in the parties, I agree on corruption, and why we avoid saying why Croatia is where it is now because those points on the issue are never this decommunisation and corruption, so help yourself, a little bit of doing a lot of stealing, the root of it is the mental set, buried in that system and the root of all our problems is moral-ethical because Croatians, like all other post-Communist countries from Kazakhstan to Ural from the Ural to the Adriatic, have lost, the inhabitants unfortunately spiritual intelligence and moral instinct. That's because we've got so many princes of shivering. He writes to you a strategy to stop corruption, the man who may have stolen the money, I say, he may have stolen the money, and he was Secretary of State Business, sitting in the Constitutional Court today. That's what Comrade Stalin said, I think, he said politics is about human policy. As you expect these people to change your system, those people whose mental circuit remained stuck there in the fifties of the last system when it was a command, buddy, get along, do a lot of stealing, and we inherited it today. What about private property and robbery that took place here until the 1990s, millions of hectares of agricultural land, thousands of businesses never returned, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34010	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34011	Kolega Glasovic would agree with you that all totalitarian regimes have done great harm to Croatian citizens, not only material damage but also damage to the waste of many families, and many have gone to other countries. So here's the key problem you mentioned, you said your constitutional court writes in person, I didn't vote for those constitutional judges, you were at the HDZ Club at the time, and then the HDZ and SDP were voted unanimously for constitutional judges. From these benches even some went... then your club said I was at where you were. So I absolutely don't think that crime, I'll repeat it again, has ideology, no religion, no nation. So the criminal is a criminal. But it is also a fact that all these structures once UDBA, the second time SIS, later UNS and they have simply survived both in these services in the structures of the judiciary and they are there, that's a fact. So they don't have faith or ideology, they're also communist regimes, later they become tycoons. They were in communism some officials inside certain companies don't know Agrokor, as he was called before or similar companies or Tedeschi or his family or as it was already going, so they always worked that way. These functioned within the economy, those within the judiciary, those within the secret services, and they just turned the cap, i.e. A badge. But the fact is that all totalitarian regimes have done great damage and the fact is that the judiciary is corrupt and that the biggest mistrust of Croatian citizens is right in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34012	Thank you very much. Before we move on to further replicas, I ask you all to stick to the subject. The esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34013	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. So you said in your debate that it was necessary to pass the Law on the origin of the property, so the day it was here your Minister of Exclusion. So what are we gonna do, reintroduce him in a week? Here we go today. So we have the law of confiscation of illegally acquired property and what we're doing, we're terminating it. And now you're saying let's pass that same law. We had a law. It's a great law. He didn't implement anyone. Here you could spend it, you've had a year and three months as long as you're in the government I haven't seen anyone taken away by that law. She was taken from no one. So basically that law was already in force and you could easily implement it if you wanted to. And as for what Mr. Glasnović said and what you said yourself, here's to say that Mr. Judge has filed a criminal report that he took 630 thousand euros in cash in the 11th month of 2016. You have a minister of justice, should you quote what your minister of police said? I don't think there can be a person in the Constitutional Court who's been hiding an identity that has serious indications that she's taken bribes. The message that sends a council to which such a man is, and led by a man who tolerates it, is the greatest threat, beware now, national security and bring mistrust into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. So that's the current minister's statement. What have you done since your criminal application on 23.11.2016? Here's an answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34014	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34015	My colleague Bunjac, personally for these constitutional judges, I did not vote in Parliament, and that is very easy for you to verify. And how many criminal charges I've filed, you certainly haven't, and how many of those are raised against me, if I were to file criminal charges, so we can see it. So I've always had civil courage, and... until I was in Parliament until I had immunity and, like some of yours, I'd whine not to have my immunity removed. I was sued by Hanžekovic, by Karamarko, Tedeschi or anyone. I don't want to whine. You know what I And as for the very Law on the Origin of Assets itself, if no one proposes it, I hope here I signed the same law when you lectured on a bill that was good, meaning, about establishing a commission for a particular also robbed our institution and institution very important. I also hope you'll sign me. I'll find a lawyer if the minister won't propose a law on the origin of the property I'll propose it, but I can't do it alone. So you can't tell me what you've done? And what did you do? I've filed European criminal charges against the tycoon who took money for weapons in Sinj. I personally call them and call the state's attorney where the money is. I can't wait for him to come here, but Bajic was here before him. Name and last name I mentioned. They are the rulers of this country and I personally have neither fear nor fear. Because when I was 19, I crossed over, this is not the Croatia for which people and you participated in the Homeland War, as well as the generals and the people on one side and the other did not fight for this state. We have to be persistent, and complaints in this way don't really lead to anything. If it's necessary soon there's no... law, I'll propose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34016	Thank you very much. The next individual debate by distinguished representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34017	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the legislator of this law. And this law has been passed because of the need that we have given guidelines that we have adopted in the accession process to the European Union, but we have an amendment that has not been affected by the guidelines in this law. A brief look at them even in front of clubs was made by Mr. Bošnjaković and Mr. Orsat, and at the beginning Mr. Salapic in the replica. It is an extension of the deadlines for the investigation, of the prosecution, of the extension of the deadlines for the prosecution, of the institute of return to the former state and of the institute of withdrawal of the indictment and of the return to the former state. It's only three articles, and somehow no matter how few, when there are few of these articles, when there are little changes I always like to say "in the details is the devil" so I love and consider whether there are sanctions on how long these deadlines are now being extended and, of course, there's a question, and even when we talk about criminal law, we all look at legal security here today. Mr. Collar, one of our exhibitors today, said that every five hundred participants mean criminal proceedings and the public when we talk about criminal proceedings, is somehow less interested in certain parts relating to the position of the defendant, the defendants, because we all kind of hope that we will not and strive never to find ourselves in that role. But what we're interested in is that all the events and crimes that happen to people are condemned and that this procedure is going on quickly. So, my individual debate on Article 75, which is amended, means Article 229. The law on the criminal proceedings in which the investigation is being extended, and Article 95 amending Article 356 concerning the return of the indictment. In accordance with Article 98 of which Article 365 is amended and laying down between the other and the deadlines for bringing up the new amended indictment. What the Proposer has been saying today is that changes are proposed in relation to the work of the State's Attorney's Office which aim to further balance the request for the effectiveness of criminal prosecution. Thus, the Institute of Enlargement of Investigation, which was aware of the 97th Law, is introduced, which is necessary to be re-reprechased for the need to which the daily application of the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act has been indicated. It is also said that a simpler concept of extension of the investigation is proposed to discharging state lawyers from administration in the formal extension of the investigation, and the pre-inclusive deadlines are extended, of course, that we are all sensitive to pre-exclusive deadlines because then it means that there are no legal options that are allowed after that if we miss those deadlines. Therefore, legal options are not allowed to continue to bring charges with the introduction of the Institute of Return to the former state of affairs in so far as the indictment is not brought within the legal time limit for justifiable reasons for which the court decides. Furthermore, the Proposer states that the detailed normised institutions are the withdrawal of the indictment and return of the indictment, whose subjugation in practice has caused some confusion. And I believe that indeed practice shows that certain procedures, i.e. investigations, cannot be conducted within the deadline. And we're also coming up with indictments that aren't prepared enough, and I understand that means the justification of these demands to extend it. But I have to say that we have to keep an eye on the principle of legal certainty on the victims and that it would be directed, we recently talked in the Parliament about assessing the effects of individual laws, and we should see what happened in 2007 when we moved from one system to another means an investigative procedure. So, when we transferred the system of investigation from the court to the state's attorney's office. Does this mean that it produced these effects that were sought and that the effectiveness of the investigation would be increased by extending only deadlines or still requiring some other requirements on education, in terms of perhaps strengthening human capacities, etc. So, ten years ago, it was debated with great interest, meaning both the public and the state attorneys whether to amend the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, which refers to the investigation and meaning, the Republic of Croatia as well as most of these continental countries has one mixed system, means, in that part where it chooses what is best between the inquisition and the acoustic type of criminal proceedings. And that's what's important in choosing what's best. And the key argument at that time to transfer the investigation from the court to the state's attorney was that at that time, it would be very important to change the duration of the investigation, that the investigations would be faster, and now we saw that this was not happening in a particular section or that there were requirements for them to be longer. Since this first reading would be well seen, the effects that occurred in 2008 mean until the second reading and consider whether or not we are really going to increase the effectiveness of the investigation by this change. It also means that when we transfer the investigation from the court to the state's attorney's office, we have an informal, faster procedure and a lady who exhibited outside the HNS club, she also said that she is concerned that this law gives the evidence value to both the police team and the like. So what the practice shows when it comes to police research means that although the law defines it as evidence in the procedure, most of them are questioned by such decisions that have not been made, meaning the investigation or data which did not occur by the work of the court in the investigation and the whole, means that the investigation procedure, or the subsequent determination of facts, is even longer, because it is believed that such evidence which occurred in such a way does not have that power and credibility as the actions carried out in the previous system of the investigating judge. So it's very important that we consider these effects that were up until 2008. And yes, we've now had a lot of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was mentioned today, so this is the seventh change. We are now making some changes because they immediately require this means these EU guidelines, or guidelines that we have adopted alone when we have joined the EU. And now it would be important to see if these changes are actually making arguments that we've come up with means the law. We said we're transferring the investigation from the judge to the State's Attorney's office because this whole procedure will be shortened and now we're extending the deadlines. So there are too many amendments and it should be considered whether these amendments should be left for one procedure, i.e. the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34018	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Ivan Pernar first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34019	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to ask my representative, if she thinks that the biggest problem in the Croatian judiciary is procedural, meaning, for example, the Code of Criminal Procedure, or the bigger problem in Croatia, is that, meaning state institutions are covering and protecting political corruption at the highest level, political corruption as was the case of Eve Sanader who was accused of crime long ago before the indictment was ever made with the note that my chief state attorney told me live in conversation one to one, that Ivo Sanader would never be convicted. And is the problem that the trial of Nadan Vidosevic has not yet begun as well as the trial of Milan Bandic and a whole gallery of characters who are literally politically protected. I would also like to point out the case of a constitutional judge here if unfortunately, if I can read it, it says like this: Veli, said Vlaho Orepić: "I think there can be no person in the Constitutional Court who has hidden the identity for which there are serious indications that she took the bribe." Be careful what one of the three who took the money in Austria says further. He says: “On the third meeting with... says Ropuš there were all three." So Davorin Mlakar, Josip Vresk and I. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said Ropusch from Daniel Ropusch's record he signed. The money was reportedly divided into three equal parts and each received 210,000 euros each. What is the meaning of these amendments to the law when the worst types of corruption will continue to be protected from the law and when the courts will have a non-functional protection of crime at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34020	The reply of the distinguished representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34021	So I think the biggest problem is often in Croatian society that in criminal proceedings we want to transfer the investigation into media space, to the assembly, and that is not the place. We are here to secure optimal solutions, means for individual institutes and to protect all entities in criminal proceedings. And we really need to be really careful about the presumption of innocence and it would be good for us all to stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34022	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34023	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Rosčić, in your debate, you have also raised doubts about the quality of the law in view of this seventh amendment and the extension of the deadlines for investigative actions. We are all aware that there is a suspicion of a judicial system in the Republic of Croatia and that by extending the deadlines for investigative actions we will not go with it to restore confidence in the judicial system. We're not going to help the victim with a timely verdict, but on the other hand, we're not going to allow the suspect to remove suspicion in time if the indictment against him is malicious or anything like that. I'm also asking you if it would be wiser to invest more money in the judiciary to invest more money in reconnaissance procedures, skills-like, high-quality technical equipment and support for investigative judges and people in the system because the state's attorney himself said that some of the reconnaissances had no money and that's why no charges were filed. And I don't think with these delays and extensions of time without investing in this infrastructure, we're not going to achieve the desired goal of having a functioning judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34024	The reply of the distinguished representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34025	Well, I'd say extending the deadline doesn't necessarily have to be bad, but to me, I'd like to see more facts as to why we're extending those deadlines. Because if we're going to achieve the short deadlines to bring the bristles of the indictment without any firm evidence, and if we're going to be perceived in public that we have short notices that end up constantly with some sort of acquittal, we just need to be careful not to look at the way the media generally perceives these proceedings. Because the end of something as a acquittal does not necessarily mean bad, especially if it has passed the procedure very quickly does not mean that it was a guilty verdict. So it's very important that we be careful here and evaluate it. I can't say that this is a bad proposal, but personally, since this first reading would have liked to see some more reasons why this was adopted like this and I'd like to see some assessment of those effects we've had since 2008. Because when we look at these views and criminal proceedings in different countries, it is important that we always choose what is best when we use a mixed type of criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34026	Thank you. The next debate is the distinguished representative of Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Sauche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow MPs and fellow MPs, there has been a lot of talk on this subject today. As experts, I think they have exhausted more or less all these professional aspects of this law. I've been thinking a lot about whether or not to answer this topic at all. But I simply consider my duty as Parliament's representative to say some things about this after all. These changes that are going on today, so I think one part of these changes is good. For one part, I don't think it's good, and here I am on the trail of what my colleague Roscic was saying, and I think she said very well here and I see that she's really great at this topic. Otherwise, this is an extremely difficult topic. It's a tough law. It's a law that represents an entire college that lawyers specialize in their entire lives and still cannot fully cope with in every norm. And I think that in this discrepancy or legal uncertainty contributes also to relatively frequent amendments and additions to this law. And I think it would be good to break this practice and, especially when we have such important laws that are procedural laws, laws that define one procedure in which in the end, something that can result in every human being being being being being being's worst, which is the loss of some constitutional rights, personal freedoms, loss of property, loss of honor, loss of honor, loss of meaning and life, that we really need to be extremely careful and that we have to look at it from every point of view, as much as perhaps that may be unpopular any time. He's the easiest person to point a finger at and say he's a thief and then resent that the judiciary hasn't processed him and condemned him to some kind of public reasonable time. Now, here's the question of what does it get, so what kind of system is it supposed to be? Is it just because someone pointed a finger at him and said it was your fault? And is it someone's fault that he's already in the stage when a criminal report has been filed against him? Is he guilty when an investigation is launched against him? When was the indictment filed? It's not. Fortunately it is not, and therefore it is defined both in the Constitution and in this law, and it is precisely the principle of presummation of innocence which is so often forgotten in public space and in this assembly and in the media space, is something that we really need to keep from labeling anyone with various labels of thieves, criminals, should have ended up in prison earlier, why not. This is about extremely important and sensitive matter. The system, we were taught in college that it must be fast, effective but that it must be just. How to reconcile these legitimate interests for the system to be, to make the system effective, to lead to what within a relatively quick and reasonable time? Until the verdict is acquittal or acquittal. To be just. So nobody gets convicted of a crime he didn't commit. To be effective so as not to spend unreasonable funds on prosecution. However, what I have seen and read here today from these changes and additions, from the statement by the Minister of Justice that some of these changes are being ordered to relieve the State's Attorney General. I think it would be much smarter and it would be more effective to give birth to this state's attorney's office that every time the state's attorney asks for more budgetary resources and for the education of the state's attorneys and for their further improvement, and for their material working conditions that are really not God-knowing and that they are given a quality legal framework within which they can act. I think it's much smarter than to extend deadlines for certain actions in criminal proceedings that will ultimately lead to processes that will last an extremely long time and which creates for the person who is the subject of the criminal procedure of course normally human one continuing discomfort and uncertainty, on the other hand the public perception is that our judiciary is not working, that the verdicts are not being passed. So, I don't think we're doing anybody any favors by extending the deadlines. In fact, I think we're doing a counterservice. And what I can't help but notice is that all these relaxation deadlines are in the rules and favors of the state's attorney's office. So, not the other side. And one of the other things they taught us in college is that there should be some kind of basic weapons balance to express myself between the prosecution and the defense. The current situation is far from that. So we have one system in which, by one stage of the process, simply the law enforcement bodies have an initiative, they have great powers, they have great rights, and the other side can basically only hope for the best. Although, of course, there is a obligation in the Law to all state authorities to look at all the evidence that goes in favor, which goes on and on the burden of the person under investigation. But, unfortunately, that's not how it works. That's why I think for a solution like this where additional deadlines are being extended for further investigation, I think half a year if I'm not mistaken and those deadlines are no longer too inclusive, but instructive that it's very bad and that it's definitely something to think about. And he would also touch the Institute of Return to a previous state which I don't think is very clear here and I think he's going to put the defendants, so the defense often in a very difficult position. So as far as I'm aware of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I'm not an expert, I've finished that college, but as I said, it's a big, big, big exam and very heavy matter. The defense doesn't have that kind of luxury. So all defense-related deadlines are usually too inclusive. And in this case, we have the position of the DORH that has a huge apparatus, with enormous powers where the deadline is instructive. To bring the debate to an end, I think it's really time after seven amendments and an addition of such an important law to access one whole, fellow Ok, one whole amendment to this law and not just this law. We need to look into the Law and the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK Act. It's all an expensive part of one system means criminal persecution. We can't just look at things this partial. Basically, like I said, there are good things here. Especially with the definition of the victim. In addition, as regards the replacement, i.e. I don't think it's a big deal. I think it's a good definition, so the rest is for the possibility of replacement means bail in case of a risk of escape. But with these extensions of deadlines and the possibility of a return to the previous state, I just can't agree, and I've also talked to a lot of colleagues from the profession of lawyers who also feel that this is not quite right. I think we should, maybe now this is some kind of transitional solution, a transitional state but I think we should fix this part between these two readings and then we should really go to one comprehensive change and all the articles should be in one place. I think it is some kind of minimum legal meaning of legal certainty and some normative standard that should be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34028	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34029	Dear fellow Sauch, so I witnessed the work of the Croatian judiciary in your case right here in the Parliament I had the opportunity to watch a farce directed by state institutions with my eyes, and I will explain why. The only people until your case that immediately after the removal of immunity ended up in custody were in this House two. Branimir Glavas, who has been charged with the liquidation of civilians and Ivo Sanader, a former prime minister who has been charged with millions of malfeasances, thefts, etc. And then in those two individuals you suddenly add your character and you're looking for detention for you on what basis. In this way your detention goal was to create an illusion in the public that it was your fault, the assumption that the trial was just a matter of formality and a general position that you were actually convicted without trial. Such work of the DORH is a shameful team more than a representative in the Croatian Assembly as the highest representative body of citizens. On the other hand, as I said, there are according to the testimony of witnesses and the Minister himself in the Constitutional Court of People who took enormous figures for bribes. There are people who have admitted guilt as the Virovitica mayor of the HDZ, and there is much, much more. Here's to Mr. Calmett's confirmed indictment. However, I did not see that while he was the minister that Kalmet was being sent into custody, but now that he has lost power and influence in HDZ, now that they no longer need him, now that they want to get rid of him, a 10-year delay charge is being filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34030	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Sach will respond. [[Intruder Pernar: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34031	My dear colleague here is one of the reasons why I didn't want to report on this subject today. But I thought it was my duty and my duty as a council representative to speak, but I didn't want to talk about this issue just so we don't bring it down on me, on my case because I don't think it's right for me to talk and defend myself here. I'll do it where that place is. And with all due respect, you don't have to defend me, I don't need anyone else to defend me. The MPs are also citizens of the Republic of Croatia and everyone else, and all the laws apply to us as well. However, I think we should always stick to more standards, so we should always be an example of ourselves. And the fact that I've had immunity removed, which is being prosecuted against me with this point today, has absolutely nothing to do with it. And immunity doesn't protect us from prosecution. It protects but I don't think anyone should hide behind it. He doesn't even protect us from traffic violations as counterpart Culey earlier today said he may have had immunity so as not to pay a speeding ticket the other day. Immunity is something we need to be allowed here for freedom of speech. I really didn't want this to come down to this today. I would not comment on it, and here I would ask you to somehow manage to absorb it from any further debate concerning any branch, meaning for the DORH or now for changes to the CAP or any other law or report that will come into this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34032	Thank you very much. I especially thank you for reminding you again that we need to concentrate on the law, not on individuals, on individual cases, but on the law. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34033	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Sauch's in my own replica of how not to replicate everything you've been saying, and you've mostly talked about yourself. I'm going to say what Mr. Bosnjakovic said that by going to prisons, he found all of them out there who are not guilty, they're all innocent. You're talking about your maltene case that all of us should be compassionate in that case and maltene mental pain you experience on your skin. Reko, I have my own case and I can say I'm not happy with the DORH's work either. But I'm proud of my case, although often from your benches, especially colleagues, Stazic call me and attack that I'm the vandal who broke the social property of the state Cyrillic inscriptions that don't stand at all, and it's not true, despite the videos and witnesses and everything. But I'm proud of my work again, and I can't wait for that court to go there and prove it. And even if it were the opposite and if I did prove it, I'd be proud anyway. But I don't understand that you've been telling us through your case here for ten minutes. And in what way should I address you on the subject when you have lied to your case? There's no money, and no one's to blame. Well, someone's got to be guilty. At least bring her in first, so you prove yourself innocent in court. At least that's how you did it. That's my case, too. I've been charged with 10 articles, and I don't know any of them, my colleague Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34034	The answer to the esteemed representative, Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34035	I don't know, I mean, you obviously either didn't listen or you're just being mean. So, in no word did I mention my case, nor did I ask anyone for sympathy, least of all of you. So I'm not asking you for sympathy or compassion or protection or anything. Don't compare, actually, no, let's not discuss it at all. I mean, you've just had this debate. You're the one who pulled this subject. I confessed to touching on a benign thing that you mentioned that I didn't know you paid a speeding ticket, that's something quite a tenth. But this place where you're on top of me now, so you're reopening it now. Here's where you judge me now, and I've just replicated my colleague Pernar, and I've told him that I would ask nicely that any debate on any topic related to the operation of the DORH or the amendments to the law not come down to my case. Yes, I will seek my justice. Not that I'm going to seek justice, but I'm going to answer for it to the intended institutions. I didn't come here to defend myself or ask you for anything. And you be at least so little fair and correct and I don't know, stick to some basic elemental human honesty. As for what you last said, that's the problem. The fact that a person is first guilty today and then later has to prove his innocence instead of being the other way around. That's the only thing you get right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34036	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34037	Thank you, Vice President. I called in a replica of you to point out a problem. You mentioned that it would be good to have laws, laws should be applied. We don't apply them, and that's why we have a problem. And there is a very important education for all who are employed in the judicial system, so it is good to mention to this occasion that in the last 5 years no trainee is employed in the justice system. And that is immediately the question of restoring people who are employed in the judicial system, so it would be good to hear today from the secretary of state whether this year has finally started hiring trainees in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34038	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. This really had nothing to do with the law. Right? We can really extend the law to everything then. Here's a colleague of Sauch's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it has something to do with the law, given that one of the reasons that's listed for the amendments and additions to this law is just to dissipate the State's Attorney's office. So if the state's attorney's office is relieved, then obviously there's a lack of capacity. And I don't think my colleague Jovanovic meant anything on purpose here. I think it's good and desirable to anticipate resources in the state budget, to take new young people into the State's Attorney's system those who want to do the job. This job is neither glamorous nor beautiful. It's a very ugly and hard work and I believe there are a lot of colleagues who would rather be here than state lawyers, and something is easier to do and something better is paid. If we already have young people who have graduated from law school who want to take this ungrateful job, I think the state should find money to do so and that it should restore these personnel and educate them, that it should prepare them. Because it can always happen to us at some point that one part of the U.S. Attorney's office just goes away, you can't keep people. And here's if my colleague Djakic lets me finish. So you can't keep people, you can't chain them. I think it is not a bad thing to work constantly on new educated state lawyers who will defend the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the part which is their job, therefore, criminal persecution. By forgetting that the DORH isn't just a prosecution. There's a civil-law department. That's definitely not the point right now. It's a topic for another debate. But what my colleague Jovanovic said, I definitely agree with him. And when we do the next state budget, I hope there will be some more resources to strengthen the capacity of the State's Attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34040	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34041	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, today, we are repealing the law of confiscation of illegally acquired property. And we now, as that law, are going to be incorporated into another law and it is supposed to be implemented. We will prevent corruption, punish wartime profits, punish illegal conversion. So we are promised that we will finally experience what we have dreamed of since practically Croatia was declared an independent state. However, we will not because this law was not implemented, nor will it be implemented. Here's the official statistics. So in 2010, the amendment of the Constitution was voted in such a way that it was prescribed not to obsess over war crimes as well as crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation committed during the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, the war situation and the direct threat of independence and territorial integrity of the state. The property benefit achieved by or related to these works will be deducted. Here, that's what this law used to say among other things that we're ending today. According to data from the Ministry of Justice from that amendment to the Constitution in 2010 to 1 January 2015, a total of 17 criminal proceedings were initiated for 5 years due to the crimes committed by war profits. Six criminal offences for the conversion process means one a year. Three procedures for crimes committed in the privatisation process means one every two years. And ten procedures for crimes committed from the process of conversion and privatisation. In all, those criminal proceedings have brought three final judgments, one acquittal and one acquittal for the crime of war profit and one acquittal for a criminal offence in the process of conversion. So in six years, in five years, three convictions of which two were liberating. In the only legally concluded procedure in which one person was sentenced for the crime of war profiting, the property benefit of 3 million kunas was taken away. Here, therefore, we have learned that in Croatia war profiteers of transformed and privatized criminals have a total of one. One man did it. And now I really have to ask the entire Croatian public whether we should smile at one such report and at a law like this, or if we all cry bitterly over the law-making judiciary together, and enforce the law, and today re-negotiates laws, supplement laws, changes laws, and there is absolutely nothing in practice. If you want a report from the State's Attorney's Office for 2015 on the application of the Law on the Non-Depreciation of Crimes, etc. 47 persons have been brought against them, and a first-degree ruling has been reached against those 47 persons. 6 complaints were also filed against the verdicts already passed, so 3 complaints ended with acquittals, and 3 persons were returned to the first-degree trial, which means that in 2015 no assets were seized but not one single criminal. How is that possible? How is that possible? What kind of justice? Well, we don't have justice at all. There is no justice in Croatia, there is no justice. And you know why? Because it is likely that those who run this same judiciary and who pass these laws would have to condemn themselves. Well, that's very awkward, isn't it? And that's the main reason why all these laws whatever they're called, whatever their effective name is, whatever effective explanation they'll never give any results in practice. I am also sorry that Minister Sprlje was only here for a short time, and after that he left the debate because among other things I would like to ask him about this illegal property benefit, how much did the Republic of Croatia State's Attorney's Office reveal, for example, secret accounts both in the Republic of Croatia and abroad? Because these secret accounts are written every day. Here, last night it was written about secret accounts involving Croatian companies. We remember the Panama paper where Croatian companies were also mentioned. Here I have in my hand a statement of the day at the Municipal Court in Rijeka on 20 March 2015. This was given to me by the Rijeka Resistance Movement, in which a former government employee therefore testifies that Mr. Slavko Linic has a secret account in Italy. He usually reported in his property card that he didn't have any property. On these secret accounts, a detailed print-up of information was received by the State's Attorney's Office in 2016. He didn't do anything until today. Don't get me wrong. I believe it's just a drop in the sea, it's the tip of an ice dream. Of course, you do not have to doubt that the woman who noticed this and who presented evidence and testified in court was fired. Is there even a question about that? I was talking today about the addition of article 43a to how the victim must be artificially, not a suspect. Now, watch what she testifies in court, and I quote that it would not have been if I had invented something: “I led two judicial disputes before this court, first of all for mobing, and in connection with that court dispute between July 2010 and June 2011, I was a total of four times psychiatricly trained, four times a psychiatric expert, and they were a professional expert in reporting the theft of state property. And everything to determine if I'm mentally ill. All these articulations were ultimately in my favor and then the judge suggested that my husband be a psychiatric witch. So the psychiatrist's expert said she would not artificialise him because he is not a party in the process but regardless of the matter, a conversation was published with him." Here's the court's official record. So in Croatia where there is no law on mobbing, in which there is no law on whistles, when someone is trying to report a crime to him is a psychiatric witch, here we have heard four times and his family is chicanized, the cancellations are shared, and from all that to the state budget as we heard it was returned 3 million kuna from one person. And it is said, and I believe that you have also heard and I believe that it is even true that billions have been brought out of the state through an account in Liechtenstein, through an account in Monte Carlo, through offshore companies that have been legally published in the Croatian press for years, on virgin islands, in Malta, in Cyprus. How many kunas have been returned to the Croatian state budget? That's the key question that interests the citizens. So it's not about us breaking the Property Use Act today, so we formally transfer it to some other law whatever his name is about criminal proceedings, or I don't know what kind of name he has, but it's about the law being implemented and he's not being implemented, and the Croatian citizens know it. And all those who are here now discussing some articles and some effective terms know that Croatian citizens are looking at them and not believing them. I repeat, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, I'd like him to tell me something about it, and if anything else we can at least say in front of the Living Wall that if we ever get to work safely on finding those secret accounts and we won't need any law. We can end them all, but we'll get on it, and we'll definitely get back because we weren't involved in this crime, and we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34042	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34043	Dear colleagues of the Bunjac, I listened to your presentations and while you were speaking, I listened to how justifiedly you express the fact that they are shocking in themselves. So the message that the Croatian judiciary sends to people who deal with crime especially the worst type, transformed, privatized and war-profit, is, it doesn't matter what you sell to the enemy at the time of the war, it doesn't matter what you buy from kuna factories, it doesn't matter what you've ruined hundreds of thousands of jobs, it's a message that's being sent. And the question arises, logical question, as long as the Croatian people remain silent, as long as you watch this show and the farce in the Parliament, as long as you watch calmly as you run out of anything, yelling at you in every way you can and telling you that you have to pay for someone else's thief, or you know who? Get up, people of Croatia, people of humanity wake up, people of mankind, stop watching you cut like a sheep, how they work with you, how they make fools of you, and how they do cannon meat for some foreign wars we have nothing to do with. Listen to what Mr. Bunjac is saying, the Croatian peoples open their eyes, the Croatian peoples come to their senses and realize that those who should protect you are working for those who are destroying you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34044	Thank you. It is likely that the esteemed representative of Bunjac will answer, although I do not know why, because it is an appeal to the Croatian people and not to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34045	Thank you very much. Here I'm going to answer here today, my colleague Bulj was talking about that most MPs who are normally of the age for this are adequate, were involved in the Homeland War. And I'll tell you the same thing, we've been involved a lot of people, and we remember what it was like, I'll tell you. ... We got good food, we got 20-year-old cans of JNA, the uniforms were the same as some of them combined in Croatian at once, we had a $10-dollar kalashnikova, and with that we fought, and only 20, 30km behind our backs came the helmets and hats from Switzerland, from abroad, from Germany, from Austria that we never saw. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Never, beautiful uniforms, beautiful weapons, beautiful food, we've never seen that before. And how much has now been taken away from the property benefits of war profiteers in... the year? One asset benefit, 3 million kuna. And it's not, it's not for nothing when they say, when there's a single saying, it's kind of stuck to my ear, you know what's worse than the ones that attacked Croatia? Those who profited in the defense's torture, they're worse. And there was a lot of them and we don't know their names today, we don't know. All we know is that some people have the opportunity to spend their summers in the Caribbean and the Mauritius, drive yachts, kill five people, and never end up in court, or jail. Such people exist and that is the sadness in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34046	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34047	Honorable and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll ask you a question. The question to you, but also to the entire Croatian public, will these amendments to the law be sanctioned by the worst possible crime? And I will read to you what this is about, he says, "How is Bajic protecting Cermak and covering up oil smuggling to Serbs during the war. The strange questions of the deputy of the County State Attorney's Attorney's Office are nothing but the manipulation of the DORH and the desire to find the reason for the rejection of any war profiteers' guilt. It turns out that if the criminal returns of Croatian citizens do not contain the exact number of bank accounts or the exact number of dollars stolen or euros in those accounts, the application automatically goes into the basket." Note this “after our inscriptions on John Cermak and his“ dealings ” that have brought him great wealth daily, readers with new evidence of the cloudy general’s affairs appear to us especially during the Homework. So we also heard from Sasa Radovic of Pula who, five years ago, filed criminal charges against Ivan Cermak for the crime of helping the enemy, undermining the military and defence powers of the state, and abuse of office and authority. Since the Law on the Depreciation of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes of the Conversion and Privatisation Process was in force, Radovic hoped the DORH could examine his allegations, but then Mladen Bajic was known for protecting state officials and ended up in his drawer. As a volunteer of the '91 Homeland War. '95. For years, I consider the main instructor of martial arts Special Forces Chief Staff of the CROMAC and the SIS officer a high-issue supply of Serbian tanks with Croatian oil that killed my compatriots during the Homeland War. The undeniable notor fact that, as the chief logistics officer of HR, Ivan Cermak is the most responsible person for these crimes based on which he has acquired millions of gains by abuse of position and authority. The knowledge of the above is based on official documents and on a series of public publications that have never been denied and on talks with the defenders. Following a firm belief that a number of undemanded public publications were mentioned, an evidence of high treason filed a criminal complaint with extensive documentation and witnesses. However, two years after the criminal application was filed, he received a letter from Deputy State Attorney Daniela Pajic. Her questions to which he should have provided further clarifications were so addressed that they were impossible to answer. The answers could hardly be given by Obama's national security agency. The first question would be how Ivan Cermak would be the head logistics officer of HV, i.e. in that function, would have contact with oil. Which accounts Ivana Cermak is specifically concerned with, and which account according to my allegations was the sums of millions, where these accounts are and in which banks. In his response, he reminded Deputy Pajic that killing our defenders is an indirect crime, and for all the allegations from the criminal application, he argued that they are based on relevant documents, statements by senior officials, Mesic, Manolić, Tus, Borkovic, Young Hawk, many defenders, and by a series of public and undetermined publications in the press and on the internet. From the data provided, in particular, from Stipe Mesic's statement at a testimony in The Hague in '97. "Beware of the quotes, "through Valentić I knew that Abdic was getting large amounts of fuel from INA in Zagreb. Abdic fought against the BiH Army. I've been told that a ton of fuel in the tanks is going to the Serbian side. This surprised us because we fought Serbs, while supplying them with fuel. It's obvious it's INA oil. Secondly, a convoy of Croatian oil tanks moved from Split and Ploč to rebel territories where the distribution was controlled by war criminal General Manilo Milovanovic. There are a number of published information on the Internet, but the best description is given by Globus from 13 September 2007 oil used to come to tankers in the northern port, so the INA terminal was covered in trucks that drove the Split-Livna-Banja Luka route with Croatian plates being removed in Livno and put on Serbian plates to avoid wasting time with formalities and customs. That was the west route. And the eastern route went towards Split-Capljina-Trebinje, the tables changed in Capljina from where fuel was distributed to Montenegro and Serbia. The total value of billions of dollars, about five, was sucked out of only the Serbian economy at a time while on the streets of Belgrade, a liter of five marks was sold from the canister." What do I want to say to you ladies and gentlemen? The worst cases of crime are not processed even though the laws exist. And we here are trying to give the public an idea that we are fighting crime or that the state institutions are doing everything they can to stop it and that citizens are trusting us accordingly. However, dear citizens in this country are protected, the laws are passed, changed and abolished as on the conveyor belt, but continuity is always the same, and that is that there is no justice. Citizens don't care how many papers we're going to have on the table, how many new laws we're going to pass, how many old ones we're going to cancel or the existing ones change, the citizens are wondering if there's gonna be justice, whether crime will be punished, whether war profiteers will be sanctioned. And from everything we've had a chance to see so far, it's obvious it never will. And instead of top state officials fighting what I've mentioned, it means serious crime, calling on the DORH to investigate, what do they do? They deal with how to help Ivica Todorovic another man who out of this famous transformation and privatisation came out of it in fact as a millionaire, as a multimillionaire and now on his sad fate Malta not our government officials such as the grandmother's nicknames cry and wonder how to help that man, how to save Agrokor etc. My question is again for the Croatian people, as long as you watch this circus in Parliament, as long as you look at that farce pretending it's none of your business, as long as you support politics and politicians who have dirty money, bloody money in their hands that have betrayed their country? Because if the enemy attacks my country can understand him, he has his motives, but the domestic traitor, I can't understand him, I condemn him, and he disgusts me more than the enemy. To the enemy, a man can shake his hand but to a domestic traitor, a servant, a vase that systematically, deliberately, and in fact, I would dare even say and irretrievably destroy my own country cannot forgive him. I therefore call upon citizens to look at such debates as this law to ask themselves what is the future of their country if the authorities remain those who have brought us into this state, the state of despair, misery, indifference, and what is worst of all hopelessness. It is my desire for Croatia to be a legal state once, for crime to be truly processed. Unfortunately, however, it seems that none of this will be done and willfully by MPs in the parliament because they are not those who decide by the will of the people who have decided to support those political parties who support crime at the highest levels. The Croatian people are the most responsible for all the crimes that have occurred in our country because they have tolerated them with their silence, their inactivity and their participation in evil. Because the one who votes for evil, who votes for crime, who votes for those who paint tunnels, for those who sell oil to Serbs during the war, for those who sell banks to national banks, who sell domestic banks to foreigners and those, watch out for those who sell companies at phone sessions of strategic value to invaluable value. Those who move a strategic company sign of strategic importance from them and put them on a drum like and sell them like I would dare say apples or mandarins on a salary. Dear Croatian people, please open your eyes, stop talking, stop going to this farce because it's about you, about your destiny. Croatian people, I am your part, I come from you, and it is my desire that you and I be free people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34048	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Branimir Bunjca, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34049	Thank you very much. You, Agent Pernar, have spoken to the Croatian people, and that is essentially the only correct way to speak to whom you can speak at this time because we have seen that so-called today. The opposition supports HDZ's unification of the debate, they supported it. So three important laws, three crucial laws for the fate of the Croatian people, they supported the unification only to complete the debate as soon as possible so as not to discuss it. The same opposition, alleged, for every European directive that comes in, raises its hands together with HDZ. We hear these objections, I don't know if we should talk to the Prime Minister and achieve some kind of fellowship. We hear I don't know how to leave the three ministries to the HDZ presidents elected. And you really have to wonder if you can even talk here about parliamentary deputies. They seem to be in the same party. Here I am, now I've mentioned the case of former Deputy Prime Minister Linic of 2015, now he's in HDZ power and are they processing him? No, I don't. They're protecting him like he's theirs. And why is that? Because they know if they don't protect him then the SDP will give them the same measure at some other level for theirs. Here these days we've heard that I don't know the Minister of Construction doesn't dare clean up crime because it counts on a coalition with the CNS. It's publicly said stuff. And no one's responding! No one's denying it! What are we talking about? Only citizens can change this situation, no one else. That's what it's about, that's the thing that everyone should finally open their eyes to and figure out what it's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34050	Thank you. Although it wasn't a replica, the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34051	Dear Comrade Bunjac, many shocking things have been happening to us. So we have a case that one person, the minister, has signed the reconstruction of houses in Gunja by the amount of 1700 euros per square. Is it worth it? Is the cost of rebuilding the houses in Gunja really 1700 euros per square? If I'm not mistaken, the Minister threw her right now. Okay. Then Cobankovic will say that the building in Planinska was worth as much as it was worth and that it was not overpaid. The directors of public companies who did business with FIMI Media will also say that FIMI Media's services were so valuable and that is the modus operand of this corrupt system, this nakaradna system that leads the whole country to ruin, and our people disappear. And again, Mr. Bunjac, I wonder how the Croatian people can listen to your words, listen to my words, and stay indifferent and go to the polls regularly and vote on those who have destroyed his past, who are destroying his future and who will not let him, in fact live his life in peace and joy. Since this policy, since our people have been destroyed like this, no more smiles on the street, no smiles on the trams, no smiles on the buses. There's only fear and there's only plotting and there's only trouble actually on the faces of our citizens. I wish that would change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34052	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34053	Your Honor, Vice President. I'm about to read you something you like to hear. Croatia sees a lot of miracles, but it finds no strike for so many Judass. You were talking about domestic traitors, you were talking about everything. I even like you in your presentation. I support you almost 99%, you won't believe it. I'm just surprised that you and I are getting in a fight with so many of our colleagues. I see that you're loved here in the assembly almost as much as I am, but we have at least one common anger, it's that we don't have hair in that same language, so then we give everyone what goes on to it, we don't hide anything. You spoke of domestic traitors, so this is the biggest problem in our country in our Croatia. These domestic traitors have marked our Croatia since the former Yugoslavia since '45. These domestic traitors who terrorised their Croatian people along with the enemies of the Croatian people until '91. Then it's '91. When they didn't see what the outcome of the Homeland War would be, they let the Croatian defenders fight with their eternal enemies to the Serbs, you can think, although they used to be allies in some time, and while we were so little torn up, they robbed our country nicely. They just re-scheduled the resources back into their deep pockets, so by the time we got back from the battlefield, what did Mr. Bunjac say, those ten-dollar Romanians I didn't even want to look at those guns, zero points were regretted by those who wore them, besides all those tycoon war profiteers, the robber we can thank today for this country? Some infants say, perhaps Perkovic and Mustac, who were once again protected by one party in both Croatia and Munich to protect them from talking about them. So we've had one of those since '45. And their heirs wash their brains, wash the gold out of our rivers and wash the Croatian kunas out of our pockets. Comrade Pernar, you're right. We can have coffee whenever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34054	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34055	Mr. Culey, I'm impressed by your comment, and the man really wonders he doesn't really see any strikes for so many Judass, the pan is the situation in our country, such a situation unfortunately in our society. And a society where there is so much Judah, and not that there is no shrill, has one single verdict, such society is doomed to self-destruction and ruin, and at the same time a corrupt medium, corporate media and state television convinces the people and the general public to lead us to a paradise in the future, that we are better off growing only because there are citizens who are fleeing on buses, trains and planes of our country, so they have no need to repeat these fairy tales of growth all the time. And those fairy tales are a lie. It is true, Mr. Culey, that soon comes real estate tax, a tax that will actually destroy the Croatian people, a tax against which you and your colleagues from HDZ have spoken against him for years and all the arguments that you have spoken then against the real estate tax I accept, I agree with them. However, as in that "Life Farm" of Orwell when you came to power, the first thing in your tax reform that you decided to do was to introduce a tax on real estate, disbursement the Croatian people, and unfortunately you just voted in favour of the introduction of that tax, and instead of getting rid of the money from these Jews that you mentioned that robbed the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34056	Thank you. After this strict adherence to the subject and many true allegations about the introduction of real estate taxes, now the next individual debate will be a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34057	Thank you, Vice President. That's enough already, so I'm going to try to shorten my debate since it's already time-consuming. What I am saying is that all of us who deal with politics when they ask us why we do politics, among other things, almost all of us, say that our goal is to ensure that our work, our laws that we make sure that Croatia is a country of free people, that Croatia is a society that is just, that it is a legal state. And that takes, say, three foundations, one is the political will, the other is the legislative framework, the third is the institutional framework. When we talk about political will, it's also showing our relations in the Parliament, our conversations, our discussions. So let's say that when we attack colleague Mrak Taritas by quoting a convicted drug dealer who used cocaine to pay prostitutes, it certainly is not a credible way of contributing to Croatia as a society of free people, a society in which we politically ensure that the legislative and institutional framework contributes to that goal of free society, the rule of law and the society of justice. So if we show this political will, and most of all we show with these exceptions that only confirm the rule, we can ask ourselves whether Croatia has a legislative and institutional framework that ensures the society of justice and the rule of law. Well, it's the easiest way to verify this through the number of judgments legally condemned and the total value of the assets seized for the unlawfully acquired property benefit. We heard today here and a colleague of Bunjac has done very well and plastically that it turns out that we do not have a legislative and institutional framework for a successful fight against crime and corruption. If we look through history from the day Croatia became independent, we can divide it into three stages. The first phase was from the 1990s to 2000, in fact, the worst stage in the development of Croatian society when corruption reigned, when economic crime reigned, when 400,000 jobs disappeared, when a third of the companies in Croatia disappeared and when nothing actually happened. In 2001, phase two begins. The second phase is the phase when USKOK was established and it lasted sometime until 2008 when the legislative and institutional framework for the fight against crime and corruption is slowly beginning. And during that period, as that framework was created, double tunnel painting happened again, FIMI MEDIA, refmorkers, and then stage three begins. So in the third phase, this economic crime should also be sanctioned from the 1990s to 2000s and the construction harmony, FIMI-MEDIA and everything else. And that's when the jump vertical was established. So on paper, everything's fine. So we would never have been able to open or close chapter 23 if we hadn't gotten the green light that said, that you have a legislative framework in Croatia, you have laws, you have an institutional framework, especially after the establishment of the jumping vertical. But there are no results. No results and that's what we all need to worry about. And that is why every attempt to improve this legislative framework and I am thus experiencing today's debate is an attempt in the right direction. So when are we gonna be able to say that we're successful? We will be able to say when really crimes and corruption in Croatia are not worth it. They will not be paid only if they are discovered, if there are sanctions, if all people in Croatia are willing to resist crime and corruption, only if there is a society that condemns crime and corruption and that conviction must be swift, it must be likely and determined and the judgment of a powerful must also mean a convincing punishment. Penalty means confiscation of illegally acquired assets and so far there is no punishment. So, on the other hand, crime and corruption will pay off if they remain undiscovered, if they remain unpunished, and if society suffers peacefully. Unfortunately, I have the impression that this other situation is prevailing at the moment. So crime and corruption in Croatia remain unpunished and a significant part of society suffers peacefully. Therefore, all the discussions that were here today as a contribution to first reading should contribute to getting a better legal framework in the second reading, but what counterpart Orsat Milenić said today, it is very well elaborated and colleague Roscic, I think we should move towards a completely new legislative framework for which we should not be hasty. We can give ourselves our entire mandate to finally, in the last year of our term of office, bring a brand new Code of Criminal Procedure, a law that will ensure that we get that no one in Croatia can unpunish Croatian citizens, Croatian budgets, and on this basis achieve an unlawful benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34058	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The Honorable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash is first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So today, my name and name were mentioned on several occasions, you always have a lot more important in life about who's talking, who's talking. There's also a real rebuilding of houses in the County of Posavina that I'm proud of and I don't let anyone pollute it, I won't let anyone pollute that job because in a year we've restored 2,000 houses. Children in County Pavina went to school the same way when they started all over Croatia even though they told me it would be impossible, we were working under inhuman conditions. And the same way when you look at it is a building, it has rising growth in Croatia, one of the reasons is the County Posavina where all the companies that applied got the job and the same subject of public procurement was the price and they all worked at the same price and I am proud of that job. However, of course, the time is local elections and everyone is using the opportunity to pollute someone's job or character and work, being in the Assembly is incomparably easier than being in executive power, so I, believe it or not heard that for the money I earned there, I bought a house in Malinska worth 700 thousand euros, it's a cottage of my mother-in-law and mother-in-law that's since '78. So I decided to sue and quit. And something that, in fact, that gives a picture of everything I heard, they told me you gave me a job for your brother. And I say I don't have a brother, he says it doesn't matter but it sounds good. So there's a lot of work that's about County Posavina that doesn't matter, but it sounds good. But I'm not letting that job get polluted because thanks to this job and the County Posavina, no one has moved anywhere. And what your job says more than a thousand words, which is when people who live there say that space never looked what it looks like. Therefore, there will be more harsh words and there will be all these words, however, that will pollute the work you are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34060	Thank you very much. You're colleagues of Mrak-Taritash aware that it wasn't about the subject or the replica of a colleague. I understand your need to say it but it had nothing to do with it and I don't know what's going to answer it, but it obviously wants something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34061	Yes, colleague Reiner, Vice President, Chairman. Just by keeping the dignity of politics, politicians and all of us in this assembly and correct debates, and not by throwing some quasi message from a portal funded by the underworld to harm colleagues in the campaign, it will not contribute to the reputation of politics or politicians, nor to us MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34062	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34063	In your presentation, you made the transition, I think it is legitimate to discuss the law according to which model we can establish a tolerated society. I agree with the fact that it is only possible to establish a tolerated society if we respect other people's truths, other people's values and other people's working practices. And other people's truth, other people's value and other people's working practice should not be contrary to the law, just as some further clarification of your exposure and I see exactly the contribution of this law not only to the scope of its action but also to being able to produce positive effects in society, discourse and also in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34064	The answer of the honourable representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34065	We are all faced daily in meetings with citizens to answer their question and one of the most common questions is why you allow Croatian citizens, Croatian companies, Croatian budgets to be robbed unpunished. When these people will be responsible for the misdemeanors they're doing. And that's what's most difficult to answer. So why our legislative framework, why our institutional framework is not effective enough for every robbery, every crime to be punished and sanctioned. As long as we don't make it, we won't be successful politicians either, and there really shouldn't be division on the left and right. There should only be division of good and bad, and I hope that all of us in this assembly will ensure that we pass good laws, laws that will ensure that justice is swift, effective and that no one can finally steal unpunished in Croatia and that has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34066	Thank you. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34067	Following is the vote on the points under discussion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, No. P.Z.E. No. 78. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act is hereby adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 110 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34566	Now we would move to - Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 106. Proposal for a Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and their reports were received at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Honorable Sanja Misevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal to amend the Penal Code concerns the transposition of European directives. It shall be intervened in two articles concerning the Directive itself. The first concerns the criminal offence of the abuse of privileged information which becomes a blank criminal offence by this intervention. Therefore, in its legal description it refers to the capital market regulations. This intervention extends the circle of possible perpetrators of criminal offences, new models of the conduct of the crime are prescribed, and criminal justice sanctions are increased. A qualified form of criminal offence is also introduced. As regards other interventions, it relates to the criminal offence of capital market abuse. This offence has already been a blank criminal offence from before, and intervention extends the actions of committing a criminal offence to other activities or procedures affecting the price of one or several financial instruments or related spot contracts. Other interventions concern nomotechnical harmonisations of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34568	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić appeared. He's gone. You can't change him, he's losing his right to speak. [[I'm sorry, I'm changing it.]] Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Orsat Milenic. He's pulling. Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34569	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here are the amendments to the Penal Code before us. They also mean the implementation of a directive in our criminal legislation. Our Penal Code, as it is known, was made in 2010, the eleventh year. It came into force in 2012 and it is a newer document which, in fact, already during the construction and unification of a number of directives actually adopted by European bodies and, therefore, quite modern law. And here, there have been no numerous changes, as is the Code of Criminal Procedure. The penal code was not changed, but it was one of its changes, and when it came into force, it was actually a united change that occurred during that vacatai legion. Here we can only say that there is an implementation of a European directive that actually protects and integrates certain market protection mechanisms, which is a directive that actually speaks of market abuse and it speaks of two crimes that should be implemented in our legislation. This is quite sophisticated by saying matter and ultimately society develops, forms of business develops, develops and various institutional forms of functioning actually of society. And clearly, there are certain abuses and certain negative phenomena that need to be incorporated into the Penal Code. The criminal law is such a law which requires society to act undesirableally and which conduct actually deserves the condemnation of society as a whole and therefore implements this directive in this Penal Code. It is clear that Croatia as a member of the EU is part of an organisation of countries that must coordinate their legislation, which must make certain parts of the legislation compatible with each other. This primarily refers, therefore, to the transposition and transposition of a directive where it is actually said that it is not desirable when certain privileged information is obtained regarding certain emission units, whether or not they are shares, whether they are some other instruments. If someone has such privileged information to abuse it in a way or to buy it, or to force someone to buy it or to enter some false information into the media space and thus indicate whether or not someone is going to suffer serious damage in the business, and in fact someone is going to make a huge profit. So we have in fact in these two crimes, we have in principle and a prescribed circle of persons who can commit such acts. That's what they're called. insiders, these are management members, members of supervisory committees, management bodies, therefore in certain institutions. And the other order is actually them so I tell insiders where there's a bigger circle of people. That's why we don't see anything in this law at the HDZ club. We believe that this is an amendment to the law that will contribute to the protection against abuses that are possible on our market and it in some ways actually regulates matter better than is regulated today. Therefore, here is the HDZ club that supports the adoption of this law, of course welcome that it is in the first reading and that, until the second reading, if there are other issues that need to be discussed, but it seems to us that the law is credible in terms of transposition of the EU market abuse directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34570	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34571	Now, since you mentioned, Your Honor, Commissioner Bošnjakovic, I would like to point out that one of the biggest frauds that has been carried out in this way is certainly the case of the Swiss franc. So someone knew in advance, knew there was going to be a change of course, and then, through eight banks, it was allowed not only to offer these loans, but to drag people by the hand to force these loans and that they conspired with citizens who didn't get out of misery until today. If the citizens didn't know that, in any case, this country's institutions knew that, first of all, I think of the governor of the National Bank, that the same fraud was committed in the mid-80s in Australia, and that the Australian judiciary has annulled all these loans and damaged the citizens of Australia, primarily farmers and then banned them. Now I wonder if this transposition of the European directive that comes when the full damage is done or is it too late, is there any hope that at least retrograde compensation will be achieved for people who have suffered catastrophic damage by taking these loans, means by imposing these loans, or will someone finally be responsible for this trading of information, that they will know information that can bring benefits to someone, and other damages, and that the state is not doing the job that should have been done at the same time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34572	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34573	Dear counterpart Bunjac, did anyone know or did not know it should be established in the procedure to determine it, and you and I here can only witness such an ex-cathedra. It's much more complex and much more extensive than our impressions of it. So here is if you have any knowledge and there are state bodies to work on, and this Croatian law has passed the law, and this seems to me to be one very serious majority that these citizens who have entered these protection loans are to be corrected as much damage as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34574	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34575	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic, it is difficult to actually see me as an advocate as the law is growing more and more, and justice is becoming less and less, as EU directives are simply being adopted on the track, the laws are being amended, however, there is no justice. And what does it mean for a citizen who was robbed by banks by people like Hanžekovic to amend this law? Why, for example, does the Executive Law not change in a way that Croatia will not be El Dorado for Masons like Marijan Hanžekovic, I am interested in that. What's the Croatian people got to do with these directives? And you know what's gonna happen? It will happen to you that there will be these cases that we are now discussing just as a colleague of Bunjac has said that in six years there has been a yearly indictee, and in the end a single conviction. So these are laws that you do, laws for one person, laws that society will never benefit from, and you have obvious crime in front of it you don't sanction, you don't process it, you don't change the laws. If you know that in a couple of years, if I'm not mistaken, seven million vertices, and that the cost of the executive procedure was, say, 600 kunas, so ask yourself, how many of these figures the executive machine swept down, anointed and swallowed, or how many citizens were knocked out of their pockets. Why does this law not change, why do these questions not come to the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34576	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34577	Dear colleague Pernar, the executive law is in the procedure you know that. I believe that in this second reading, you will have certain amendments to show how you see the executive law as it should look. And this more I think it crosses the frameworks of our Rules of Procedure and I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, but people here to mention in the context that they've robbed, that they're thieves, that they're moral freaks or something like that, that I don't think it's rightly higher than the rules of procedure from this pay phone to say those words. Yet there are some bodies involved, and if a thief is a thief then it will be found in a criminal procedure, there will be a judicial verdict, and only then does our Constitution say that we can say to someone that he is a thief if we document it with this. And otherwise this way I think it goes beyond frameworks and decency, but also the Constitution and all that I have to admit that it's very, very sad and ugly to listen to at all, so no matter what you think about anyone I think we should stick to the Constitution, that we should stick to certain norms that are legitimate. And every man has the right to dignity, to honor, clearly if there's something in the process that's been determined, you may choose to call on it, but this is how I don't think it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34578	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And now it's an individual debate of the respected representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34579	Dear ladies and gentlemen, this law or the application of the EU directive will not change anything in the lives of our citizens. When we were entering the EU, our citizens thought that now that we're in, that's when we're in. After we enter, there will be no more situation as it has happened in the past. Citizens thought there would be justice now, now over the Croatian judiciary there will be some other judiciary, legal frameworks and legal norms, and now our problem within ground corruption will be solved. But, of course, that didn't happen. Our judicial system is desperate, as it was before joining the EU, noting that since 2011, the Executive Law has changed dramatically to the damage of citizens, dramatically. And says Mr. Bosnjakovic of HDZ that no one who is not legally convicted of being a thief can be considered a thief or called a thief. However, the person who takes 600 kuna in debt for a kuna is a thief to me, and I believe that as a representative, I have the right to call the Mason Marijana Handzekovic a grampile thief. And if such a thought really should wait for the right word, the rightful verdict, and then we could say that 99.9% of HDZ members are the most honest people because they don't have any rightful judgment or maybe there are, on the fingers of one hand, there may be powerful judgments against their members. And even a powerful verdict against their own party has fallen. These are serious thoughts and our legal system, instead of dealing with it, means why the indictments are such that they fall, why the verdicts are such that they collapse, why the Constitutional Court by political keys makes judgments, releases the guilty. Instead, we have some coordination on the table again, again the EU is on the menu and of all these changes I say the Croatian people have nothing. Every debate in this House is welcome but those crucial debates are gone. The most important debate that should certainly be held is to ask the question why Member States cannot directly finance themselves from their own central banks but rather have private banks as intermediaries in the European Union. In this way, private banks shall have the money from the central banks of each Member State of the interest rate of that same Member State. It's about crime at the highest level, that information everyone knows, but unfortunately, nobody cares. I would like one day the Croatian Parliament to be the place for which when Croatian citizens hear it will say that, I am proud of the MPs. Yes, they have passed the law in my favour, not for the sake of the privileged minority that I have said, as I am led by the notorious Mason Marian Handzekovic, who even sues me and sues ladies and gentlemen for being offended because I have actually told the truth about his character and work, i.e. because I have talked about what he does to Croatian citizens. He thinks it's right. Unfortunately, both HDZ and SDP as the two biggest parties, such a system of enforcement that does not exist, not in the EU, but probably not anywhere in the world, also see it as correct. It's sad, and I often wonder if our people will open their eyes and will they ever say that, we were wrong, that this system of execution was directed against people, was in favor of a privileged minority, etc. Why don't we, say, bring the executive system into line with the EU's executive judiciary that courts have to carry out the tasks and not the public notebooks? Why does the EU directive not come to the agenda or European law if the European Court of Justice says that only courts and not public notebooks can do so, or that under a court of law that gives effect cannot be considered a public notary? Then why does the Croatian judiciary not agree in this case? Why isn't this subject under public discussion? Because the Croatian Parliament, because Croatian MPs protect the interest of the masseary led by Marijan Handzekovic, not the Croatian people. Unfortunately, the people need to know who his enemy is and who he's working with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34580	Thank you very much. Since there was not a single sentence about the Penal Code in what counterpart Pernar was saying, I do not know what the Bunjac will replicate, but here you are, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34581	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, you were saying that every law has its own causes and consequences, that each medal has its own two faces. Here we see here the last time the Prime Minister left the assembly when we spoke, now the minister has gone, and Mr. Bosnjakovic has just escaped because he is embarrassed to listen to what we say, he cannot stand it. He can, his world ends on the Stone Gate. It's his world. And if he only comes to the FINA counter once and listens to what the workers who work there listen for 8 hours, be sure to work very hard on the solution of Croatian citizens. Then he'd be a hundred times as embarrassed as he is right now. And go, look, it's not that hard. Here's your first FINA. It's 200 meters. Sit down, listen to what people are saying. Compare with what Mr. Pernar says, compare what Mr. Bosnakovic says and see what the people think. What he thinks of our justice, of those laws, of the Constitution we've been calling upon all along, of some fineness. 68% of Croatian citizens, according to a scientific study by the Institute of Economics, borrow money to survive. And why, as we parlour balls play, what fineries of the English court. Where do we live? Mr. Pernar is telling the truth, and the truth is unpleasant, at least that's what those who deal with psychology wrote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34582	Thank you. And your replica, which had nothing to do with the Penal Code, will be answered by distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34583	Dear counterpart Bunjac, I think that the people who put the points on our agenda are the people who are excluded from reality, who may live not in the English court but in the Brussels court, who come from Brussels, from Washington, from the World Bank, from the embassies, from the Vienna Court, etc. It's a team that rules Croatia. Unfortunately, the Croatian people chose instead of their representatives, so the representatives of the people to represent them, the elite who are EU directives above their interest. The elite, who are the citizens of the non-essential item of the agenda on the agenda, is the elite that instead of opposing the interest of the masserium serves the interests of the masserium. Someone's gonna say it's harmless company. Marijan Hanžekovic is just one man. I'd even dare say that some of his media calls him a philanthropist, a philanthropist. However, if we see that this is the man who declares on Sunday at 2 a.m. I have created an execution, or an executive system that has not been seen in these areas until today. If such a man can freely trample on human dignity, humiliate the citizens, and with the help of the state, let the citizens wonder where this policy will lead them and whether they will continue to vote in the elections The representatives of the elite and the massearies. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34584	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we didn't really discuss the Penal Code because it was almost out of the question. I'm the one who concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 111. Have a good night. Session adjourned at 17.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-22-0.u34585	Next is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 106. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code is adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 117 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue our work. Hrelja's representative.
