ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24965	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I demand a break on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club on the topic of high arsenic concentration in the waters of Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24966	Thank you very much. The second one raised his hand with a respected representative, Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24967	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on the problem of waste in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24968	Thank you. Anyone else? Dear Representative Krstulović-Opera.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24969	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I am looking for a break to discuss the threat of Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24970	[[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go. Thank you very much. No one else, so I'll see you in 10 minutes at 9.42 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24972	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State, given that here is the subject of the Ministry from which it comes, so here is to pass on to my colleague Secretary of State Chikotić the thoughts I will share. You've all been following the problem brought to us by the people of the Komletins about increased arsenic concentrations in the water they consume, their disdain and their search for a final solution. We all know that concentration in Slavonia is not something new. This is a problem that we have for many years and one of the solutions proposed is exactly the regional waterway of Eastern Slavonia, which has been planned for some twenty years. In one part it was made, but we see that additional efforts need to be made to quickly secure additional resources and help all residents, not only the Komletins, but also other places where this problem arises. In 2015, given that we are EU members, a new rule has entered where limited concentrations are 10 micrograms per litre. However, the transitional period can be very long. In order not to be mistaken, it is not only for three years, but it can be extended to a maximum of nine years. I think it's an unacceptable time to wait for nine years, because the concentrations that have been in these areas go significantly over 50 micrograms. For example, we have 61.8 micrograms in the island. We have in Osijek, with great purification efforts is reduced to 250 micrograms per litre per 34 micrograms. So it's still not satisfying, but that cost and temporary solution that's made possible by purification and not that big. If we look at some of the analyses, it would be between 30 and 40 drops per metre cubic depending on the technology that would be applied. That would be about two and a half percent of the current price, the total cost of about six million kunas. If we see only, and you can all look at the pages of the State Audit, they've audited all the companies that supply water to our area. For example, according to the audit report for the gas pipeline and sewerage, 9 and a half million cubic metres of water were delivered only 5.8 and 36%, respectively, was lost in 2014. Only if these losses were resolved would they be provided with sufficient resources to make up for and actually invest in cleaning systems until the final solution is reached. Until recently, I will point only to the importance of this regional plumbing. One Andrijashite had 611 micrograms per litre. That one Chepin, for example 71 micro grams, was. Therefore, it is necessary to make significant efforts, for example, to seek a solution for 19% of samples in this Vinkovic area. Given that in Vukovar-Srijem County, in Vukovar there is a marking of World Day Water where there will be senior ministry officials, I would urge everyone to try to find another common language about it. Because I have conflicting information, so I think a meeting like that would make a possible solution. We have since 2 March where, at the meeting of the Chiefs of the Island and Mayors of Vukovar-Srijemski, the problem has been presented and there it has been stated that the funds provided by Croatian Waters for a temporary solution have been provided. Following the launch of these problems on 15 March, it was stated that the funds from the Croatian waters were not secured. It is from the director of the water and sewerage of Mr. Drazen Milinkovic. Therefore, in order not to be waiting for what is or is not I suggest that on Wednesday 22 March, I will also send a letter to all meetings of the representatives of the Ministry, regional authorities, the City of Island, the representative of the competent Vinkovci Voda and the sewerage, to see which funds are insufficient, to continue the project of the Eastern Slavonia water line, and to continue in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, given that this is one of the priorities of providing funds in some distribution so that we finally have one visible outline of what is going to happen on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24973	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia's words, the distinguished representative, Ivica Misic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24974	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will try to explain to you the problems of waste in Croatia. You'll tell everything about it known, but there's a lot of silence about it. We know we've been trying for 20 years to solve the waste in our country, but where we are. We stayed at the same point, and we solved nothing. Croatia must deal with this as quickly as possible, we know that EU sanctions are coming toll, and we are where we are, we are not going anywhere. It is amazing that the rulings act as drunk billionaires, that Croatian waste is not considered useful, that they can use it for whatever purposes. If we look to Western countries, here is especially Sweden, which has 99% of the use of waste, and we haven't even started to solve problems yet, we see in the latest reports from Dubrovnik the trash should go to Varazdin. Gentlemen, what have we been doing for 20 years? Nothing at all. If you knew the information when all the electronic waste in the world was recycled, 42 billion tons would be taken out of iron, copper and gold, it would be 50 billion euros. Croatia should treat waste as a resource that can be used to produce electricity and gas, detachment of iron, gold and everything else, copper, and not only that, Croatia would employ thousands of people to do so. So I'm asking you, how long does it take us to try and go into the realisation of that waste? If we let private businessmen solve this problem, I believe it would be resolved in a year. How? Well, gentlemen, we have neighbouring Austria, we have Germany, we have Belgium, here's Sweden that we don't talk about which 99% of the waste is recycled, we go, we see their systems, we make similar or similar, our experts go and see what the best system is. Billions of girls everywhere, and we're ecological, we're a beautiful country, God has given us everything but enough brains to go into the realization of some things that are possible, that just aren't the problem. So why are we making a problem out of everything, and we know that we're going to pay the fines because we haven't done some things, that we could withdraw a lot of money from European funds to solve it, and we're still wandering. Here's normal, keep your mouth shut about the waste, you know, now there's an election, so you wouldn't wave to Split and the other things that happen with us. We're actually working not to work. I'm a businessman, I know what it is, I personally have nowhere to throw a Styrofoam, no one knows where or how. We haven't solved the most basic things in Croatia from garbage cans, recycling yards. That's what any normal entrepreneur would do in a year. What are our mayors doing, what are our administrations doing? Nothing, we write in Parliament, time passes, and we're standing where we were 20 years ago, we practically haven't solved anything, we're stuffing ourselves with garbage like maybe 20 years ago there was and it's cleaner because now we have more electronic waste and iron, and we sort of solved it. Some were taken in private, so they kidnap who will take the cake in this Croatian state. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24975	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andro Krstulovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24976	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear and dear colleagues, all of you who listen to me. On today 17 March 1967, exactly 50 years ago, the text of the Declaration of the title and position of the Croatian literary language was published in the weekly Telegram, this original piece I brought here and signed by 18 Croatian scientific and cultural institutions. Let me remind you, a week before that signifying 17th March in Matica hrvatska, a group of seven literary and cultural workers wrote the text of the declaration, which was also the order to mention it in Miroslav Brandt, Dalibor Brozović, Radoslav Katičić, Tomislav Ladan, Slavko Mihalić, Slavko Pavesic, Vlatko Pavetić. Since then, nothing has been like before. They began to take off their chains from Croatian, even though it was not easy until the 1990s to care, to cultivate, to freely study and to create an independent Croatian official language that was pursued by generations of people, mind people before us. The declaration and the adoption of that declaration is a crucial historical event because it then brought together the Croatian people and Croatian language in a strong misery in defense and everything else that we have inherited in these Croatian spaces. The name, the name of the Croatian language and adjectives of Croatia comes from the Baška plate and the King Zvonimir, which was mentioned in the 1100s, then in the Dobrinj Charter, written with the verb 1230s, in the Istrian divorce of 1275. As a Splitian, I am proud to point out that the father of Croatian literature, the classy Marko Marulić Splić, with his "Judit" 500 years ago, began Croatian literature in the history of Harvatski complexness. The same Marulic, who made it clear to us fellows in these words, “Keep the assemblies, keep things in general, light up in order, law, by justice, honestly, decide at first. Let no passion nor hatred be to you any death, nor be unbiased to you, that your people may speak to you." 170 years ago here, a couple of tens of meters from here in the Croatian National Assembly, more precisely on 23 October 1847 this Croatian House, the Croatian Parliament, on the... Ivana Kukulević Sakcinski, who was in '43. held a famous speech in Croatian. On his proposal, the parliament decided that Croatia's diplomatic official language is to be spoken. Croatian language, we all know it has numerous dialects, local speeches and all of this actually makes up our Croatian language. We must safeguard it equally, cultivate it equally as we must create and learn, cultivate and care and standardise our standard and official Croatian language in order to properly communicate as many civilized peoples do. In order to do so, we must systematically take care of it both at national level through the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as by other institutions, and bring the necessary, significant documents, documents and specifics to guarantee the proper development of our language. Racan's government and then Milanovic and the SDP's government have twice abolished the council for Croatian language norm. Gentlemen and ladies, it can't be an accident and it's not an accident. Why is the roof body so troubled that it thinks and cares about our language? The Croatian public expects this Parliament and the Government to re-establish with prominent institutions that care for our heritage and culture the Council for the Croatian Language Standard, which will care, cherish and watch over the development of our language. Yes, the Croatian language is one of the 24 official languages in the EU, but this must not fool us and put us to sleep and our home will forget to worry about this most powerful mark of our cultural and national identity. The declaration, which was passed 50 years ago, was an important and crucial event because it brought the Croatian people together into a strong, strong misery. We simply must, and here I call upon this place to re-establish the roof body, the norm and the preservation of the Croatian language. I also call on this high home to organise and mark the event on 23 October of this year on the 170th anniversary of the decision of this home to be a Croatian language. That moment and that day I want to see the reprinted speech, the famous speech of our... Ivana Kukulević Sakcinski, who said in his speech, among other things, that cherry is sweet and sweet to the native mother tongue to speak power and garbage. Constant concern for our language is also a guarantee of the preservation of our identity, culture and survival. That's our mission, that's our sacred duty. Today, on the 50th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of the Name and Position of the Croatian Language, let us give recognition to these smart and smart, brave people as well as to all those who previously cared and kept the Croatian language by continuing their mission from here from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24977	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Grmoya has asked for a break. What's this about, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24979	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break in media manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24980	Okay, wide area. Of course I'm setting a break. I'll see you at 12.10, and after your presentation, we'll have a vote right away. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] Here you go. And please take your seats. I'm asking you nicely to calm down so that we can allow our colleagues to say what they want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24982	Here's a colleague, I'm asking for a little silence. My colleague Maras asked me, so I went out to meet him to do the work before you all got here to the assembly. The theme seems to be local, but it's not. It is perhaps one of the biggest media manipulations ever seen in Croatia. So last night, about 19.26 on the morning list portal, an article was published that spreads the video to social networks against MOST in Metkovic. Nowhere in this article is the link to any social network, facebook profile or anything like that, but the Jutarnji list has given videos with the morning list log, meaning open for the first time one daily list, Croatia's most investigative daily paper included in a campaign against a political option in a small town in Croatia. We all know what the reason is, we know that here is the first reading of the HRT Act that Mr. Hanžekovic intends to take tens of millions of kunas a year. After my reaction, Jutarnji List tried to correct that mistake. And I have here, so what the article looks like before my reaction, you see here the morning list logo and then they've put the links on Youtube because of course these links weren't there before or they were spreading to social networks. The article published on the questionnaire that the local HDZ is behind these videos. I don't know if the local HDZ stands, but obviously it stands safe, now whether it is its initiative or in collaboration with the local HDZ, Mr. Hanžekovic and the Jutarnji List. This is something unheard of. And I call on everyone, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to resist this kind of media manipulation, not to give money to the daily lists of powerful men using a medium that should be objectively informed, means that they use this medium to deal with one political option. We will not give up, the HRT Act goes into second reading and Mr. Hanžekovic will not decide who will lead Metkovic, the citizens of Metkovic will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u24983	Thank you very much. Now we will move to the next point, to the intended agenda point, and that is: - The final draft law on the confirmation of the Paris Agreement, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 110, Proposer of acts Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should be discussed in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law on the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received their reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Zeljko Bigovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33738	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, I welcome you all. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement, which obliged the Republic of Croatia, as a party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, to implement measures... greenhouse gas emissions. It is a historical document that will allow a faster global tradition in low-carbon societies and greater resilience to the consequences of climate change. The Paris Agreement sets out the long-term objective of reducing emissions in line with the efforts to limit the global temperature to significantly less than 2 °C and to try to keep it at 1.5 °C compared to the emission level before the industrial period. The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016. So far, 132 of the 197 parties to the Convention have confirmed the Paris Agreement and the EU and its Member States signed it in New York on 22 April 2016 at a high-level ceremony. The Paris Agreement is a major step in preventing and easing climate change. It made progress in relation to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and the 2012 Doha amendment, which until the Paris Agreement were the only legally binding international agreements on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Also, the importance of the Paris Agreement applies to all countries of the world that should contribute according to national circumstances. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the agreement, the Signatory State will establish and adapt its emission reduction targets. Since 2023, a review of the state of progress will be carried out every five years, considering emissions reductions, climate change adaptation measures and support provided. The Paris Agreement obliges all parties... The Climate Change Conventions shall deliver and apply their national specific contributions, with developed countries continuing to play a leading role in the efforts of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The signatories agreed that every 5 years they would approach the revision of national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with a view to achieving ambitious targets. Croatia will fulfil its obligations within the EU. The EU and its members were the first major economies to represent their planned economic contributions, which commit themselves to reducing national greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to the thousand and nine hundred ninety years. The Low Carbon Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia will also contribute to the achievement of the Paris Agreement objectives by 2030, with a view to 2050, which is currently being developed and planned to be adopted in the second quarter of 2017. This strategy will represent a comprehensive economic, development and environmental strategy that will enable the growth of industrial production, the development of new activities, economic competitiveness and job creation through innovation, the transfer of advanced technologies and significant structural changes in all sectors. Given that Croatia is vulnerable to climate change due to its geographical position, the Climate Change Strategy for Climate Change in Croatia is also being developed until 2040, with a view to 2070. Since the Paris Agreement has already been confirmed by the EU by most Member States, and in November 2016 it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to confirm it as soon as possible. It is therefore important to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Paris Agreement by an urgent procedure. Finally, I would point out that the transformation into a low carbon society is also a great opportunity for the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia and for the creation of new green jobs. So, with the ecological dimension of the Paris Agreement, the contained and development component. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33739	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, he's a respected representative of Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33740	Thank you very much, very much fellow Secretary of State, Mr. Vice President. I will just say that and I will personally support this law as I believe and great, or almost everyone in the Croatian Parliament and that I all support the movement towards a low carbon society. But what I wanted to point out here. I would like us in Croatia who are aware that global warming is changing both flora and fauna and that certain things should be perpetuated and that we should have maps of certain species where they live in Croatia, as they migrate. To support one activity of scientists from Croatian universities who wants to make in the next ten years a thorough map so that generations behind us know where certain species are, or where flora and fauna have their own residences. For example, at this point, you have a situation that because of global warming, for example, the smurf will in 40, 50 years in these places where it is now not likely to succeed, but we will have to modify the seed, or it is already being modified. But that autochthonous cream won't grow the way it grows today. So I think it is very important for Croatia to make one card to list everything, to see where flora and fauna dwells in which areas it changes over the years, given climate change. And so I ask you, so it's the second year since these scientists from the Zagreb universities, biologists are looking for support from both the ministries and the funds and the Environmental Protection Agency, but they're failing and the project hasn't moved away from the very beginning. And the minister knows a lot about it, because here with me now he's been attending a projection of how they do it in Canada where the state is behind its scientists so that for future generations we can have quality inputs. Here I am asking you to support Croatian scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33741	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33742	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, these are interesting exhibitions, and I'm afraid of one thing that as always happens in Croatia, everything is written down to detail, but there is no mechanism for implementation. I'm interested in this. Does Croatia have a plan, at least medium-term decarbonisation, prescribed by this International Energy Commission of these exhaust gases? Was that plan made, an action plan? Does Croatia have a plan for energy independence? Because we know that we inherited one mastodon from the industrial revolution. That's what we see up there in the Bosnian-ship refinery, and that's what we have left. Nor do we have the trained workforce to implement what you're talking about, that industrialization. Because we're entering a new industrial revolution, it's robotics, recycling. Recycling what's he doing? Where is the recycling plan until 2020 for Croatia? In the end you did not mention one contract, it was this 1998 Art House agreement from Denmark that prescribed that all the countries had signed what I know, Croatia is one of the signatories, that when it comes to establishing an industrial facility in one area that everything goes to plebiscite, to a referendum. For example. This gas station on Cetina, what do we know and what could it have to do with the environment? And we know what acid rains are, etc. In the end, just to conclude, I'm afraid again that we, we have always got everything super written, and in the end we don't have simple regulations and a mechanism to implement those regulations on the ground. Just one small example, burning weeds in the face, nothing, etc., etc. and those black spots industrially there on the Adriatic coast where you only have 600 tons of chemical waste on the island of Krk from the former state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33743	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33744	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. At its 9th session held on 15 March 2017, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Paris Agreement with the Final Proposal of the Law to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 March 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a home working body and, in the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, pointed out that this law confirms the Paris Agreement in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Paris Agreement sets out the long-term qualitative objective of reducing emissions in line with the efforts to limit global temperature to significantly less than 2% as limited as possible and to try to keep 1.5% of Celsius from the level of emissions in the pre-industrial period. The Republic of Croatia signed the Paris Agreement on 22 April 2016 in New York and compared with other EU members, although the Republic of Croatia has low CO2 emissions per capita, but is of course vulnerable to climate change and is interested in contributing to global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Committee noted and noted that the creation of a low carbon development strategy is under way until 2030, with a view to 2050, which is expected to be adopted in the second quarter of 2017. It will also continue this year with activities to develop a strategy for adaptation to climate change by 2040 with a view to 2070, whose adoption is expected in the second quarter of 2018. In the end, the board unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33745	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to open up the debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first one will speak for the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33746	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore not necessary to stress, in particular, that this is an extremely important law and that the Republic of Croatia is indeed to be confirmed at this point. As regards the importance of the law, the secretary of state spoke, and he touched on the number of points most important to be achieved by law, to which the period covered this Paris Agreement, which was all necessary for it to come into force and what it represents. I'd like to say in this presentation on behalf of the MOST Club, first of all, that the MOST Club will support this law. Of course, it is natural because the ministry led by Mr. Dobrović is of exceptional importance from the position of the club MOST on both the side of environmental protection and the general energy sector that is important for the Republic of Croatia. The State Secretary himself said that the confirmation of this agreement is not only about preserving or responding to climate change, but it is an opportunity for economic growth. It is indeed an opportunity for economic growth if we behave responsibly, if we do not, and the past has shown us that these have not been good paths, if we do not particularly behave in the area of renewable or sustainable energy sources, if we are to determine quotas based on individual interests, it will not be good. So all attention must be paid to Croatia's progress in terms of new technologies, energy production and to make them economically acceptable. As regards the obligations of the Republic of Croatia or of Croatia to undertake for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, there is, above all, an obligation to reduce emissions by at least 40% at EU level, each Member State, and this is done jointly through the greenhouse gas emissions trading system, the common quota system, and also includes 52 RH plants. For emissions and sectors not covered by the ETS system, this is part of industrial processes, the use of solvents and other agricultural, forestry, waste management, household and service products. For Member States and the Republic of Croatia, the annual national quota should not be exceeded. The quota was established on the basis of solidarity between EU Member States, according to which the Republic of Croatia is set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from these sectors by 7% compared to 2005 levels. In the final phase, the creation of a strategy was discussed by the secretary of state. And what is important is to point out once again that the Republic of Croatia is extremely vulnerable to climate change and therefore is extremely important. In addition, the Paris Agreement prescribes the obligation of states to report their efforts on a two-year basis, and informs each other and the public about how they implement their obligations and with a view to ensuring accountability, transparency and supervision. Of course this is very important because every agreement is bad unless there is control of its implementation. The establishment of a comprehensive reporting system to be followed and audited, which will be followed by greenhouse gas emissions, party progress towards meeting long-term objectives, climate change adaptation measures as well as financial and technical support, and the transfer of technologies to developing countries. The guidelines for parties to increase action by 2020 are also called on to deliver their low carbon development strategies by the middle of the century, as we have already said. And the importance of action on adaptation by setting up a long-term adjustment target to strengthen resilience and reduce sensitivity at global level. So let's try this story, let me say a little drag to the realm of real life. So it's an extremely important, important agreement because today's way of life, what we've accepted, I'm talking about the average, despite some countries being more developed, some are less developed. The standard that people today have certainly wants to keep but certainly they want to, that this standard increases. In this sense, the need for energy is important, and in this sense, pollution that monitors such a high energy demand is also very dangerous. Technology is developing throughout history. I remember there ever since I was, when I was a child, often I saw that chickens had light on at night, then I didn't understand, I thought they needed actually light, not they needed the heat that the light bulb was giving, because only 5% of the energy that goes into the light that 95% to useless heat. I'm like a driver and I think I'm an average driver in the Republic of Croatia, as a car driver, or as a consequence of my driving as a car driver is dropped 60 tons, watch out for 60 tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. And thanks to all that is happening today and we are talking about the consumer society and the use of energy in terms of outdated technologies then it is quite certain that this maintenance of the 1.5 temperature rise, actually maintenance, to be between 1.5 to 2°C is an extremely demanding task. Some scientists claim that this will not be possible. And a half-degree increase is extremely dangerous for our planet. And, of course, the third thing, we don't need to ignore it, we're talking about lifestyle, we're talking about technologies that are progressing, so today, today, the degree of usability of certain machines has grown, so here's the diesel engine has come to 50% of the efficiency, so the 50% of the energy we invest in it goes into useful work. There is also something that belongs in the domain, not only in technical sciences but also in social sciences, sociology, psychology, and that is the greed of those who have to tell Marks who have property and capital and ownership on the means of production. And not just according to today's technology, technology that was many years ago could have been produced for example. A car that could be 100 years old, one that could be driven by a regular service for 100 years, means changing oil. However, beware, it is not in the interest of many, it is in the interest of as many product units as possible in the unit of time to make as much profit as possible. And it's just like that. In this area, if I say, and especially because we want progress hard to achieve, we will rather achieve things in such a way as to limit or set such legal conditions that these things can be reduced. And the question is, in fact, quite human and logically, that someone will have a car of 400 horsepower. Here's when a man wonders what a man's car is going to do to a man's car, then we don't really have an answer and we can look for the answer in other areas. But that man says I can buy it and I'll pay. Our attitude as a society must be, you can buy it but we won't let you buy it because you're wasting the energy that others need. And here's the last thing I'm going to say is that when we talk about this rise in temperature and especially this applies to our country, we're a Mediterranean country and in one part it's a rise in sea level. There's a black scenario, I don't want to scare the public here, but I really want to read what's predicted if we don't and if this agreement doesn't come to life. If the earth temperature rises only by 2 °C mountain glaciers just as rivers could slowly disappear. By the year 2100, sea levels could grow by a meter and even 10% of the world's population would be forced to leave their homes and move out into the interior. Many of the island's countries will disappear, and because of the increasing struggle with temperatures, the human species will begin to die out. Ecosystems will be seriously damaged and a third of life on earth could disappear forever. Plants will grow one more time, stop rapidly due to higher levels of carbon dioxide in the air, start to lack oxygen and global warming will get worse. Within 85 years, one third of the planets could run out of drinking water. And if the temperatures rise by 2 to 3 to 40% of the Amazon forest we call the lungs of the planet will disappear forever. The warmer the earth will destroy vegetation and stimulate carbon leakage. The hurricanes will become stronger and cities on the coasts of Australia, Asia, and those in the northern, eastern United States will face total destruction. The Netherlands will tear the North Sea apart and saltwater will begin to enter the underworld and threaten drinking water as well as all the plants that serve us as food. And if temperatures rise by three to four million people will leave the coast around the world, the cities will disappear and the higher ones will become islands. The ice caps on both poles will completely disappear which could lead to the rise of the sea level by 50 metres. Although it will take several hundred years, even thousands of years to do so. As the world's largest producer of rice, grains, corn will lose all the agricultural, this is thought of China, excuse me, will lose all the agricultural power, China is. Summer will last as long as it will cause numerous forest fires and if temperatures rise by 6 °C tropical forests will become deserts, people will mass emigrate to areas where life will be possible, riots and wars for land and food will begin. So political stability depends primarily on economic stability and ultimately on living conditions. So let me get this straight. The MOST Club will support this law, I don't think there's any alternative. The Republic of Croatia is a small country, of course bigger industrial countries will have to achieve more and work harder here, but the Republic of Croatia must do this not only because of the general world or the future of this planet but also because of itself. Because I'm saying apart from the ecological opportunity here, it's also about the economic opportunity of developing new technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33747	Thank you. Your exposure caused several replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33748	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Sagar. The conclusions of the Council of Europe from 23.10.2014 are to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere and this is 27% to 2030 for the circus, with a 27% share of renewable energy sources and an increase in energy efficiency for the 27% circus as well. The European Union, or Member States, has committed to reduce the level of greenhouse gases by 40% compared to the 1990s. A year. As we as Croatia know that the pollution industry, i.e. greenhouse gas emissions, are standing here today in 2030, given that the industry has simply failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33749	The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33750	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Kirin, of course, here I am, when, when the government of the Republic of Croatia was formed, I was a little skeptical, somehow it seemed strange for Minister Dobrović to also be Minister of Environmental Protection and Minister of Energy because it seemed to me in cohesion. However, if we think in the right way, if we start and reform here in this case of education, and now a lot is said about the stem areas that are very important in the Republic of Croatia. The level and quality of innovation, new technologies need to be raised. I think what you're saying may even be an opportunity for Croatia to take a step in certain areas. It may be, it's very important that we bring strategies at the state level, but often we don't implement them, or those strategies are in the drawer, and then we don't even know what we're going to do with them. So, we must be strategically determined as a society. I'm the same principle, we can't be industrial society. We can't keep track of some advanced countries in some things. But there are things where we can be far more advanced, that's first of all these technologies, that's connected to our agriculture that can be leading in this area, the leading branch. But still important are education, and it is important that as little pesticides as possible, as much organic production as possible, and that in agriculture, what is called bionics or what is associated with agriculture. So these are all challenges for the Republic of Croatia. And this doubt that you have now set and how, how to reduce, if we want to grow, if I understand correctly, it is a serious challenge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33751	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33752	Your Honor, an amazing piece of data. That's what people do, open the Internet, open the source of information. We're handling it like no one in history, but let's get down to tactical level. War is won on a tactical level. I repeat again to the gentleman there from the ministry that without the law with my teeth on it there is nothing. It's just a spike for me. Croatia still embraces post-communist confusion. How to explain, say, the Bay of Kastelan down there people pump raw waste into the most beautiful bays there. Look, we've seen these mastodons out there, what's left of Yugoslavia. Long War, Omis, because these people waged war not only against God but against nature. It's gone... the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, we don't have the trained workforce that we, for example, have the energy independence program as South Korea. Here comes a new generation of industrial revolutions, robotics, genetic manipulation, recycling. You're watching HTV yourself. I'd say YUTEL. Yesterday I'm watching a program up there where Vrlika waste is being inserted where septic pits are not being emptied. People burn weeds. Hundreds of wrecks are extracted from national parks, and we're not talking about one pollution, which is the mental pollution of the former system "joint yourself" where it's completely destroyed, totally destroyed. Yeah, just to finish up, I've got 27 seconds left here. I see some redesigned communists waving their hands, where it's totally destroyed, on which a healthy society is based, it's an individual responsibility. Look at the city of Zagreb! No city in the world has as many graphite as this city. Until we do, first it's the law, the law with the teeth for the pyromaniacs, the contaminants this is all for me, the fair Teil, the mere story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33753	Thank you very much. This will be answered by the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33754	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Glasovic, you have touched a very important topic in your replica, which is the area of education, education. So, if this society is facing new technologies, all those challenges are also about reforming the school system, it's important that our young people get out of this system, and they can start this society. It might be a vicious circle if we say so now. Let's make the education system fit the labour market. We don't have a welder now, I think. Of course, he needs to be educated as soon as possible for welders. But we now cannot educate just welders, we must think through our strategies which are interests in the future that this society needs to start from another point. I agree with you in one piece, and you often say that. I am deeply convinced that young people, those who are now studying, who are going to finish school, who are now looking for a job, they can start this society for the better. Because these divisions you're talking about will always be. We'll deal with them. Well, in my opinion, this proposal or agreement is looking to the future. And if we look at the rearview mirror a lot, we won't get far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33755	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33756	Comrade Sagar, you have touched three important topics in your presentation. The first is technological, the second is ecological and the third is this one logoizing or humanist that tries to make sense of everything that's going on. Every idea finds a certain substance or a substance that it will settle into, so when we have a technological mind we make technological progress, when we have an environmental mind then we have an ecologicality, when we have this logistic mind or humanist mind, then it gives us a new view of reality, and in your case it could be manifested in the following way, it's quite evident that, with the geography of the progress that is made in the world and it's not distributed, we also have the geography of the environment, and at the same time we have a geography of ideas. These ideas, in the light of this subject that you've been exposed to, lead us into a situation of understanding that no matter how much man has imagined to himself, he doesn't have an infinite opportunity. By being placed in space, we are forced to stay beside each other. Just because we are in a period of time, we are forced to rely on the civilization, technological and ecological sequence that has led us to do so. Now that you have touched this humanistic dimension in your presentation, do you feel that this humanistic dimension is the dimension of inability or the dimension of infinite possibilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33757	Thank you. The complex question will be answered by the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33758	Yes, thank you. Dear colleague Vučetic, if I were a philosophy student, I would already be in grave danger because I don't know if you'd respond well. But I'm going to go to the area where I'm at home, so I'm going to say this, look when we're talking about human society's affirmation of everything we've achieved, here today is still bright in California the Veteran Light is called, it's originally placed in a warehouse in a fire station in Livermore in 1901, watch out she's still bright today. Webcams that shoot as they shine, two webcams are already on fire, and the light bulb is still on. The residents of that place, it's a tourist attraction and they're keeping an eye out so that the bulb doesn't burn down now and they'll replace it. Otherwise it was manufactured in 1890. Why am I mentioning this light bulb now? We have recently been, I think, last year has been the last year when we threw out these traditional bulbs with a burning thread because we claimed, science has claimed or certain parts of science that this light bulb is extremely harmful because of some of its own, but I'm still wondering if it really is. Does progress and technical science follow the truth from areas of interest that are being promoted? So does anyone have any interest in saying that something's out of date, that something's not right to impose this new one? So in that context, I answer your question, the possibilities actually relative to human fate. Of course I can't give you a philosophical answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33759	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33760	Thank you very much. You, in your presentation on behalf of the MOST Club, have called on Marx to be troubled by the capitalist society, especially from the aspect of the conspiracy to deliberately work short-term meanings with a limited lifetime of duration because here there are 100-year light bulbs, there may be cars that will drive 150, 200 years, but since capitalists want to earn big money, as Marx spoke exclusively in his interest you have tried to explain to the Croatian public in what kind of situation it is. What I am interested in is that you mentioned both technological progress and certain damages and costs that the state or society will have if progress and renewable energy sources are not used, nature will have certain problems, already there are. What I'm interested in is, can you say here that you're from the Most Representatives' Club of the Most Pro-Renewable Energy Sources, meaning technology, meaning not what we're hearing today, unfortunately from the Most Representatives' Club, who, on the contrary, are sending messages that it's not good to invest in renewable energy sources? And in your debate, I've recognized maybe that twist in the MOST policy, and I'd like you to confirm it again now. Because I think as much as society invests in renewable energy sources, there may be more damage if we don't invest in it for the next hundred years, so here's why I'd like you to explain it a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33761	Thank you. The distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33762	Dear colleague Maras. I really appreciate this question because I agree. There are certain concerns when we talk about renewable energy sources, then it is clear that we need to talk about the technologies and availability of that energy. I didn't realize it that way, I didn't hear either Minister Dobrovic and someone talking against renewable energy sources, but he talked about the balance, so different types of renewable energy sources and how they should be encouraged. I think what happened to us now in the near past was a problem that was extremely large inciting wind power plants, and the wind was unreliable. The wind doesn't blow when we want it, the wind blows when it blows and then we have the energy we might not need at that point. So there was this idea to introduce excise duties so that all incentives could be paid, all quotas agreed upon. I don't know if it's the best idea, but somebody's got to pay them the money they promised people. What is absolutely certain is that new technologies should be developed and that in order to achieve these objectives under the Paris Agreement, the Republic of Croatia will have to make significant efforts. In what way we're going to do it, it's another reading. And there will always be this question that I think Mr. Kirin said in his replica. There is always a question, if we want to move forward then there is a desire for this progress, on the other hand there are resistances. No one's going to the hydropower plant, no one's going to the thermal power plant, they're all against the nuclear power plant, and the energy from somewhere needs to come and the renewable energy is unfortunately still expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33763	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Sagar, these strange tones and mockery don't worry you. So this was one laugh of ignorance. You may be in one dictionary that didn't technically say the essence and I support you on it and those who laughed I think the time is coming where we'll all laugh at those who laughed so far. But you said in your presentation, the Republic of Croatia is extremely vulnerable to climate change. You're absolutely right about that. We are very vulnerable to climate change but not because we produce these climate change, we live in an environment where our environment far, far more affects these climate change because it is aware that in the Republic of Croatia industry is not the largest polluter. In the Republic of Croatia, the largest polluter is traffic, then energy, then industry. But what I want to ask you is, I hope for one encouraging answer, and I could ask the Secretary of State the same question. So at this point in the Republic of Croatia, we have several strategic documents. And this sentence of yours where you were worried at first, which is why environmental and energy-protectors are somehow fusiond has its own legal but logical sequence. Because if you in the same house control the energy development strategy as the second largest polluter and the same people care about environmental protection, I'm sure that at the same house at the same table, problems and non-discriminatoryly lead to a situation that we develop through low-carbon technologies, but we also meet all the conditions that are necessary for the Republic of Croatia to have sufficient energy sources. And when you're somehow rocked by your thinking about whether renewable sources need, they need diverse segments of renewable sources, but also make sure that the Republic of Croatia needs basic energy production because, as you have identified, renewable sources are very unstable and need a regulation mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33765	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33766	Thank you. Dear fellow Horvat, so thank you for your replica. I once sat down with my colleague professor when I was working in high school, we talked about this topic of ecology, about environmental energy sources, and in that, the vehicles of the future, and at that moment he passed, you can see it very rarely in Slavonia, there was a wagon with two horses that the man pushed and my colleague said it was your only environmental vehicle. You know, I'm, maybe someone's laughing, maybe smiling at it, I don't just want to be hypocritical. We're talking today, we all want progress. You know, today, if we want organic production we have to take, in agriculture we have to take the bait, otherwise it won't work. And that's the problem, we want progress, we want energy for that progress. I'm stressing again, we're not good at thermal power plants, or hydroelectric power plants, they're all polluting the environment. But if we want that progress, we have to get energy from somewhere. Unfortunately, the energy they're offering right now, as a renewable energy source, they're expensive but maybe it's not smart what I'm saying. But are these energies really as they appear? Now take the solar cells, so who'll take care of them in a few years? Everyone is today, you get the shelves, so put on the roof, today we can set up that miracle of God, who's going to take care of it, now there's a solar chip. So these are new technologies that we're just going to see in the future how useful they really are but we, I don't think we're going to have a choice in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33767	Thank you very much. The next one should be spoken by a colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. So I'm going to ask the next Club of Representatives and that's the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Damir Materljan will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33768	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, we have silently accepted this practice to discuss, before Friday's vote, topics that are not resilient, laws in which we all agree more or less. This is also the law on the adoption of the Paris Agreement. But here we have been through the debate, and this one global law has managed to bring in both the Masons and the Communists and the Marks and the English. But let's go back to what we call the metrics or the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement is a global agreement on climate change reached in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Agreement includes an action plan aimed at limiting global warming at a significantly less than 2 % level from 2020 onwards. Governments, or countries that reached an agreement, agreed to report every 5 years on their contributions to abandoning the ambitious objectives they have committed to this agreement. They also accepted that they would report to each other and that they would report to the public how progress is being made in the implementation of the objectives set to ensure transparency and supervision above all. The European Union and other developed countries have committed to continue to finance the fight against the negative impacts of climate change to help developing countries reduce emissions, i.e. build a system resistant to the negative effects of climate change. The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016, one month after it was met on 4 October, after the terms of the agreement were met on 4 October, or after being ratified by at least 55 countries responsible for at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions. First of all, it should be noted that climate change is not something that is happening somewhere far away from us and that it is not the changes that affect some of us exotic areas like coral islands in the South Pacific or glaciers in Greenland or Antarctica. We already need to know that the world is one, that the planet is one, and that climate change has an impact directly and concretely, so on our country and our neighborhood. In particular, the city of Karlovac, which is increasingly affected by the devastating floods each year. Slavonia where farmers face enormous quantities of rainfall or drought as much as possible makes it difficult to make agricultural production difficult anyway. According to a study conducted by experts from the Institute of Future Technology, which is an institution that operates under the auspices of the European Commission, the Mediterranean, and Croatia is part of the Mediterranean, followed by even warmer and even more dry summers, which can lead not only to major economic damage in one of our most reliable economic branches of tourism, but also to threats such as devastating fires, droughts, but also to the disappearance of biodiversity, i.e. the disappearance of plant and animal species. The country's climate has always changed, and this is part of a natural process, but after an industrial revolution, more precisely since the early 20th century climate change is due to the direct impact of human activities. It has been proven that global warming is not itself, but that it is the result of human activity. Today, the average earth temperature is 0.8 degrees higher than before the industrial revolution, i.e. before people began to consume fossil fuels and accumulate carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is a gas that is released by burning coal, oil derivatives and gas, and has the most significant impact on global warming. About 22 billion tons of carbon dioxide and descend into the atmosphere every day, or 700 tons every second. If we don't stop this trend by the end of the century, the average earth temperature could rise between 1.4 degrees Celsius, up to 6.4 degrees, leading to cataclysmic consequences for all mankind. The responsibility is, above all, on those greatest economies such as China, the United States and Japan. However, our responsibility as an individual and as a country as a whole. The value of the Paris Agreement, its results could be compared with the practice of vaccination. In fact, vaccination makes sense if the percentage of the population split is as high as possible. Similarly, this agreement will have results, i.e. it will have an impact if it is supported, if it is ratified by as many countries as possible and if the largest number of countries comply with it. For this reason, of course, the SDP club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33769	Thank you very much. The next club will be the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Darko Horvat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33770	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a draft bill on the confirmation of the Paris Agreement. Therefore, at the 21st Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, COP 21, which took place in Paris from 30 November to 12 December 2015, an agreement was adopted on a global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. On 4 November 2016, the Paris Agreement entered into force, with a total of 197 parties to the Convention 134 confirmed it. The EU and its Member States signed the Paris Agreement in New York on 22 April 2016 at a high-level ceremony. The subject-matter agreement is a step towards better implementation of common measures at global level and the acceleration of global transformation into a low-carbon society that is resistant to climate change. It has made progress on the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which until the Paris Agreement was the only legally binding international agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions containing all commitments until 2020. The Paris Agreement, which runs in 2021, sets a long-term qualitative objective for emission reductions in line with the efforts to limit global temperature rises to significantly less than two degrees Celsius, i.e. to try to keep the methodology at a level of no more than 1,5 degrees. In order to achieve this objective, the parties to the agreement will establish and adapt the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The parties will until 2023 rely on the latest scientific data every 5 years to review the state of progress and consider reducing emissions. The EU and its Member States were the first major economies to present their planned national contributions to reduce national emissions to an inclusive and at least 40% by 2030 on 6 March 2015. The EU has already begun working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% as regards the sector covered by the greenhouse gas emission trading system, the European Commission adopted in 2015 a proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the old Directive. 87 of 2003, all to improve costs, effective emission reductions and investment in low carbon emissions. In 2016, the European Commission also adopted proposals setting out the objectives of Member States for sectors not covered by the Emissions Trading System, as well as the way in which emissions are integrated and removed from land use, land reuse and forestry categories. The conclusions of the European Council of 23 October 2014 also set the strategic objective of achieving a share of renewable energy consumption of at least 27% at EU level by 2030. With regard to increasing energy efficiency, it also set an indicative target of at least 27% at EU level by 2030. On the basis of the above, the European Commission will propose measures in the form of action plans to increase the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency, including energy efficiency of buildings. In addition, the Paris Agreement prescribes, the obligation for countries to report their efforts to reduce emissions on a two-year basis, and inform the public about how they implement their obligations and with the aim of ensuring accountability, transparency and control systems. It also provides for the establishment of a comprehensive reporting system to be followed by an audit, which will monitor greenhouse gas emissions, party progress towards meeting long-term objectives, climate change adaptation measures as well as financial and technical support, and the transfer of technologies to developing countries. In addition, the Paris Agreement sets out guidelines for parties to increase action by 2020, and also calls on parties to deliver their low carbon development strategies by 2020 that must cover the middle of this century. The Paris Agreement also gives particular importance to action in order to adapt the establishment of a long-term adjustment objective to reduce climate change sensitivity at global level. The implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources to be provided in the state budget, but is aware of the fact that, by adopting this law, by the basis of the Paris Agreement, we are yet to accept or be obliged to implement them by 2021 in the state budget until 2020, to create assumptions, education, organisation of various seminars, so in 2017, 18 and in the perspective of '18. and '19. Some 2.5 million kuna per year is secured in the state budget. Since the Paris Agreement is a new ambitious global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions already confirmed by the EU and most Member States, and in November 2016 it is also necessary to confirm it in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that the text of the international contract cannot be changed or supplemented at this stage of the procedure, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this law and its emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33771	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33772	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Horvat, I'm going to talk a little slower to get my colleague Horvat to his place. You have quite correctly explained what it is and there is nothing to add or take away, but this opportunity must certainly be used and said that this is a century, a century in which the whole world will deal with climate change. No matter what Mr Trump said about climate change, but let's say the Chinese said there was, and we're aware there is. Both by its work and by its action each country must have a series of programmes that will reduce especially when it comes to CO2 and it is good that energy efficiency is mentioned for the simple reason that the purpose of energy efficiency is not only that our facilities there that were built 30, 40 or 50 years ago are more acceptable in terms of their appearance than the meaning of energy efficiency that they really are energy efficient. This means that much less energy is used for such objects. But what's extremely important and what this country should take care of, which is what I was kind of expecting someone to talk about, using new materials. And this is an opportunity to speak when the secretary of state is there about the use of new materials that some neighbouring countries are already working on. What am I talking about? So concreteists can easily turn into objects or into a system that, by recycling existing construction material when something is collapsing, creates new materials that are equally in terms of energy efficiency, can be better and better quality, and then it would be very good that through the future Croatia, through a series of measures and through the education that you mentioned educates people for some new materials and some new way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33773	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33774	Dear Parliamentarians. I fully agree with everything you have said in this replica, and the contribution is shown to you by some concrete examples and situations that have been happening in the Republic of Croatia since the beginning of 2009. So when we, in a very casual way, and even in this House of Commons, comment on the various emerging situations in the system of renewable elections. So let me just remind you that we have a fully regulated legislative framework but also an action plan for the development of a renewable system that has been verified by the Republic of Croatia and confirmed by the European Commission. Why this action plan hasn't worked in the past five years, I'm afraid I can't answer your question. On the other hand, the 3rd or 4th action plan is already in force in the energy efficiency system. And don't forget, and even at the time when you were the Minister of Construction, the elements of that action plan from the energy portfolio were responsible for implementing energy efficiency measures with the aim of developing exactly new technologies, building thermal envelopes in construction, ingenuity, implementation, monitoring and verification and implementation of this action plan have been moved into the construction portfolio. So let's not have a flat-rate relationship with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia because that, and in particular in Chapter 15, energy is in line with all the legal fasts of the EU certified by the European Commission and the strategic documents and action plans that have been verified today and are in force, they should only be implemented in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33775	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of HNS's Club of Representatives, HSU's distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So Croatia has already signed the Paris Agreement, it has also participated in achieving this which, without any doubt, is the most comprehensive agreement on climate change that has ever been reached and given the number of countries that are there, i.e. the signatories, who participate here, given the areas and scope of the areas covered here and regulated. Why is that? So why it took so long to reach such an agreement in which it is particularly important, the greatest industrial forces of the world that, of course, concern this at least in the first stage are involved. Because he traditionally opposed development and climate change. So it was somehow impossible to grow and develop while at the same time taking care of environmental protection and especially of greenhouse gas emissions. And many countries that went into industrial expansion found it unfair to apply these restrictions to them. Because old industrial forces took advantage of a time when such restrictions were gone and developed to a level where they could then be much easier to interfere with the post-industrial stage of development with much cleaner production than is possible for countries that have just started to develop their industry. Perhaps one of the greatest successes of this Paris Agreement is the very positive and active role of China, which until then has been quite skeptical of this kind of agreement in both profiling and ultimately signing this agreement. At this point, Croatia is below that level that is allowed in the greenhouse gas emissions for a number of reasons, that we are not now entering, but of course part of the destroyed industrial production. But why do we care? And perhaps the most significant question here in this House is that, regardless of what Croatia produces less greenhouse gases, something that would be allowed by these quotas that are shared. Why is such an agreement so important to Croatia? One of the things that has not controlled the emissions of greenhouse gases produced through the production of climate change are both large and all extensive, i.e. comprehensive migrations in some parts of the world, which are caused by precisely climate change, which are caused by the fact that where they were, there was a working country, where land could live on today is no longer possible. It is particularly affected by the very countries where we see today that the international crisis of hunger has been declared, countries from which more and more, so I would say indeed a refugee although they are not necessarily running away from war but running away from death from hunger. It comes to Europe, it comes to other African countries, and that trend cannot be stopped by violence, cages, wire fences. It can only be stopped by stopping climate change and opening up opportunities for these people to live in their countries, so that they live on agriculture, that these countries can develop and remain on that territory. Many of the wars we have witnessed today are also caused by climate change directly or indirectly, so caused by the inability of the population to survive in one territory, the inability of people to live in the places where they lived centuries before. The increase in global temperature may be the most dramatic and, for the first time, quite impressively shown in Al Gore's book and film "Uncomfortable Truth" where, among other things, it has proved to us directly to say, reflects, for example, the dissolving of polar ice caps that not only increase the sea level but also reduce the surface that reflects the sun's heat and sunlight from the ground. And through that it also contributes to an increase in earth's temperature. The increase in sea level has not a long-term but a direct impact on the coastal countries, and especially on a whole series of islands and countries that have actually very low shores, some of which threaten to disappear at this time. But it reflects also on the overall environmental situation which in Croatia has its consequences not only as a maritime country but also as a guideline for further economic and economic development, i.e. the type of economic development not only in energy but also in industry and certainly in education. And the truth is that the Paris Agreement that needs to be ratified, I don't think there's any dispute about it, we don't argue that no matter what it starts to apply, it's just, I mean, it's actually very close, by plans and by means very close to 2021. That it should have been prepared before, and certainly very actively to start preparing today. It's not just a question of education. It's a question and I'm surprised that there was a debate about it at all because one of the main and most famous projects that counterpart Mrak Taritas led when she was the Minister of Construction was exactly the project of that energy efficiency in construction. So energy efficiency in different aspects of life is something that is a direct preparation for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, as well as a direct guideline for the development of the Croatian economy. So, in what direction do we also go in the field of energy, but also in the area of industrial development? So, in preparing for the implementation of this Paris Agreement, there are a whole series of moves in almost all areas of life in Croatia that we have to accept and we have to accept, and we have to accept ourselves at the very least today in order to be able not only because this agreement obliges us to do so, not just because eventually some EU directives oblige us to do so, but because our common sense and our own survival commit us to it. We should start getting ready right away. The HNS and HSU Club will certainly support the ratification of this Agreement and even stronger preparations for the implementation of this Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33777	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33778	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Pusic, I agree with everything you've said, but here in the context of these foreign-political facts, we need to look again at this Paris Agreement and this Kyoto agreement to say from Kyoto via Doha to Paris in the context of local and global. So our local context is not controversial. So, we have as fellow Horvat said and action plans and this Kyoto has bound us to make more agreements that we have made and the implementation of this will begin. We've heard two and a half million kunas that are scheduled, it'll probably take a lot more, so maybe they'll withdraw some funds. And that's our local level. We've got some hybrid chargers, etc. So we stick to it as one country under international agreements. But what is the global level? The global level is that the Kyoto Agreement hasn't signed either the United States or China as far as I know, and they're the two biggest contaminants. Canada signed, so as I recall in 2012 it decided to come out of the agreement, because then, one four, five years ago, their environment minister said that around 10m euros would cost them the implementation of the Kyoto Agreement's objectives. And then they just decided to come out, and they're the third largest greenhouse gas pollutant in the world. So three of the world's largest polluters, two of them didn't sign, the third one came out. We're like one small country and we're not at all controversial. But the question at all is how controversial we are in this whole context from Kyoto through Doha to Paris. I think that, by example, both the Ministry and the Government, and by strategies and by means and by means, we can actually be a role model for large countries, but whether we have an impact on that or the EU, or the UN, is a question of who will sign it and how it will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33779	Thank you. The honourable representative Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33780	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for this comment to say so. Of course, Croatia is not a global force that can affect such great world powers as China, the United States and Canada, and that they are key if we want to tackle climate change as humanity. However, that is even more so, I would say emphasises the importance of the Paris Agreement because the Paris Agreement has been signed. And from that point of view, what has been achieved for us and is particularly important globally, I think that we are all aware of the fact that with the new context of the political particular result of the US elections and the statements we have heard here from the new President Trump, give us a certain cause for concern or to what extent America is willing to stick to this agreement, but the fact is that it is also signed by these forces, I think for the first time in history it gives us, of course, not individually, but together with the region, together with the EU, along with a whole series of countries that are strong in this position of the Paris Agreement gives us a chance to still move things from a dead spot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33781	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33782	Thank you very much. Representative Pusic, I would agree with you and this is a well-known fact that the development of climate change has taken place. And today, the countries, i.e. those who, too, would agree, who had a faster development industrially if they had more impact on climate change and are the largest polluter i.e. that the most affected what is happening today, and you are when you list and raise the sea level, melting the glaciers and impact on these now events in Africa where the climate is one of the conditions and these wars and the survival of these people in these areas. But the power of God does not beg, all those who have signed the agreement are guilty of both wars and climates, of course by developing their industries and minding their own business. So we see that these countries are still much more developed than Croatia, that we must look locally, and of course their interest is exclusively and primarily their development, and we are to them only the market. And they're comfortable with that part of it and the kind of policy that they're being developed and we're staying on this status that we're in right now. I repeat, the power of God does not beg, they do as they do. The culprits are for climate change three great forces, the culprits are for wars, because their interest would certainly not be in these wars, they wouldn't be loud, they wouldn't be happening now here we see the biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War in Africa, to predict tens of thousands of children who are going to die. So the environment needs to be preserved, but I repeat again, really those who potentiate this strongest force are the biggest problem and there is a problem in them, the least problem in Croatia and in small countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33783	Thank you. The honourable representative Pusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33784	Thank you very much. So, of course, the first industrial countries were the first to start polluting, that the world's largest economies had the strongest share there. However, when we speak, we must be very careful because in world terms we, Croatia, are among the more developed, so we are among the richer and developed in the general hierarchy of general division on the globe. And as far as polluters are concerned, the most developed forces also have a gradual interest and money to transfer to more modern technologies, which are less polluting because their own countries and their own citizens suffer from it, so if you want the markets. So, I don't mean in the interest of destroying everything else and having no more market for my goods. The problem is that countries that are poorer have de facto less money to invest in expensive, more modern technologies that are more friendly to the environment, and this view comes to conflict that now countries that were once responsible, of course, for the most polluting that they can afford some financial and technological things that others cannot do in their own development. But this project, in my opinion, can only succeed if, of course, it has been debated about everything that is guilty, how it has happened, but if one future has turned a consensus project, so if it tries to involve everything, rather than divide the world in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33785	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33786	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Pusic. You mentioned something very important about the agreement, which is education. In the future, therefore, some new jobs await future climate change problems and expect new responsibilities, and there is an extremely important education because we are coughing this moment. We cough for the simple reason that some new technologies, some new materials, and some new ways of installation are used. Croatia is the last of all European Union countries in terms of change, in general education, or lifelong education in this regard. But we've got to get ready for some new jobs as well. When we mention energy efficiency, then in energy efficiency are really different jobs, they're new jobs. And believe it or not, when you start dealing with it in reality, then all of a sudden you don't have people ready to do it. We've had several opportunities in this assembly to talk about how people move out, how they're looking for jobs elsewhere. But the role of all of us in terms of education is that people who are in Croatia are educated for some new jobs but because we are equally aware of the fact when it comes to construction that we are always saying that there are no workers. I did it myself in the work that I was doing, when we were supposed to do a major project to rebuild the County Posavina which is the same, that flood was the result of certain changes there were no workers, there was no ordinary workforce when it was related to construction without talking about any specific ones. Therefore, the alarm in red is now and it is good that this agreement is also discussed, so new knowledge, new competences and a new way, that high school education, that basic education that is related to construction, because we will simply have to import people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33787	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33788	Thank you very much. And I think this is, in that sense, a very useful and kind of... debate. So it is obvious that, especially for the country of our size and geopolitical position, education is somehow rooted in everything and in the economy and development and environmental protection and even in relation to climate change. One of the things we haven't done in the first place is to try to be therefore, as you colleagues of Mrak-Taritash said, we need new jobs, new jobs are ahead of us, and we need not only new knowledge but also very likely new professions. So, what we've done almost nothing at all is develop technology parks, develop areas where we're going to convert some scientific discoveries or achievements into practical solutions, so practical industrial policies or products or applied science to say, so what we can produce and what we can convert into economic activity. And this job, let's say, an agreement and preparations for the realisation of this agreement could be a good incentive for us to move in that direction. We even have some great scientists, but we don't have and we don't have a very weak buckle, this connection between science and practical application, so translation it into an industry or some particular product. For example, this agreement could open up as a good topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33789	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative of Ljubice Ambrusec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33790	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament... , esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a few words, I would like to point out the importance of adopting this law. As said by the State Secretary and several colleagues and colleagues before me, the Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement of the Republic of Croatia as a party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change will oblige the State to implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute global warming to a global response to climate change. Globalisation has brought with it multiple challenges as well as opportunities to fight together for the future for both our countries, the communities of the states and the whole of the country. There's not much we can do to individual forces, but there's a lot more that can be done to the joint forces, professional, joint action, and much more. The Paris Agreement is a major step towards better implementation of common measures at global speed and the acceleration of global transformation in a low-carbon society that is resistant to climate change. It made progress compared to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and its own. The same change from Doha in 2012 which until the Paris Agreement were the only legally binding international agreements on reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the end of 2020. It is also important for this agreement to apply to all countries of the world and that all countries should make a contribution in this case in accordance with national circumstances. It is also important to note that in the final phase of the creation of a low carbon development strategy by 2030, with a view to 2050, which is planned to be adopted in the second quarter of 2017 and will represent a comprehensive economic, development and environmental strategy that through innovation, transfer of advanced technologies and significant, structural changes in all sectors will allow for the promotion and growth of industrial production, the development of new activities, economic competitiveness and, of course, the creation of new jobs. Since Croatia is highly sensitive to climate change because of its geographical position, it is also commendable that a strategy and adaptation to climate change is also being developed in the Republic of Croatia by 2040, with a view to the 2070th year to be adopted in the first quarter of 2018. By listening to all the speakers before me, we realized that given all those words that have touched on air cleanness, the creation of ecological conditions, the organic production and everything else that actually contributes to the purity of life, I must, unfortunately, refer to the previous governments and we must take into account that they did not actually care so much about the systematic destruction of freight transport, for example, by rail which was also the smallest polluter of transport and freight. Of course, from any interest, it has increasingly focused on transport, road transport, traffic and cargo and other goods, and we know that it is a significantly greater polluter than the railway itself, and by the fact that it is the road transport itself that leads through populated settlements. So it's just one segment you could mention about the pollution that I'd say wasn't so worried about. And in previous discussions, we talked about the fact that railways themselves and the railways themselves have literally not invested in the last 50 years. Thank God and the people who have now stimulated rail transport itself, as well as the construction of new spring strips, and we hope that it will indeed be a significantly smaller polluter that has not been approached in all these years. So I would just say that our only permanent heritage is our country and we need to invest all the strength we can to preserve it for generations that come behind us. Let us guard the earth and nature on it, for as the old proverb says, “we did not inherit it from our grandfathers, but we borrowed it from our grandsons. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33791	Thank you. I see a colleague of the bush is looking for a break, but we'll do the replicas sooner. Well, the first replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33792	Representative Ambrusec, all of what I'm saying in practice is these agreements of Paris and previous agreements, they're in theory of good, but Agent Pusic said well that she was in use. Is the application possible? So today we have a grudge not only about air pollution, but we have an adversities such as endangering what is wealth, it's water. So the application is a problem, so the power plant in Peru will endanger the richest resource in the Dalmatian Zagora, i.e. in the entire Republic of Croatia, in fact in Europe one of the most significant drinking waters, that means that the karst area can be done without any problems in Croatia. In other European countries, however, only 30 such thermal power plants were shut down last year. So 500 thousand people are being fed out of that area, so we also have an attack on Lečevica where drinking water is also at risk. Of course, in theory, it's beautifully written, we all speak nicely, but it's a fluke in these areas that's basically drinking water, it's essentially unreasonable, it's irresponsible because of the future of our children because what we have today, and it's the drinking water that we can spend right out of the Spanish right in our own, the taps in our houses. Unfortunately, this is the way we're going to put it at risk. So here is not the problem with all these legal acts, all of these agreements, mostly those that put climate change at risk, which affected the most, are the strongest forces. They will write it easily, prescribed, but in Croatia we do not protect the environment and nature because of future generations, but at present we are trying to through foreign investors and as green energy in essence to destroy, and what is most important in this case is in the Cetina region and the Dalmatian water burns.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33793	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ambrusec will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33794	I agree with my esteemed colleague Bull. In any case, I believe that we have not really agreed to protect our natural resources, as you mentioned the water itself, as well as the fresh air that I recently communicated to in this honorable House and from the pay phone. So the agreement itself can't help us, nor can the law itself if we won't agree to actually do it in a way that protects our natural resources, and I hope we're going towards it and I hope that we will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33795	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33796	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Ambrusec, you have made the benefits of this agreement well. What's important is to say, and maybe we haven't heard that in fact 50% of these greenhouse gases come from road transport. You were in that direction and warned, and only 30% of them are made by heating. Now we know what's causing it, so we know how to resuscitate them and whether there's money for hybrid vehicles, hybrid chargers, etc. We see that 2.5 million are foreseen for the implementation of this Agreement. In 2021, Kyotski finished what you pointed out and started this Parisian and this Parisian obliges us to implement action plans and strategies. And you mentioned that a low carbon strategy is being developed and now the question is whether that 2.5 million will be enough. It probably won't, given all these goals that are set. And that is why we all hope that we will still be able to withdraw additional funds to really implement these objectives, and we have heard from colleagues a really well written and acacia plan and strategies and laws, and now it is only a question of whether there will be money to implement what is well written because we are indeed modeled about the strategy and text that is listed and the objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33797	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33798	Dear colleague Vuksanovic. Of course, we all hope, and we believe that it will actually be implemented in measures, since we are full of mouths that we have quite the financial resources from the Eu Funds and it is important that we just call the competitions, it is only important to apply to competitions and to withdraw funds. I personally believe, and also on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, there is, of course, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and the rest of the ministry, that we will indeed go through the protocol of the next four years and, as a ruling, I believe that we will truly meet all these expectations and all these parameters that we have set out to meet, as well as the strategies themselves and all of these items that are for the sake of preserving natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33799	Thank you. The next is a replica of Tomislav Zhagar's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33800	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ambrusec, you have touched a very important segment in your debate, and that is well stated that not only is this debate wide but this topic requires a wide range of space in terms of many social definitions, above all in the design of strategies, whether it is an educational strategy, a strategy for economic development, a strategy for environmental protection, everything that includes these measures. On the one hand, we want to be competitive on the market, so we need cheap energy, and in order to have cheap energy, we need to have good technologies. We need a good education for good technologies, and that's all a closed circle from which if we don't do good work, we won't be able to do other things. And for example, the railroad has shown very well, it is known that the railway is one of the best, purest modes of transport compared to road transport, but the question is why. We've often heard an explanation that the railroad you're losing, but it's rare or almost a small number of railroads in the world that aren't losers. Therefore, the railway needs state support and I think that, in this direction in the future, it should be developed as a cheap form of transport and an environmentally acceptable form of transport, but of course there is also the necessary means. Someone says it doesn't pay off, it's like if you say it doesn't pay to invest in textbooks, and we don't have much use for them. So these things need to be invested in the future, and then it will be a good way to go towards a healthier life and a better economic situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33801	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33802	I would like to thank my colleague, Sagar, for your findings and the same question. Yes, I agree that, in fact, according to our supposed national strategy that will be adopted in one due time, we all know that unfortunately we still don't, so through a national strategy we will assume this round cycle, I would say, and that's the cycle of education itself, and further so that we can bring even more valid laws, and also all other strategies from the school itself to study our young people who are going to work on it today, and also engineers later and all those who will be involved in the implementation of certain segments themselves. Also, this way of transporting by rail, I really think that one of the greener and I would say healthier is that we all know that road traffic is really polluting air more than rail, but unfortunately it wasn't dry enough to put an accent on this part. I repeat again, for 50 years I haven't touched the railroad or the installation of the rail strips, but now that time has come, we hope that all of this together will improve all of this that we're communicating about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33803	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. Before the Paris conference, which was in 2015, the European Council had already decided that EU Member States would reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 40% by 2030 compared to the 1990 base year, and that as a state, we do not have a problem with this and we will reach our targets relatively and easily. What I agree with you, the Republic of Croatia in part of transport is one of the worst-placed EU Member States precisely because the gross traffic within the country is driven through road traffic, despite the fact that the Republic of Croatia has great assumptions that it can develop other modes of transport that are much more acceptable for environmental protection and greenhouse gas emissions than road traffic. So in this context, you mentioned rail transport which is insufficient especially the part relating to freight transport. But what you didn't mention, which would be important and what's challenging to this government, which is to arrange the Sava River waterway, rehabilitating the Sava River's waterway at least on a class of wateriness that was up to the Speaker's not understood. In the project Slavonia, promoted by the Government, promoted by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, is a significant part, referring to the development and arrangement of the Sava River waterway, so that we can also lift and cost transport, because, as you said, rail transport is cheaper than road traffic and even cheaper than rail traffic. In this way we are helping our own economy and in this context this project of Slavonia is precisely on the trail of the development of these forms of traffic that are more acceptable and friendly in relation to environmental and nature protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33805	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33806	Dear colleague Bačić, I agree with you anyway. Since I come from a region where there is no river, Rijeka, so I come from the area through the railway line, and my heart is glad that this railway has finally begun to be built, so they go both ways for Koprivnica and Botovo. And also from Gradec, my municipalities are building a railway line towards St John’s Frog, or Bjelovar, so that there will be no detour across the Cross. So, thank you for your valuable projects, and thank God we have them. So for whatever reason, I simply didn't mention river traffic, but that, in any case, the most ecological, the cheapest is really river traffic. In that case, I would really point out to Sava and also to the Danube, who is really the one who can handle all of this that we've talked about and it just wasn't enough use. We hope it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33807	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33808	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Ambrusec, you've just mentioned the railroad, the Sava River, the Ecology, the reduction of greenhouse gases, and we haven't actually done anything. The railway that was to be built to the east for many days was once 300 trains passing through the Vinkova railway station. We've made so much progress that 90 trains go today. Sometimes a 120 - mile [120 km] rail to Novska, today it is only 60 or less. What are we talking about? Demagoggy is being scattered into the people, we'll do it, so we won't do it to Sava for the next 30 years. It's just nice stories, nice listenin'. What did we do? Nothing. We slowed down everything we needed quickly, so we've got road traffic truck after truck to the east, instead of going train after train and eco and financial and everything's better and we don't see it. We're going to the track to Hungary, thank God it's that too. Well, I guess the railroad was supposed to go east that connects the east-west. Of course, as we've done, we have. Wherever we put our hand, we made a mistake, and then when we make a mistake, then we talk about how we're gonna get out, how we can. Gentlemen, let's wake up and try to rationally think about how this people should be promoted and not how to make their own personal or some kind of party or some part of the world a better, local election or something else. So I think we're spreading the demagogue here, not the real truth of what we're going to do in the future because I see a strategy just talking and it's not getting any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33809	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ambrusec will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33810	Unfortunately, I have to agree with my colleague Misic in most of the words with you, and also since it has finally started to build railways, I hope that since it is in the drive to go, I hope that it will be realized as it is drawn, at least I can appeal from Gradec himself where really the works are in progress. They were even works throughout the winter period, indeed in performance. So I can commend myself on that part, and I think it will be within a day's notice. So that's kind of my idea given the whole series of events I say both during the winter and through this already light spring period when it really caught on. And I think even this Graz-Belovar railroad will be completed before the deadline. So here we go, we can't really look at everything black, if it was black, but hopefully the light is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33811	Thank you. I hear there's a deal that the distinguished representative Maras speaks before the break, so here's my word. I hope he doesn't criticise like last time that we'll be 12 o'clock, because we won't be able to vote at 12 o'clock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33812	The second is the debate, the second is the break, it will be even better media followed if there is a break closer to 12, so I also saw the win-win situation for both MOST colleagues and myself not to speak in front of the marble. Anyway, I'm going to be very brief, I mean it's good to say that Croatia supports the Paris Agreement, which is the first such agreement between the nations, between the countries of the world after the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and that we all strive for a low-carbon society. And it would be good for both the EU and all EU members to continue with such a policy. And we can express little concern that the changes in the US administration are going to try to reciprocate pollution or the impact on global warming associated with burning fossil fuels. So we see now, the American Environment Protection Agency and its representative say that it does not essentially consider that pollution, burning fossil fuels is what has contributed most to global warming what the scientific community thinks is more in favour of the oil industry. But I hope that this debate will also be held because the United States is very important, which is being led there, will lead to America and further as President Obama's administration has been involved in these agreements, to continue to behave in this way. On this side, we must be aware of how much global warming affects the Republic of Croatia. And once again here, I will stress the need to support the scientific community by the ministry, agencies and funds in order to create a quality map of flora in the Republic of Croatia so that for future generations it remains recorded that global warming has affected Croatia. Maybe some species that were maybe 50 years from now won't be. That's what all the countries of the world do, so I think Croatia should do the same. I say scientists have been trying to run the project for the third, fourth year in a row. It's not working. I hope there will be hearing, because I think it's very important. For example, here's one piece of information. When in 20, 30 years if the temperature rises at this rate we will have some Montenegrin wood, we may not look at it at all in Croatia at all, because they require certain heat. Since Croatia does not have high mountains to migrate eventually, seeds will have to be modified to make certain more resistant crops come to an end. But unfortunately, here's some indigenous variety, I'm sure there won't be any more. That's why it's important to do that. I am asking the Ministry once again to meet scientists from the University of Zagreb and others in the Republic of Croatia and to simply help them in this way, or not to help them because they are doing so from a scientific point of view, to help society to have a better basis for future times. On the other hand, I think we should continue in terms of reducing the use of fossil fuels, that's colleague Ambrusec, and some have spoken earlier about the railways. And I think we should go towards renewable energy sources, of course, see what suits us the most, and also in transport and transport I think they've been some good programs in recent years. I hope it keeps on using not only hybrid cars, but mostly electric cars. How technology will now move away in the coming years is likely to be and as autonomy concerns more acceptable, and as far as consumption and environmental pollution are concerned, they are already acceptable at this point. And I think the ministry should also continue to promote the transition from using fossil fuels to those who are less polluting the environment. So in the end, I won't be here long to make sure it's not all the way to 12. I hope that as soon as possible all the countries that signed the Paris Agreement will ratify and implement it in their legislation as the Republic of Croatia did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33813	Thank you very much. Now, the word will be taken on behalf of the promoter, esteemed Zeljko Bigovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished and esteemed MPs and MPs. From your individual debate and the views of the president of the club representatives and support of the Committee on Law and Environmental Protection and Energy, it is unquestionable and visible that almost all political parties and MPs will support this proposal for a law confirming the Paris Agreement. On that, here's a thank you. What I might say through two, three brief hints, and that's what's going to happen through the debate and it's been asked and it's been shown. In fact, we know that in the creation of the Low Carbon Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050. Public procurement for the development of the 2015 strategy has been implemented. It's been working intensively, and as far as I know, I've only been a secretary of state in this ministry for 20 days, but I've been involved in a lot of these segments. It's about drawing up this strategy. It includes a wider scientific community, so I believe that colleges and universities and our scientists are involved to get a quality document for discussion. I respect this proposal and the suggestion of a respected representative of Maras to call on the academic community, to build one map of flora and fauna and to be an integral part of this Strategy. We're going to examine what course it's in, so the strategy as it sees a face in Parliament, so at the end of the second quarter of this year, it's going to have this part of the map. Here's what we'll try to do, of course. Also in the design is the Energy Independence Strategy of the Republic of Croatia which needs to provide answers to what kind of energy and species should be used in the future, but of course it will also be part of a complexity where new renewable energy sources have been used, and so far they will be part of these strategies. What I would say here is that at the end of February in Brussels, a meeting of the Council of Europe ministers attended and participated in by our Minister of Environment and Energy, Mr Slaven Dobrovic, where a clean energy package was discussed for all Europeans. The debate discussed transport, infrastructure and an energy package for all EU members. Greater investment in renewable energy sources, and I say to the parliamentary deputies that in this respect we will have available new energy sources and everything else almost 177 billion euros a year. Therefore, Croatia will certainly participate in these funds and it is not these 2 million 670 thousand kuna provided for in the Republic of Croatia's budget at the position of the Environment and Energy Fund to be used for the implementation of this strategy. We have far higher resources and Croatia is ready to take advantage of it. And just maybe a word, two is the esteemed Mr. Misic, and Mr. Glasovic also touched the waste in the Republic of Croatia, which is also part of a strategic low carbon society and a reduction in air pollution. A waste management plan was adopted in this House at the end of the 1st month. We have currently developed action measures to collect waste, certain types of waste, and it is also a regulation that will live in one month. We are discussing and calling on all representatives of the unit of local and county authorities, together with the communals, where we are taking measures and regulation out, and also by adopting this waste management strategy, we have been given the opportunity to withdraw 475m euros from EU funds for the implementation of the waste management plan. Therefore, a tender for funding projects for the construction of recycling yards where two million kunas are available and we call on all units of local self-government to engage and withdraw these funds has been opened on the sides of the Ministry and the Environmental Protection Fund. We are also in action to really bring this waste management plan to life in the Republic of Croatia, I will not look back on the previous period but it is intensively done and the results will certainly be seen. And this is all that's said here, of course, to many of the things that we live in the field, and we know that it's illogical not to take out sand from Sava, but that's why we're buying it from Serbia and BiH, and in this area this ministry is in charge, so we're working on really making some of these illogical things right. Thank you very much. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33815	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33816	Dear Secretary, support all your activities. You mentioned energy, renewable energy you mentioned, I am not asking you again this way, but what the people of the Chetino region are fighting for, the whole of Dalmatia to stop the construction of TE on the river Cetina as the largest source of water in the Republic of Croatia, drinking water, because the only thing we have is clean air and the environment. All the agreements that are signed are for nothing, and in crazy, they don't apply because we don't keep what's most important, and these are our potentials and resources, and mostly drinking water in this way. And it is therefore necessary to stop this project because of future generations and that area that has simply been given to God. With 500 thousand people using this drinking water every day. The city's region of the Dalmatian Zagora has also been threatened by drinking waters of the Jadro River and other debauchery rivers and floodwaters. These are impacts on what is of national interest and what is currently most important, and these are drinking water. If we destroy that, we destroy the future in these areas and what's most important and the greatest potential, which is clean water and clean air. That's why we build energy where we can, where there's green energy, and there's a variety of reversible possibilities of energy production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-17-0.u33817	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote a little later. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 110. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement. Please engage and let's vote. I find that with 121 votes for, none against, any abstentions, therefore, the Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement was unanimously passed.
