ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-02-0.u24604	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Honorable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected citizens who follow us through small screens. In exactly six days, so on 8 February, it comes to the payment of bonds issued by the Republic of Croatia ten years ago for a total amount of 5.5 billion kuna at an interest rate of 4.75%. Why did I answer to warn you about this bond? So this time, let's say, one positive pressure and not allow the state to refinance this bond too expensive, not to allow the corruption of the state and taxpayers. 4.75% interest rate at 5.5 billion dollars a year, the most crude, makes a commitment to the state of 261 million kuna. This bond can be refinanced because the cash market situation is at a maximum of 1% per year, then interest on this same bond would amount to 55 million kuna per year and the state would save no less than 206 million kuna per year, and that 206 million kuna could be used for various useful purposes. What else are we looking for and warning the Minister of Finance, what should he do and have to do in six days? It would also have to enable citizens to buy bonds because so far, in one way or another, because of a certain procedure, because of the large amounts of individual purchases, it was not possible. We ask that citizens be granted the minimum purchase of this bond of five thousand kuna so that many people can buy government bonds. Why is this important? Because today an ordinary citizen takes five or ten thousand kunas to the savings, the bank will give him 0.3%, 0.2% rarely as 0.4%, so he can get three to four times as much if he's allowed to buy a government bond. What am I saying? The system has so far been set up that in this way benefits from state funding can only have financial institutions, not citizens who have very large savings in bank accounts. This state funding system was not set up in a way to take care of the public interest of the general good, but rather preferred by financial institutions in particular. Let me just brief you on what the situation has been like in the last eight years. Dear MPs and MPs, in the last eight years, as far as the kuna part of the public debt was concerned, it had to refinance 140 per year, it had 140 billion kunas of domestic public debt. The average interest rate on it was about 5%, so the annual commitment was about seven billion kuna on interest alone. From 2008 to 2016, all other central banks made it possible to refinance the country around 0.5% to 1%, 1.5%. If we had already refinanced these 140 billion kuna commitments annually, we wouldn't have paid seven billion kuna a year, but we would have paid a much smaller amount annually, or we would have paid 2.8 billion kuna a year. In eight years we paid $33.6 billion in interest, and we were supposed to pay, sorry we paid about $56 billion in kuna, and we were supposed to pay 22.4 billion in kuna. So this state and its taxpayers paid $33.6 billion needlessly. Who? Institutional investors. Of which the citizens had the least benefit, almost nothing, so it is high time for this system to change. The message to the Minister of Finance and the Government is, gentlemen, on this show, allow 50% of the purchase of citizens, the highest contribution of 1% without the currency clause, and let's turn to public good. And just one more question, do you know the difference between geese and Croatian taxpayers? .../
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-02-0.u24605	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-02-0.u24606	The geese scream when they're ripped, the Croatian taxpayers shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-02-0.u24607	Representative Lovrinović, you've run out of time. Thank you. Club Representative Live Wall SNAGA also volunteered for a break and will speak for them by representative Goran Alaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-02-0.u24608	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I want to talk about the derivative business of banks, first of all about how Croatian banks participate in the business of EU derivatives. In fact, business derivatives is a very interesting accounting method where money exchanges make exchanges of exchange rates. Well, in the context of a Swiss franc loan, I have to say that the banks of mothers in Croatian bank derivatives earned about 10 billion kuna on a difference of rates without a single dime of tax. If that were the case, I also have proof, I have here two works of analysts of the Swiss National Bank of 2009 and 2012. On the basis of these analyses, analysts of the Swiss National Bank can be seen dealing with loans in Swiss francs in the euro area and outside the euro area. In the euro zone, all euro zone countries in the business of loans with the Swiss franc currency clause used deposits of Swiss citizens and loans in Swiss that were raised on the interbank market. On the contrary, in countries outside the euro area, the country did not have enough coverage in Swiss deposits and loans. This cover was only 20% and 16% in one part. And for this rest that wasn't covered by loans and which wasn't covered by bank citizens' deposits, they were off-balance sheet making forward contracts with a currency fold with mothers' banks. I'm not going to explain too much now how it works, I understand how it works. But I'm going to tell you that this is how the mothers' banks arrived in 2011 over three and a half billion kunas in exchange for exchange rates, and after conversion, the total amount of exchange rates that the mothers' banks have received is about 10 billion kuna. All that money would've been paid if they'd stayed in Swiss franc loans, debtors in Swiss franc loans. Fortunately, a conversion has been made, so debtors will no longer pay those exchange rates, and I believe that neither the state will, after the arbitration in Washington, because that arbitration has to be challenged and that arbitration is needed by the Republic of Croatia. The only place to discuss any conversion problems is the courts in Croatia and the EU court. Therefore, since banks have earned on derivatives, mother banks, domestic banks have earned contrary to the exchange rate difference. At the rate difference in interest, domestic banks have earned about 2 billion kuna. On illegal interest increases, only in loans with a currency clause, the Swiss franc of the domestic bank earned about 3 billion kuna. So they totaled 3 billion kuna on illegal interest, 2 billion kuna on the exchange rate difference and will still make about a billion and 300 million kuna on tax forgiveness based on conversion. This means that banks in Croatia have no cost of conversion when looking at a future. It was created only at the moment of the conversion. After that, there's no cost. However, since banks continue to operate illegally, since banks continue to manipulate interest rates, since the government has not yet taken anything to do with this, even though we have asked for changes to the laws regarding it, I am forced to finally make the last move, which is to propose legislation, changes to the Consumer Credit Act which will finally prevent the manipulation of the interest rates of Croatian banks. In this I expect the support of all MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. These laws are under review at MOST and HDZ and I will propose to the Committees on Finance and the Committee on Justice to hold a thematic session on this matter and after this thematic session is passed if it is accepted that this thematic session will be implemented in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament. So I expect your support because this will prevent banks from further manipulating interest rates, because banks are really earning extra profits based on illegally defined interest rates. We have here recently the Criminal Court in Rijeka sentenced Erste Bank and responsible person to the president of Radakovic where the fines are, the fines will be charged for, precisely because of the manipulation of interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-02-0.u24609	Thank you.
