ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55952	We have breaks most likely, please, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55953	Thank you very much, good morning, esteemed chairman. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists would speak about the package affair we followed during yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55954	Thank you. Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55955	It's a question of confiscated property.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55956	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55957	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to talk about a hell of an act that continues on a continuous basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55958	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55959	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break to discuss the illegal management of waste mud on the fertile soils of Međimurje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55960	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55961	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 10 minute break related to the announced privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55962	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55964	Thank you very much. There's no one left. I'm setting a break until 9:00 and 45 minutes. It's 9:00.35. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] On behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge Club, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic, requested the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55966	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament and dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday seems to have marked the packages. A package of laws that came to the Croatian Parliament for discussion. During the night, suddenly he showed up, actually what he was? It's not just any package, it's actually a package that's like Pandora's, that once you open it, then it only leads in one direction and that's the privatisation of HEP. So, right now, here, I've had a little look at it and last night I'm going to look at it, that HDZ in its pre-election program, clearly wrote, I think that, correct page 67 is not privatizing HEP. Yesterday, in fact, let's just tickle our imagination, because for all of us who have been in touch with that subject, it's clear that it was a key shift, without which no form of privatisation, of IPO, or whatever someone calls it, you can't run it. But what's going on. So, at the small door, space is opened, that in fact, all of us are excited about what, in which direction, the Croatian public is sensitizing about it, to recognize that it was something that was a hindrance in any previous term, or in this, because without this resource, which is currently owned by the Republic, HEP as such is worth almost nothing. I won't say anything, they're worth a lot, of course, but this is the key to it. So we have a situation, where the ruling, it's understandable to me, for HNS they've always had an attitude and that maybe there was no obstacle in the government of Zoran Milanovic, they would have spent that part, so probably because of the inability of the agreement, it didn't go away, but I'm just afraid that at this point with HDZ there's no such compromise under the pretext that it's good for the Croatian people, that it'll lower the price of services, that we'll all prosper from entering the new capital. But I didn't hear it all together, I actually heard the defense from my former government colleague, Dark Horvat, who was his position and clearly, he made it clear, he's against it. He was also, when Prime Minister Plenkovic announced, he was against it and on his Facebook that made it clear, there is no need to implement it. We have so many mechanisms with one good governance, we can handle it ourselves and be successful at it. But I didn't hear after the whole debate, after such a topic was opened, nor did the Minister of Resistance, nor did the diameter say explicitly, yes or said no. It means neither. I'm just asking you why? Personally, if someone called me on a subject like that and said no, I don't want to, then I'd be clearly and publicly communicating, we're not going that way. Don't be afraid, it won't be like that, but I didn't hear it. And that's why I'm going to ask here too, here's to the Prime Minister or Makar, Minister Coric to make that clear. If there's no clear answer then we know it's cooked up and it's headed in one direction. Now the question is, how far away, but I'm telling you, this affair, which now begins, it will take and again be to say, a key topic through one series of months as long as, or by ruling not to give up on it, or until we face it, that we will... without a clear concept, strategy and all other privatisation, even if that is so, according to counterpart Horvat, the HEP Privatisation Act will be passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As soon as he mentions the law, then I know there's an idea. I couldn't say it if I didn't know it existed. But if it exists somewhere in the core, then it is. But, I'm saying, here's a package, and what I did yesterday, much more, is basically as a person, it hit me, it actually gave me a package in one kindergarten, in which from the fund for the most needy children, eventually one television shows up by accident, even though they were there to follow the event, made it important, for parents and children, which is certainly something everyone wants, turns out to be a new affair. And what the minister tells us, get away. So we don't have a statement or a diameter, we don't have Minister Coric, we don't have a statement or Minister Murganic, what these packages are doing there, to whom they are assigned. If you look at the help fund most needed, there are clear criteria, there's nothing to run from. Someone needs to be obvious about it or someone needs to get hurt, but something has to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55967	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic. The next break on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, a respected colleague, Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55968	Dear colleagues, we are still deep in the post-Communist period, we have this hangover and it's nonstop, this topic is constantly censored in... Media, politics, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, private property, is one of the fundamental human rights that mentions the European Convention on Human Rights. And what's going on? Here, Croatia signed the contract, in fact the SAP agreement, so-called Stabilisation and this... in the former post-communist countries with the EU, she signed the deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going on? What is the law on confiscation that was implemented, Croatia prescribed it in '96. years of return of property. In Zagreb alone, we have 3700 apartments, where they live. Protected tenants who broke into apartments in '45. A year. Those apartments don't come back. It's only in Zagreb. What about Split, Zadar, the most elite neighborhoods in Zagreb, other places there on islands, etc.? These people won't get out, they're nice. So what? I hear now that the return law of that property has been delayed for 10 years. Well, it's rape not only justice, it's common sense. Who lives in those apartments? Are those ex-functioners? The members of the red nobility? Their children? Well, again, the European Court of Human Rights says that they, the real owners, must be compensated for that. Nothing's going on. They not only have to pay for the maintenance of these apartments, where someone else's lives in their properties, but they have to receive 130 kunas per month some sort of symbolic one, and you, so-called. protected tenants have other properties that have not been reported and that is a criminal offence. What can we expect from the parties sitting here in the Parliament, where one of the party's main leaders says we must return the spirit of collectiveization and in 1945. Here, I'd send him to the Bus Station Camp Channel where old Zagreb went missing. It's the current theme, not '45. A year. I'm talking about a return of property. That's where old Zagreb disappeared. These people were open, they were killed, there were six barracks there. That's where Grandpa would be if he moved into their apartments. Here he recently died, that's the wrong word died, and Comrade Stjepan Hršak, the head of the Krapina OZNA, who lived in Tuškanac, an elite villa. And what's going on? These people there, you old man these party members, that privileged red nobility, that criminal organization. They feed chickens in the yard or in the parks feeding pigeons, dying with pensions, they're great, and those who are looking for a return. How many of them are out there can't come back, because someone took their property. Before I mentioned only the German minority who was the driver of modernization in Croatia. She's disappeared from this space. They killed 60,000 things in women, children, old men's camps. The land was seized by the majority of Liechtenstein, which today is worth $11 billion. And what did we get? Here's these people no longer here, we have old personnel, their heirs, and that's why we are, where we are. We need to understand one thing, new laws, this is the conclusion. New laws cannot be made and implemented on the basis of old injustices and crimes. That's what we've got today. We have a vision of some kind of democracy that in general, plural democracy. We have more lawyers than all the countries from Zimbabwe to Australia and nothing. Here we have legal puss and legal legacy of the SFRY's biggest failed experiment in Southeast Europe. The real development and return of investment in Croatia is also impossible, until the issue is resolved, a fundamental human question, is the issue of this private property and it is ignored all the time. That's not the '45 question. Comrades and friends. But I see some still live there, calling for the spirit of collectiveization and '45. All of you, left right wing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55969	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to interrupt your colleagues while they're arguing. Dear colleague Glasnović, I would like to ask you and all the other colleagues and colleagues and I appeal to the statement and to choose words in this House. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55970	Thank you, dear Vice President. First of all, let me thank you for this intervention that you had after your fellow Glasnović stepped in, and I apologize, but I have to react because my colleague Glasnović, when he talks about protected tenants, persistently violates Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because by its conduct, it deviates from the general rules of conduct and degrades an entire group of citizens. I would warn you that this is not the first time that in a very negative context it speaks of protected tenants. On one occasion, he called them bandits, and today he told all protected tenants that they had broken into their homes. And you and I both know that's not true and that's why I'm going to ask you that if Mr. Glasnović continues this way to talk about protected tenants to apply the rule in Article 240(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and to take away his word for insulting a group of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55971	I thank my colleague, Peggy. I believe that before your violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have given my reasons a warning and a request and an appeal and to Mr. Glasnović and all MPs and MPs. Thank you very much. We move on to the next reason for the break, a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac, appeared on behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55972	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The holiday season began yesterday and officially, but for Croatian citizens this holiday season is not happy because the dissations continue during that period. So all 365 days of the year are ruthlessly prolonged. Croatian citizens throw themselves into the street, the whole family, and that is among other reasons why there are no colleagues from the Living Wall here because they are trying to protect those families that are right now as I speak end up on the road. I would like to point out that in this House of the High particularly on this side of my right, MPs have repeatedly swore that they would stop being kicked out of her home that began in 2010 intensively when the minister became Drazen Bosnjakovic so that the same minister would again be on duty after seven years and again saying that he would do something about it, but we can see that nothing is being done. It is really sad to know that in Croatia we have a constitution that according to point 1 says that the Croatian social state, according to point 34, is invulnerable, that we have a state where tens and tens of thousands of properties stares, and that even in pre-Christmas time, we throw people into the streets, that they become homeless. Every day, but literally every day, here and now 15 minutes ago they call me families who sleep on the railway station, who sleep in parks, they call me the owners of the OPGs from the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, where due to their small debts, let's say 10 or 15 thousand euros, the milkers are taking away their property 10, 15 times bigger. So the principle of proportionality that has been accepted in international law in all EU countries is completely violated, this principle exists. In your “Reliable” Programme on page 73, you have written that you will stop the raid from the only home. Representative Peric laughs, she will not, of course, she has large receipts, she is chairman of the Committee on Finance that does nothing, she has a nice pine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55973	Mr. Bunjac, I would kindly ask you in your reason for the break do not belittle and insult any of the present colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55974	She's laughing, she's laughing. So come on, Mr. Brkic, let's go sit in a taxi, let's go visit the family is there five kilometers away that ends up on the street, then laugh. Let's go laugh you and me when it's so funny, you think it's funny. You're soulless people. ... Then what's he laughing at? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, is he laughing at the funeral, sir, too if he's laughing at himself. Well, there are situations where people don't have to laugh. Do they exist? I'm talking about people ending up on the street, losing all the property that's gonna sleep on cold concrete tonight, and that's none of your business. The only thing that matters to you is what Branimir Bunjac says, it's all that matters to you, and those families that have nothing to do with me or the Living Wall, etc. It's none of your business, it's none of your business. You want Croatia without Croats, you move people. Your prime minister gives permission to import 32000 Chinese. What does he care? He'll bring in $3 million if he has to. All the Croats will be thrown out. It's your policy, national when you keep your hands on your chest, and you see what the consequences are. And the easiest thing to do is to shut me up, you think the problem will go away if I stop talking. You're not actually embarrassed that the problem exists but you're embarrassed that I'm talking about it, that's the problem, you don't want to hear it, you don't want to hear your hearts are hard and it's very, very, very stone gentlemen. And you of course now, it is important for you to come to this law on proportionate regional development, which development, development which, in proportion to the destruction of Croatia. It's your program. You want to talk here about some parameters about some items, and what you're going to do with that family. Your president, who even she can't watch you talk anymore, let's let the MPs of a family take a home, send us some action. Let's go. Okay. to house one family, and on the other hand let thousands of families stay on the street for Christmas. Very sad. It's time to do something about it. You have a majority, do something about it, and you'll never see me after this pay phone to talk about it again, problem solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55975	Thank you, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55976	Your Honor, Vice President. Thank you for your intervention. This is where Mr. Bunzac can say what he wants, but I don't allow anyone to be called, especially me. I have reason to react and I have not listened to yours, and what we as a party and as an institution have to do, it is seen from all these proposed laws and measures and you cannot touch any of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55977	I thank my colleague, Peric. I would ask both you and all your colleagues and colleagues when you use the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure to call on an article of the Rules of Procedure that has been injured. And once again, you'd ask everyone to choose words, not to go into each other's words because there's a place, a time and a way for everything. Thank you very much. We move on, on behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Stjepan Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55978	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, we are once again witnessing that the north of Croatia and Međimurje not only are they not a priority to the current government and state institutions, but in fact, our people are being threatened in the worst possible way, our fertile soil is poisoning, destroying all the efforts of our farmers and putting our health and health generations behind us. I don't want to prejudge the results of the inspection services, but no matter what they may have been, I'm interested in the following, and not just me, but the entire Međimurje public. First of all, how is it possible for a company that does not have the necessary permits or has the necessary capacity to resuscitate the wastewaters of the city of Zagreb through the basis of a public tender? According to all the rules of the mud industry, it is not possible to burn at all, and the city of Zagreb has concluded a contract with a company that claims to burn something that it cannot and at the same time has neither the necessary technology nor the permission to burn. Secondly, as it is possible that no one has controlled the way the said work is done and we also have information that the inspection has been reported on several occasions that the worst type of crime is taking place, that the ecocyt of Croatian fertile soils. A different conclusion than this is not possible. The Croatian ladies and gentlemen are ruled by the waste mob. I think you're all aware of that because this kind of thing happens, a lot of people are lurking, inspections, the most interesting thing is when this came out on Friday, when it was called inspection, of course state inspections don't do it on the weekends, so why would people spoil the weekend, they have small salaries, a lot of work, why would they spoil their weekend, if someone was poisoning the fertile soil in our Croatia, they'd wait till Monday fine, so we'll see what it is on Monday. There is, of course, a story, you remember the story recently about the mega-instinct of Jozinović who made deals for himself, was both the administration and the director and the assembly and paid for it at the salary of extra bonuses, and when it wasn't even enough the gentleman paid for it, he paid himself a million kuna, I think you all know that, and things like that don't only happen in Piskornica, but in many and other businesses so that it definitely has to end with such things. And thirdly, I'm as interested in the Mediterranean public as it is possible for the Zagreb mud of the Međimurje farmers to land on orans without their knowledge. Who is this person, a group or a company that is rich in the health of Međimurac? While some are rich in garbage and become millionaires of the citizens of Čakovec and Međimurje are poisoned by it. It's embarrassing, inadmissible, and I demand an urgent demonstration of all the competent authorities and the Minister of the Environment himself. Let Mr Tomislav Coric prove that every end of Croatia is equally important and sanctions those who have allowed such waste crime. Also, let Mr Bandic make it very clear on what criteria this job has been awarded to a company that does not have the appropriate permission. How does this comment Dubravko Pride Director of the Environmental Protection Fund? What will the said gentleman do to stop the threat to the health of Croatian citizens and waste crime? What I can say is, this is really embarrassing, we in Međimurje have a system of wastewater disposal, the first city is the town of Čakovec that has 100% coverage of municipal infrastructure, we've made the first agglomeration, we're really investing considerable resources to preserve the environment for our future generations, for our children, and then this kind of thing happens, that someone who does today how to separate waste and the town of Čakovec does it, in Međimurje is doing it for more than 15 years. We have an action called "What Waste Meths." Our people take care of waste on the doorstep, they sort it on the doorstep, and at the very top we're at the disposal of waste in the Republic of Croatia, and then there's this embarrassing crime happening to us that other people's waste that had to be taken care of somewhere else that's dangerous for our fertile Međimurian land throws on our land without the knowledge of the people who live there. It's a shame, inadmissible, and I demand that all competent authorities and institutions be shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55979	I thank Mr. Stjepan Kovac for the reason of the break. Next break on behalf of the HSS Club, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55980	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to discuss the recapitalisation of the HPB, or... privatization of the only state bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main assembly of this company was called in December 8th, this bank which was here yesterday at 12.30 p.m. has been carefully delayed to interpret the media because of pressure from a group of small shareholders in this bank who have 27% of the underlying capital and the state 73%, due to pressure from the media and parliamentary representatives. Why is it going to privatise the only Croatian bank, the HPB? Instead of being wronged in the 1990s when banks in Croatia were rehabilitated and sold for change and these same banks continued to operate in Croatia, so I dare say without state control. The result is that each year they made huge profits from the Republic of Croatia and made over 5 billion kuna in Croatia for the last year. And on the other hand, we have 330,000 blocked citizens, we have a strong pressure of insolvency in the economy and crafts especially in the agricultural sector. And it should be stressed that in this particular 5 billion, over 20% of their profits are achieved by the basis of high interest, higher than in the EU and based on fees and fees which, here and the courts confirm that they are in a certain part and illegal even when the opposition has also proposed that Mr. Alexic regulate this area by amending the law and that banks end up doing so because it comes from the opposition. And on the other hand, quietly trying to privatise the only state bank. And there would be nothing strange about it because it needs to strengthen the HPB, it needs to be recapitalised not 600 million kunas as announced that a decision is going to be made to go into recapitalisation but also over a billion. Why? Because this bank is forced to resuscitate the Adriatic Bank, I hope that's not the case and that's not the only reason. And because this bank must reserve more than 200 million kuna for transfers to Agrokor and the Agrokor companies that will not be able to charge. Private shareholders have rebelled against this silent recapitalisation for the reason that existing shareholders would be completely excluded from the right to capitalise and the right to register shares would have only private investors. That's how it was announced. And it's a good thing that the company's main assembly is hitched because it certainly needs to open up space to strengthen this bank, to enable pension funds to be placed in this bank because we need to secure a safe contribution to pension funds in order to have the stability of the pension system because that's what our pensioners are asking us to do. And what do we do? We wanted to privatize this bank. We at HSS are asking that this bank remain largely state-owned and that this bank become a bank service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, state institutions. It has 1,100 branches by municipalities, cities and counties and this is certainly an opportunity that other banks do not have through such a network to be available to the OPGs, we have no agrobank, it has been announced in pre-election campaigns that one agrobank will be made or how they like to say it from the Association Life, a bank in boots that will hear about the OPGs, crafts and entrepreneurs especially the context of European funds. You have a situation where OPGs and crafts prepare projects, to invest their resources in which they do not have enough, to be in debt and the other parties are waiting for a year, two for the realization of these projects. Here are the latest examples where the units of local self-government that can and should be partners with the HPB and then should be a service to them in the preparation of their projects, in pre-financing and co-financing of EU projects, it happens that they themselves have to show themselves on the market, so here we are against this privatisation of the HPB and we are looking for a public debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55981	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic for the reason of the break. Next break on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here comes the second morning of fellow Panenic insinuating possible privatisation of HEP. I suppose that was done by counterpart Panenic for the reason that yesterday's first reading discussed the law on changes and additions to the Water Act, which addresses the issue of HEP property among others. I believe that it is in the interest of all MPs as well as the representatives of the Most and that it is in the interest of the Croatian state to determine what is the property of the Croatian state or what is public good and what is owned by HEP. The fact is that, at this point, on the basis of the request of the State Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia, HEP has been granted and disclaimed with all its assets which are both on public good and which are indeed owned by HEP. And this fact weakens HEP's market position and we are obliged here in the Croatian Parliament to pass a law allowing HEP, on the one hand, to register on the property that was acquired by contracts with legal or physical persons and on the other hand to obtain the right to build on buildings located on public goods. It was the intensity of yesterday's law, so the strength of HEP. When we talk about the privatisation of HEP, then we must say that the 2002 law passed a law that envisioned the privatisation of HEP during Racan's government. That in 2010, so during the HDZ government we put aside the law on the privatisation of HEP and no further privatisation of HEP can happen without the adoption of laws in the Croatian Parliament. At this point in no institutions of the Republic of Croatia, therefore neither in the resolution ministry nor in the government and then clearly nor in the Croatian Parliament, the possible privatisation of HEP is being discussed. Therefore, this fear of the Croatian public with some strange, secular privatisation of HEP is inappropriate and I don't know why my colleague Panenic is here the second day in a row. What we are repeating in HDZ, so without the law there is no privatisation of HEP, whether it will move or not to open possible privatisation, can only be made by making a decision on the subject. So far, as far as I have information, and I think I have pretty good information, nowhere in any institution, not one forum discusses it. And with the discussion of the Water Act that we conducted yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, and I suppose very quickly passing the law itself will only contribute to the strength of HEP, so I would ask colleagues from MOST if they have any other information to make it clear because, as far as I am concerned, yesterday, during the debate itself when it was possible to discuss it, we did not hear any argument that would go into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u55983	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bran Bacic, for the reason of the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56031	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Regardless of your excessive view, because you obviously don't like to give it very much, but we have to because the topic is extremely important. It is about the new Government proposal, about the minimum wage and we must say our position and that in fact Croatian citizens hear the amazing solutions that Andrej Plenkovic is coming up with. Here's what you'd like to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56032	Now, a colleague of Maras has asked for a break, does any other club want the same break? HDZ Club. Any other clubs? No, thank you very much. I'll see you in... All right, I asked you guys to pick up on time. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know, but don't talk to anyone else if we have to argue here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, of course I'll let you talk, too. ... Can I help you, darkness? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56033	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club about the situation in HACOM.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56034	Okay. But now, please, let's not pick up any more. ... All right, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've asked three times who has it. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56035	Here's the Honorable Vice President, I'm you, I've raised my hand but you've been looking at HDZ so you haven't seen me, I'm sorry. I'm kidding. [[It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, ……]] I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club on minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56036	Okay, thank you. I hope there's no one else. I'll see you in 13.10 minutes. [[It's 1:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, the break is over, so let's go in turn, first of all, instead of a respected representative, Marasa will speak on behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56038	Dear Mr Vice President, I would like to look at the measures adopted today by the Government and which will have direct consequences on the labour market in Croatia. The SDP wants to tell the Croatian public that the government is dangerously degraded by the rights of workers in Croatia for several reasons. Today, a minimum wage regulation has been adopted that increases the minimum wage of 131 kuna, which not only violates the dignity of workers on the minimum wage, but offers these workers no perspective of staying and working in Croatia. Also, workers in Croatia expect this minimum wage as a charity given to them by the government. Gentlemen, a minimum wage of 131 kuna is not something that should be expected at this time when the economy is recovering to be a minimum wage increase. Workers in Croatia deserve more. The government lacks a clear goal and a vision of the growth of minimum wage because Croatian workers need to know how much minimum wage will be in some longer period of time. Not to depend on the good will of the government. Yes, Mr. Bacic will say at a time when the SDP was not an increase in the minimum wage but a minimal freeze. No, it's not true, we've increased the minimum wage but in the extent that we could and we've left you to move on now, and you've gone backwards and you haven't given the workers what you should have given. The rise in minimum wage of 131 kuna is degraded and workers in Croatia deserve more. However, the compensation measures proposed by the government are not something to be admired by HDZ because they are definitely measures that will allow for even more work to be done on black in Croatia. The government instead of curbing work on black, compensation measures stem employers and workers from working on black. Taking money to health care is an equally scandalous measure that will directly affect the reduction of availability and quality of health care. And I can say that this is not a minimum wage regulation for workers, but this is a minimum wage regulation for employers. And what you HDZ gentlemen will experience is that you will have a minimum wage explosion in the next period because employers will be cheaper to put the worker on the minimum wage and give the rest to him. You're promoting work on black instead of suppressing it. As for the quota which is another scandalous measure taken at the meeting of this government because instead of the quotas being fire and fire-fighting measures, you are knowingly preparing the ground for employers to increase labour quotas. This is visible because the cost of working in tourism is facilitated, and not because the government wants it, it is the case of Minister Pavić, because by means of his directive, Europe requires you to allow workers to have quality working conditions and nutrition for those who work in tourism. The government has prepared an area with quotas for employers who are obliged by EU directives to ensure decent working conditions for seasons and the cost rather than costing their employers, see the devil, it takes over the country itself. What the government should have done was increase the minimum wage to at least 45%, ensure that the minimum wage is adjusted so that it does not fall in the average wage over a year, precisely by law prescribe the minimum wage growth dynamics over a year so that workers and employers have certainty, that they know how much they will have minimum wage by 2, 3, 4 or 5 years. And most importantly, make it possible for employers to have a transition period and a transition possibility to increase the minimumer rather than the cost of that transition being taken over by the state. Gentlemen, this is a minimum wage not for workers but a minimum wage for employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56039	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Mrsic, if you had been teleported from the day you were Minister for this same pay phone and then released this same speech that you have now given and the one that you were then talking about this problem as when you were minister, you would have been embarrassed. So, what's the SDP problem? The problem with the SDP is that it cannot confirm the fact that the HDZ and this government keep their pre-election promises. And his pre-election program that was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament when the government was appointed. It says in accordance with the possibilities to increase the minimum wage in the term of office of this government, so I will remind you. Since the minimum wage of 1 January 2013 was introduced until the end of your term as Minister and your Government, a minimum wage of 135 kuna or 4.4% was raised in the nominal amount. That's the exact data. So in a year of this government, the minimum wage has increased 10%. So 5% last year at the same time and now 5% or a total of 320 kuna. So in a year almost three times, to be exact, almost three times the minimum wage was increased for the difference between when you were the minister and when the SDP was in power. So I can't take the impression that you're trying to reduce, minimize the government's achievements, or this coalition government, and that's why you're proposing a law that you yourself know you can't achieve. If what you're doing were even weirder, I would remind you that in the time you proposed the Law on raise minimum wages, at the same time you reduced wages to two employees in the SDP and people because they felt threatened, organized in the SDP into a union to save their jobs, and then I was quite missed by your and transparent concern for employees when you don't care about your employees. Therefore, the growth of minimum wages in Croatia takes care of the most vulnerable workers in Croatia as they increase their wages by 10% on the one hand and the other also takes care of employers. Namely, minimum wage, and certainly all our viewers and listeners know, not the government but the employers pay off, and primarily employers who deal with the leather, textile and wood industries. And by increasing the minimum wage that is one of the most important items in the business expenditure of these same employers brings and threatens the business of these employers at all. And on the one hand, this concern of yours that would lead to a minimum wage increase so quickly would endanger all their jobs and endanger the employer, which is why our goal is to increase the minimum wage but at the same time enable employers to make sure that they can pay you minimally, and in that sense there were compensatory measures. Compensation measures went for reasons not to endanger the employer if he then went into bankruptcy or shut down his firm and thus fired the workers. So, this method slowly increases the minimum wage on the one hand, on the other hand by compensatory measures towards the employer is trying and trying to increase the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. And our goal is also to get a minimum wage at 50% of the average gross salary in Croatia. That's our goal, even if it goes beyond that. Now with this measure adopted today by the government, this government regulation, the minimum wage goes to 43%. So before this government came, it was somewhere between 35.36%, now it came to 43%. The minimum wage in Croatia will reach 43% of the average gross salary. And that's not the end, I expect other measures to strengthen the position of precisely those of the most endangered workers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I cannot get the impression that you cannot accept the fact that macroeconomic indicators in Croatia show that the economy is growing at 3.2%, that the average salary at 5% is increasing, that exports are growing, that production is growing, that trade is growing to a little over 6%. So, these are all macroeconomic indicators that Croatia is going in the right direction, and in that sense it should, I agree with you, take care of those who are the most vulnerable, and these are workers with minimum wage but I am not inclined to put a minimum wage increase in the position of jeopardising an employer who is forced to pay such minimum salaries and this method and policy saves employees from these employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56041	Thank you. A colleague Mrsic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure, which article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56042	In 238, therefore, during the debate, the representative should talk about the subject which was announced and not about the other topic, therefore the colleague Bačić spoke about the SDP and the salaries. Vice President, it has nothing to do with minimum wage or anything to do with the subject, so he talked about what was not announced. Therefore, Mr. Bacic could have talked about the subject he was talking about, used to... No arguments, then it's easy to reach out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In his discussion, I spoke in no word about the privatisation conducted by HDZ, the theft conducted by HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56043	My colleague Bacic was talking about minimum wage. I ask you not to speak any further because the Rules of Procedure are not injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56044	.../Intruder Mrssic: is, Mr. Bacic was injured because Mr. Bacic did not talk about the topic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56045	My colleague didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to stop. You are aware of the abuse of the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you and the others not to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56046	... [[- Intruder Maras, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56047	You must be the last colleague of Maras, right, always? I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56048	... [[- Intruder Maras, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56049	I give you a second warning, colleague Maras. Now we'll move on to the next club, and that's the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists on behalf of the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56050	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. On October 13th, here in this House, we had a debate on the annual report by HACOM, in which we called the president of the HACOM Council a number of questions, among other things, on the judicial verdict according to which Drazen Lučić, President of the Council, and Mario Weber, the director, were found guilty because they banned the establishment and operation of the union in the state agency that founded this very Croatian Parliament. We also talked about the confirmed DORH indictment against Drazen Lučić for a criminal offence committed by acting as president of the council, about irresponsible investment in a building which, due to the provisions of the spatial plan, cannot be put into office, about violating the law on public procurement when negotiating legal services, and we did not get the answers. While we are waiting for answers, the union commissioner in HAKOM was fired after the labour court had determined four times that the union commissioner had done something that he had not done after the infringement court found that the union's activities had been prohibited in HACOM, after the criminal court found that the senior public embarrassment of the union commissioner and after he found that the president of HACOM's council was being prosecuted by the unionist for their actions. So Drjen Lučić is the person who appointed this Croatian Parliament, who corresponds to the Parliament for his work, and refuses to answer the questions asked by the employer. In this House, for four years some of our colleagues, including myself, have reacted, condemning the way HACOM works, namely, in the wake of the order of the president of HACOM Council Drazen Lučić. HDZ colleagues tried to discredit us all this debate and show that we are personally at war with Mr. Lucic, denying all the unquestioned evidence that we have shown the media. I would like to remind that these irregularities were also pointed out by fellow MPs from previous meetings, here's counterpart Vuksic from Labour, then today's State Property Minister, Goran Maric, who at the time warned while he was in opposition, at the highest price of rent paid in the hack at Sky Office by a private landlord, and at the find of state audit, which identified the irrationality, amount of squares and price, Mirela Holly also warned of that. And here during the debate we had last, he warned of these irregularities, it was very professionally justified, a colleague from the SDSS, a fellow Milosevic, who claimed it was unacceptable for Mr Lucic to violate our laws mocking MPs, that he did not want to answer questions. What is important to point out, it turns out that DORH, the courts, the USCOK, the Ombudsman, the Labour Inspector, all the institutions of this country are not half as important as the position of Drazen Lučić in HACOM. That's how it ends up. For a year now, there have been files in the government of HACOM and Minister Butkovic's proposal for the president and deputy to be resolved. Every week, people's questions on the party's key are resolved, it's named, the ruling majority is cemented, which is thin. But those who do the opposite of the law, meaning like Mr. Lucic, they have full trust year after year, and they are constantly confirmed by some new illegality. Lucic's mandate expires in February 2018, we expect that a public call will be issued these days for the proposal of a new HACOM council and it is interesting to gain the favor of the largest and most influential operator on the market, HT and to ensure its impact in the near election for council members, current council president Drazen Lucic resorts to all permitted and inappropriate, all allowed and appropriate methods. Thus, only 2 months before the end of the term of office, the installation rule of buildings is lifted, and the light-water distribution network Regulation, and without adequate replacement in other decisions and regulations, the removal of the said regulations, is disrupted by the balance in the competition, in part of the lighting networks. Access to newly built networks for other operators is closed and users reduce the amount of services with another operator. As possible, it is possible that a new appointment is sought by a man against whom a criminal charge has been confirmed, who has committed the duties of the president of the HACOM Council against whom a number of judicial disputes are being conducted, who has banned the work of the union and who does not respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And not only is Lucic asking for support, Lucic publicly trades with the influence that stems from his position. These days, Hacom donated 5 million kuna to the MUP. The same MUP that should be investigating the cloudy sexes of Drazen Lucic who signed the donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56051	And the last club of representatives of the HSS in the name of which the respected representative, Željko Lenart, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56052	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, 131 kn. When we look at it maybe from this angle, it's not much money. For those who dig through containers, a lot, for those who have children, tenants are a lot, but something that only prolongs agony. Average salary in Croatia 43%. It says the ruling and reduction of employers' contributions to minimum wage 50%. I agree that employers also need to reduce the fees, which must be given to the state, fiscal and parafiscal, that they are also overloaded, but employers are cornered. They drive in fat Mercedes or BMWs and the poor with 131 kuna and a minimal don't even have bread. We are lagging behind in relation to the transition countries. From 2008-2017 Bulgaria raised its minimum wage by 100%, Slovakia by 80%, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by 64-69%, and Croatia increased its minimum wage in that period by 15%. But with this minimum wage, we have to tie up purchasing power, i.e. prices in transition countries of basic purpose and also prices in the Republic of Croatia, which are often more often than they are in the most developed EU countries, such as Germany and France. It's easy to say, that here, the hills were shaking, there was a mouse born, of 131 kn, who won't know what to change these people who receive minimum wage. Because even from that minimum wage, which the worker gets, the net on his hands is a quarter of the state. Because everything they buy, they have to pay for a 25% VAT, so that's what the state will pick up and the state's apparatus lives on. We come up with a problem of underpaid workers, low minimum wages, and even messy payouts, I remember when I worked at a private company, three months later the salary was not paid. We come to this, the exodus of Croats in developed countries in which, even with their minimum wage, they can live solidly, compared to Croatia. And then we wonder why our people left. Why are Croatian workers valued in the EU? Why does the Minister of Labour and Social Care in Germany say that Croats are welcome in Germany? Its data is that up to now there are 93 thousand Croats, because they are high-quality workers who, no matter how much we defile our education system, have the will to work and are valuable and among the best workers, are on baustalls throughout Germany and Europe. Do you think that the workforce that we are going to introduce will be able to replace the Croatian workforce in this way? There are businessmen here, I ask them if they think that someone from Syria or from some third countries will be able to replace Croatian workers? Gentlemen, he won't be able to replace it because the Croatian worker is of quality regardless of what we think it is true. Unfortunately, here are the words about increasing GDP, about positive trends in the Republic of Croatia, and I honestly don't believe it because if it weren't for people leaving Croatia, we wouldn't be emptying Slavonia, we wouldn't be emptying out some other parts where there's no industry, where we work. So here I am in Kutina where Petrochemia, people who have a steady job, regular pay, just quit their job, and with little children, they go the way of Europe. Therefore, when we talk about minimum wage, it is only one crumb in this system that is falling apart and I appeal to those who today have this possibility of power, that force in their hand to take a little more care of the Croatian man about the small worker, about who is essentially creating and paying into the Croatian tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u56053	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63555	We move to the agenda point: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 241 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings and the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate on the basis of Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. I call on the representative of the motions to Mrs. Garriel Žalac, the Minister of Regional Development and the EU Fund to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here is the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which sets out the objectives and principles of regional development policy, as well as the regulated issues of strategic planning of regional development, institutional framework and governance of regional development of evaluation and classification of units of local, regional, regional self-government towards the degree of development and separation of assisted areas, fostering regional competitiveness and urban development, encouraging measures for the development of assisted areas and other areas with developmental specificities, and monitoring and reporting on regional development policy. During the application of the law, it was observed that some of the issues to be regulated by it were not legally fully settled, and in an implementing sense, they were effectively and coherently resolved. They also point to more and more frequent remarks concerning certain provisions thereof, as well as sublaws adopted for the purpose of the application of this law. This need is also recognised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016, 2020 programme, which aims to promote the even development of all parts of Croatia, including the revision of the model of the development index, the strengthening of the role of regional coordinators, and the creation of a new Law on Supported Areas. Following that particular legal solution, it is necessary to improve it, i.e. to comply with already adopted regulations or regulations, which are under way. Key amendments and additions to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia include the following, which is a model of calculation of the development index, and a new way of classifying units of local and regional self-government according to the development index and associated different identification of assisted areas. A new designation of legal status and the part-round of regional coordinators, and the procedure of their accreditation. The management of the development of assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities is prescribed to regulate specific laws. Exclusion from this law of provisions relating to incentive measures for the development of assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities in order to include them in the new Law on assisted areas and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas currently under construction. Conformity of the provisions of the law with other regulations and amendments to the provision governing the conclusion of a development agreement. As regards the new model of the calculation of the development index and the new way of sorting units of local (area) regional self-government according to the development index, and the related different identification of assisted areas, I must say that the evaluation of the current model of the development index has been carried out, and a new calculation proposal for the development index has been developed. The results of the evaluation and the proposal for a new model of calculation of the development index were pooled in the Study Evaluation of the existing and new model of calculation of the index of development of units of local, regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, developed by the Centre for Local Economic Development of the University of Economics, i.e. the University of Rijeka. To test simulations and calculations, and based on this ranking and classification of units of local, regional self-government, an information application of the ESTAT development index was used which was established in 2016. This expert background and information system of the ESTAT are the result of certain tasks defined by our ministry for the purpose of measuring the level of development of territorial units, i.e. their classification in groups according to the development index. According to the findings of the same-named evaluation, the largest limitation of the current model of calculation of the development index refers to the index calculation process itself, i.e. the application of inadequate standardisation and aggregate methods, i.e. summation of indicators and the application of arbitral weighting of indicators, which resulted in an unfair assessment and classification of local and county units according to the development index. The key findings of the current development index evaluation can be summarised in the following four groups of findings. In the case of selection of indicators, their acceptability has been established in view of the selected thematic indicator of measures of key economic fiscal and demographic outcomes of development processes. However, the need to modify the demographic component of the development index has been recognised. As regards the standardisation process, it has been found to lead to a significant overestimation of the standardised values of indicators that have a high variation coefficient, and consequently to the pre-reliance of their weights in the composite index's value structure The process of aggregated, i.e. the summation of indicators based on simple linear summation, leads to small, therefore unfavourable values of one indicator being substituted, i.e. compensate for the high favourable values of other indicators. The use of arbitral weighting and unequal, therefore the weighting system for all units distorts the image of the importance of certain indicators in the measurement and assessment of the achieved degree of local and regional development. The established methodological disadvantages of the existing model of calculation of the development index have set four basic criteria that had to meet the methodological framework of the new model of calculation of the development index, which are under one upgrade of the demographic component of the index by structural indicators of the population by introducing ageing index indicators and the degree of education according to tertiary education. A better quality measurement of structural and dynamic characteristics of population movement in local and county units has been achieved. Under two, remove the problem of the impact of statistical characteristics of selected indicators on the final value of the development index. Under three, not to allow compensation of values between different indicators in the final value of the composite index and under four to avoid arbitral determination, so weighting. According to the proposal for a new model, the calculation of the development index would include five indicators so far, which are per capital's income, original budget income per capital, unemployment rate, general population movement and population education structure, and population indicators. The development index would be calculated according to the balanced by the z-score method, given the interpretational specificity of the results of the development index obtained by the new methodology, the existing classification is no longer applicable, or a new classification of units of local or regional self-government in development groups is proposed. The new index of development is classified as so far in four groups while units of local self-government are classified into eight instead of the previous five development groups. This provides a more quality basis for the establishment of a diversified and tailored funding programme, given the level of development achieved within each group. This also allows for a wider range of definitions of assisted areas compared to the current ones. Namely, the determination of developed and undeveloped groups is carried out through the distribution of local and regional self-government units, where it always comes from the average threshold of development, and there is an index of 100. According to the new model, the status of the assisted area is acquired relative to the average of the Republic of Croatia all below the average developed unit of local self-government. According to the new model, units of local self-government first to fourth groups and units of regional or local self-government from the first and second groups and all below the average developed territorial unit enter the assisted area. It is also important to say that the five-year deadline, which has been applicable in the current development index, or on the decision to assess and classify for the implementation of five years, has been assessed as too long because it does not leave the possibility of timely and continuous monitoring or change in the achieved degree of development at the local and county level, so the deadline has been reduced to three years. By comparing the preliminary results of the application of the new model to data for the three-year period relating to the data of 2014-2016 with the current state of play or with the latest results of the index according to the existing model, based on the data of the three-year average for the period 2010-2012, the following changes are received in relation to the allocation of assisted areas. According to the current results of the existing development index, the status of the assisted area has 264 units of local self-government while according to the preliminary results of the new model, the status would have 304 units of local self-government. 11 units of local self-government which currently have the status of an assisted area would not achieve that status according to the first results of the proposed new model. 51 units of local self-government which currently lacks the status of an assisted area would achieve this status according to new classification. Of the 119 units of local self-government, which according to the current results of the development index were categorized as above the average of only one unit of local self-government would achieve the status of the assisted area according to the preliminary results of the new index. Of the 173 units of local self-government classified according to the current model's current results in the third group, which have a value per current index of between 75 and 100% of them 50 would, according to the preliminary results of the new model, achieve the status of the assisted area, and in 123 local self-government units would be classified as above the average group of development of 49 in the fifth group, 54 in the sixth group, 19 in the seventh group and one in the most developed eighth group. The proposal for a new model for the calculation of the development index increases the number of units of local self-government that have the status of the assisted area i.e. According to preliminary results, their number is increasing by 40. This increase is even greater when it is taken into account that the new data for the period 2014-2016 would result in only 244 units of local self-government less than the new model according to the current model of the development index. The results of categorisation for the counties show that according to the new model, one county comes out of the assisted areas system and one enters the assisted areas system. The key differences between the current model of the development index and the one we propose is that indicators of the composite index in the current model of development are average income per capita, average income per capita, average unemployment rate, general population movement and share of the educational population, ESS from 16 to 64 years old. The proposal for a new calculation model also has six indicators, average income per capita, average income per capita, average unemployment rate, general population movement and share of the educational population, but in this case VHS and VSS from 20 to 64 years and ageing index. What is not in the new development index compared to the existing one is that there is no weighting but that with this new model valorises every unit of local self-government especially with accurate indicators and data. As regards the calculation methodology, the applicable standardisation methodology, i.e. the minimum-maximum method and the aggregate and summation, does not result in a high level of interpretation reliability and has significant methodological and content constraints. The new methodology for calculating the development index is based on a balanced z-scor methodology which solves the largest part of the restriction of this current one. As regards average values, the key differences in the basic characteristics of the current and proposed new model are summarised in tables which are, of course, part of these amendments and additions and, of course, will be part of the government's regulation and assessment and classification decisions. The key differences are as follows: that the number of development groups in the current model or percentage class is five groups for local self-government units and four groups of units of regional or regional self-government, and in the context of the new development index, these are quantitative groups of eight units of local self-government and four units of regional or regional self-government. I have already said how many units of local self-government enters or exits to this model and that the time limit for the actual evaluation and classification is rather than 5, 3 years. As regards the other amendments to this amendment and the addition of the Regional Development Act, that is to determine the legal status and part-round of regional coordinators and the procedure for their accreditation. The objective of amending and supplementing the law is also a solution to the status which, for the purpose of effective coordination and promotion of regional development, establish units of the area, therefore, self-government. Under the existing law, they can be established, as public institutions, companies or administrative bodies, and it is prescribed which jobs are carried out by public interest. These amendments do not result in regional coordinators having public powers, which is necessary in order to achieve their basic tasks. The implementation has shown that the problem of exactly legal establishment in all county development agencies and the competences of regional coordinators is not sufficiently clearly regulated, which is why the most affected are regional co-ordinators, i.e. county development agencies themselves, and the need for different arrangements, i.e. the arrangements of institutions' competences in the process of accreditation of regional coordinators, as well as the responsibilities for the management of their register. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law shall regulate legal assumptions for the implementation, the following specific objectives set out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme in its 2016, 2020, through appropriate legal solutions. This is the unique legal structure of regional coordinators, where all regional co-ordinators are arranged in the form of a public institution, strengthening the role of regional coordinators, for effective coordination and promotion of regional development, units of regional and local self-government, with a clear definition of roles and competences through redefining roles and competences through redefining transactions of general public interest are arranged in a way that clearly determines the tasks carried out by regional coordinators as public authorities. The involvement of regional coordinators in the decentralised management of EU funds and the implementation of their accreditation process shall be regulated by redefining competences in the accreditation process, regional coordinators and simplification of procedures, and thus reducing the necessary financial resources for accreditation and complexity of the system. It also changes the authority to establish and keep registers of regional co-ordinators and local development agencies, which the agency assumes from the ministry. The amendments to the provisions under which regional co-ordinators operate will benefit from effective implementation of regional development policy, at the county level and better co-operation of the central state with regional and local levels. Furthermore, the team will create preconditions for the involvement of regional coordinators in decentralised EU fund management and for the implementation of their accreditation process, for taking over roles in the EU fund management system in the next financial perspective. These amendments and additions, the management of the development of assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities, which will be regulated by a special law, are also required. Amendments and amendments to the law prescribe a new way of identifying assisted areas and establish a link between the law as a roof document for the implementation of regional development policy with other laws governing the management of the development of the area, whose development of countries is further encouraged. The assisted areas, according to the new model of calculation of the development index, are all below average developed, as regards units of local and regional self-government and development management of these areas, are governed by the new law on assisted areas, i.e. by a new way of sorting territorial units into groups, assisted areas, are those that are classified in the first and second groups and units of local self-government that are classified from 1-4 groups. Areas with developmental specificities are areas which, given their natural geographical, social economic and demographic characteristics, differ from other areas of the Republic of Croatia. The status is prescribed for islands and mountainous mountainous areas. The management of the development of these areas shall be governed by specific laws. And I must also say that in this context, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to making sure that there is a need for areas with developmental specificities, to be declared for other parts of the state territory, and to postpone the Croatian Assembly to adopt appropriate regulations. When we talk about what we want to deal with by law, it is certain that the office is having problems managing the development of assisted areas. The sixth part of the law, which currently prescribes measures for the development of assisted areas and other areas with developmental specificities, is deleted from this law. The provisions of the law, relating to the programme, sustainable, social development of assisted areas, measures and projects for the development of assisted areas and assistance for co-financing, preparation and implementation of projects, remain in force until a new law is passed, which regulates the management of the development of assisted areas. The measure aimed at strengthening the fiscal capacity of local units in the assisted areas currently laid down in Article 43 of the Law, which stipulates that revenue from profit tax achieved in the area of local units, in assisted areas, shall be paid to those units, and shall be extinguished as aid from the state budget. The establishment of a fiscal balancing system, which is introduced by the new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, ceases to apply the existing system of aid based on the index of development prescribed by the law on the implementation of the state budget for a particular financial year. It is also necessary to comply with the laws and sublaws adopted after its entry into force, as well as with whose adoption is planned in the near future. Coordination is carried out with regulations governing the financing of units of local, regional self-government, the establishment of a system of strategic planning and development management, the management of the development of assisted areas, mountainous mountainous areas and islands. The harmonisation of the law with the draft law on the strategic planning system has been fully implemented. Namely, harmonising the provisions governing the planning documents, regional development policies, with the provisions of the proposal of the Strategic Planning System Act, which we also have here on the agenda today, is under way, given that the provisions of this law plan to be compared until 30.6.9.g. This was done because the completion of a number of regional development policy planning documents is under way and at regional level for the current financial perspective in order to avoid possible duplication of norms and strategic documents. Harmonisation with the provisions of other regulations is necessary in order to ensure fullness, coherence and consistency of the overall legislative framework governing regional development policy. What is still a newspaper in these amendments and additions is an amendment to the provisions governing the conclusion of a development agreement. The development agreement agrees with the priorities of state and regional development, i.e. the strategic regional development projects that contribute to the development of areas for which the development agreement is concluded and the means for its implementation are planned. As regards the part of the provision which prescribes the part concerning the current development agreement in the current law, it is to amend part of the provision that a development agreement for those units of regional self-government located within one statistical region is now no longer a restriction. The Ministry is under way a technical assistance project, developing a methodology for making mandatory content and the process of concluding a development agreement and professional support in the design of the first. What the government wants is that the first development agreement is being developed for the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. The law refers to the adoption of an emergency procedure because the law establishes a new legal framework relating to the procedure for assessing and classifying units of local and regional self-government according to the degree of development and establishes assisted areas which corrects the injustice of a larger number of units that have been abolished by a valid methodology. The adoption of an emergency law allows for the implementation of a new procedure for the evaluation and classification of units of local and regional self-government immediately after the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63557	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Gabrieli Zhaozac. We have 16 replicas. The first one was answered by a esteemed colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63558	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here we are talking about a very important law on regional development on the main calculation of the index. But you as a minister are essentially the brakes of regional development because you allocate 10 million kunas of funds without a public tender and it tells your acquaintance more about how much you care about regional development and indexation and how much about your acquaintances. However, I will still ask you a few questions in this replica. You listed the average unemployment rate between the development index. However, this indicator does not recognise the problem of seasonal employment, which creates an unreal picture of unemployment, given the high emigration rate especially in some areas, it is possible that the unemployment rate, most likely, is reduced due to, not due to the reduction of the working-active population, because people are leaving rather than due to improved conditions, economic conditions and general population movement. I think that... I think this indicator is often outdated and incorrect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How you look at a list or logout in the police department or how you do it all, it's very unrealistic. I think we should have taken a sample of the number of children enrolled in schools because we need to know that in the last 10 years, 63,000 first-graders have fewer children than 10 years ago. So it's a huge loss only in the last year of the 1378. So we have 335 thousand children enrolled here compared to those born between 2002 and 2010, we have 317 thousand enrolled, which is not a small number, it's about 18 thousand children less. So I don't think this indexation was well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63559	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next replica, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. We in the IDS represent the view that the most developed regions in Croatia need, should be allowed to continue to develop according to high European standards of development. So I have a brief but specific question. Whether the development locomotives, specifically the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Istria County, are based on these amendments and the addition of the law, will go better and will go worse because we have a firm view that these very counties should be stimulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63561	Thank you, dear colleague Sponza. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Stjepan Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63562	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, what my colleague Sponza was saying to me was of the same interest to me, the town of Čakovec has been in the fourth group so far, you have now placed since the 5th-8th additional group and will again be in this group above the average units of local self-government. I'm also interested in what you're going to do for these cities because you know that we have a problem when we report to some competitions when you put in degree, the rate of development practically we can't get those 20 points that others get and in many competitions you don't get and citizens ask you why you don't get competitions, why you don't answer anywhere. Well, we're not answering because we know we're not gonna get it when we're redeveloped, so to speak. And since this is the Regional Development Act, I think the whole of Croatia should develop evenly. However, it should be given to those units that are below average, units of local self-government but let us not neglect and cut both these cities and counties that are more developed because we too must develop further and not stand in place and stagnate. And another thing I'd like to ask you, I think the other problem is an unequal and unequal attitude towards local development agencies and regional coordinators. You know there are 26 local, regional agencies in Croatia today. In this law of yours, the fact is that regional coordinators are in a much better position than local agencies, and I understand that their jobs are not completely overlapping, and that regional coordinators are a kind of extended arm to the central government at regional level, but I believe that there is certainly room for improving and strengthening the positions of local agencies, so I would pray that even now that you are doing the law, you see and classify it because here are some cities like Chakovec, so 26 of these cities that have their own local agencies that we depend on, which we are competing with, I think you would now be in an unfavourable position towards these local coordinators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63563	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Kovac, for this replica. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63564	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Minister Žalac. So it's clear why this law goes according to emergency procedures. It's not good to go, we should be able to talk more about him, but he's got to go, we're running out of time. Therefore, the financial resources available to us by 2020 according to the data of many units of local self-government, in particular the municipalities, are a very small part of the funds withdrawn. And my actual replica goes that way when we talk about the development index and you're talking about the 51 unit that's going in, 11 will come out, come on I was very pleased when 100 units last entered from Slavonia, they got the status of the assisted area. I can't be hypocritical right now, so let's let these 40 come in and we'll back it up. What's bothering me, we don't really know what the units are yet, maybe some colleagues and colleagues know from some data, but we haven't received that public data. But what concerns me most now is that you represent the Ministry of Regional Development and here we have amendments to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia and where do we have regions? Just in... We in the Republic have no regions and it would be much better and fairer to ourselves and to the citizens why do we call it regional coordinator? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let them be called county coordinators, which they are. Let's use 427 municipalities as much as we have in the Republic of Croatia. Let's do something, I also suggested in the Law on Units of Local Self-Government when he was here to make it possible to combine those more successful with the more unsuccessful, to get the funds as far back as possible. I don't think the law in that section touches the smaller municipalities and the guards at all, and what my colleague was saying, the initiative has to go from below. Anything you impose on the ministry will not get results, the initiative must go from below and help municipalities develop their projects and then get full support from everyone else in the chain that can help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63565	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagaru, for this replica. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63566	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, in your presentation you spoke about this evaluation of the existing situation and the new proposal made by the University of Rijeka, the Faculty of Economics and I remember very well the new methodologies, I remember very well these methodologies from 2010 and 2013 when Minister Greek and the debate was similar to what I suppose today, and in fact it is always this new methodology that would be fairer and more acceptable to municipalities, cities and county. So I'm going to do just that and what this evaluation that you're talking about today, because of the development index, it's about the average income per capita, the average unemployment rate, the general population movement, the ageing index, which is very good because there's the dynamics of population movement, the degree of population education. But I would add another category or at least think of it as such. And in fact, it's about the size of local self-government units, I'm saying that for reasons of great space and a small number of inhabitants, as well as infrastructure-related burdens, that is, communal infrastructure. For example, some municipalities that have 100, 110, 120 square miles [100 km] per square mile [100 km] in their area have more than 100 km [100 km] of unclassified roads, waterways, public surfaces, cemeteries, and that I do not keep counting. Maybe it would be good if with 6 indicators, even that indicator actually surface area of the unit of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63567	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63568	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. We from the HSS welcome what you said, that there is a need to correct the injustice against the units of local self-government that was in the previous period because, according to the indexation that was worth it, a large number of local self-government units were wrongly punished and were not assisted areas. We have an example from Slavonia and Baranja that a municipality that had income per capita of 800 kuna was not in the first group of assisted areas, and one municipality from around Dubrovnik where there was income of 14 000 kuna per capita was a group of assisted areas. And that injustice is certainly one of the elements that contributed to the emigration from Slavonia and Baranja and Srijema, and it must be done urgently and I hope that this new indexation will not have such irregularities. Secondly, it is very important to say that Croatia is divided into two statistical regions. And you and I have spoken repeatedly against it, and you have announced that it will change because it is also a limiting factor for investment in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And I also invite you to coordinate with colleagues from other ministries because for the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, you said that the projects from that region will have a higher number of points to attract more investment and achieve jobs in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem. Let the ministries not follow you, here is the Ministry of Economy for Competition for Entrepreneurs and craftsmen, not having more points for the projects of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. Therefore, I propose that we do not go by law to change the conflict law, we could pass a law on Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and thus contribute to the development of this region in the employment of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63569	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. Next replica, dear colleague Kresho Beljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63570	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Minister. I listened very closely to you in the first part. And I heard in principle your finding of condition. As far as indexation is concerned, you've improved, you've established a new state. Some have developed a little bit more, mostly a little less. And you've established state and made a new indexation. These are not measures, in my opinion it is only a finding, and how to improve and regionally develop Croatia, i.e. to develop Croatia to be uniformly developed these measures has lagged behind. As far as the population is concerned, it would be a good measure to think about it in the government, and here you can suggest that it goes towards the establishment, that is, making a population register. We live in an informed age where a single chip card can reduce the state administration, reduce costs and make life easier for citizens. And in this way, we should not set up agencies, commissions, coordination coordinators in order to determine what is known, or what could be identified by the inside key to the population register. Furthermore, what bothers me in that indexation you simply reduced yourself to the boundaries of administrative units that are badly designed and which should be changed urgently, but it's not your job, it's a state policy job to deal with it. We have too many municipalities in this state. Not too much, maybe we should even have more, but not in a structure like this. So that's what to think about. And what I also saw was that you didn't take into account the climatic differences in indexation. You know, as mayor, I can tell you openly that there are areas in Croatia that are climatic, whose climatic diversity conditions different costs. One plastic example. The road when built in the mountain part of Croatia in Lica is three times less than when built on Hvar or on Brac where there is no snow. The distribution of money in the maintenance of roads, so only one example is the exact same in Lika and the islands, and the costs are multiplely higher in Lika than in the islands. Here's just one example.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63571	I'd like to thank my colleague, Whitey, for the replica. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, you said in your opening statement that the index implemented by the HDZ government in 2009 made the first classification incorrect. I'm going to surprise you so I'm going to say that this index wasn't wrong at all. He was who he was. He introduced one unit into the system, some others didn't, and that was just the situation. Now we have a new index that only changes one thing, which is that it introduces a new indicator called the population ageing index. There will be no significant difference, or there are no significant differences in that index and this practice will show very quickly. But I don't know if colleagues and colleagues here have seen what's the key thing or what's the key to change. Change is not an index. The change is at the threshold of development, or underdevelopment. It is no longer 75% of Croatia's average but it is calmed to 100% if you notice. Read the law again and you will see, and the minister will probably explain it further. By moving that threshold from 75 to 100%, a new 50 units entered the system. According to that logic, we could determine politically that the limit is 120%. Why not? So 30 more units would enter, so the whole of Croatia would be underdeveloped. It's not the intensity of a law like this. In Europe, 75% of the average is the limit between, say, development and underdevelopment even though it's very difficult to set such a strict line at all, but we need to know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63573	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Greek for the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63574	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. We're talking about a very important law, urgent reading, two readings, and it all comes down to regional development and we're talking about a development index. I honestly don't know the purpose of this law except to see me as the head of the local self-government unit in which I'm in class. To be honest, if we are talking about regional development, we should talk about how we will withdraw more money in local self-government units, how we will have a more even development of municipalities and cities. And we're only talking about the development index. I don't really see the purpose of this whole thing together except to see what class I'm in. We were talking...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63575	Ladies and gentlemen, at these moments while you're philosophizing the Gracan family... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63576	Dear colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63577	The Gracanin family is now deposed, breaking into their house... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63578	Dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63579	Your policy is destroying the entire state and it has been shown over the past 27 years and you can be ashamed of everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63580	Dear colleague Pernar, on the basis of Article 241 of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby determine your distance from the session. I'm setting a break until 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63581	Thank you. It's 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63582	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Dear colleague Allen Plerec, continue the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63583	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I was just talking about that here, I expected from this Law on Regional Development, and we know that this is extremely important for every Croat's life, that we have one law that will regulate, that in the units of local self-government, in cities, in municipalities, the counties live better. How to kind of raise the standard of living. This law I've read here, and what we're talking about, we're only talking about the development index, it looks more like just some kind of cosmetics. We'll know what class we're in, but will that improve citizens' living standards? I'm afraid not, just with this. We last talked about local self-government units and about spending 16% of the country's total budget. I compared it with the EU, di cities and municipalities in the EU, get, I don't know, 30 to 60% of the total money in the country. And I expected that part of this law would solve that problem. How do we solve that, that simply in the units of local self-government, we have more money, for infrastructure, for kindergartens, for schools, here I am particularly interested, and this seems like a slight cosmetic change. Although in this indexation I also have some comments, Branko was talking about, that the index so far wasn't so bad, but we here in this indexation, we haven't figured out what to do with what's going on in local self-government units. And we should consider that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63584	I thank my colleague, Prelecu, once again for interrupting your line, but good. We have passionate and emotional agents, who unfortunately don't control their emotions, who are legitimate. We move on, next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you have answered almost all the questions in the light of these amendments and the addition of the Regional Development Act, but not all of them. In fact, a little indexation, therefore, a new development index, which is more sophisticated, better as they say, will replace an old development index, which is poor, which is unfair. However, according to this old development index, local self-government units, which were classified below the average development of the Republic of Croatia, had certain benefits, had certain benefits and these concrete financial benefits, in the sense of, therefore, the first and second categories, a greater share in 88% of income tax. Equally islands and mountainous mountain areas of 66% share of income tax. They had the right to share in the profit tax. They had the right to share in profit tax, they had the right to organic rents, to rent out mineral raw materials. So what you have not responded to in the light of this law is that these are the new tools of regional development, which will therefore be units of local self-government, which will be classified according to this new development index in assisted areas, therefore, which are tools, which they will have specifically for their own reasons. Because, by adopting the Law on the financing of local self-government, a categorically rejects the development index as a criterion for granting any assistance and thus, we are actually losing the main tool of regional development and this new bill proposal, the new tool of regional development, does not bring at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63586	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Damir Malacana. Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63587	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned in your speech and, of course, some figures regarding myself, new units, and for me as a person coming from Slavonia, near Baranja, from Osijek Baranja County, which by the previous law, I believe in 2014 increased the number of my municipalities from 22 to 37, from 42. Look out, we're the most developed Slavonic county. This, regardless of whether new measures are introduced, age indices and an increase in the education structure, or whether something counts, 75 of the average or 100% of the average. Although I think I understand that everyone below average is less developed, so they belong to these four groups, those above them are bigger, and I think that's fairer. Now Osijek-Baranja County is likely to receive more than 90% of such municipalities. Of course, what does that mean? This means, for and what is not said here, and it is very important, and that was the case then, for all companies that have 5 or more employees for a certain time, reliefs, related to profit taxes, the same thing regarding crafts with 2 employees. Also, about the relief on income tax. So these are real... The others are of course, as regards the very possibilities of using and European funds, of course, as well as the state resources themselves, and we need to know that when we talk about regional development, there is an economic postulate that I always like to mention, which I'm going to paraphrasise a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which says, for example, that the state is as strong as it is, its, or its weakest link. Unfortunately, according to this and the data, which we have here almost half of our units, so here, if I counted correctly, 304, from, when we take out the counties, so 304 to 556 fall below the average of development. So we're not talking about one link, we're talking about more of them. Especially in Slavonia, Baranja, and Croatia can never be an advanced country, while leading Slavonia and Baranja in such a state and I think that these laws and those other income tax laws, which we will have and which we have, certainly help to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63588	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Churay, and the replicas. The next replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63589	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished ministers with associates, so here I can say that we've all had some great expectations, from this new proposal for the Regional Development Act. We actually had expectations of a development index where I don't see any major changes in relation to the existing development index. A few colleagues have already mentioned it here. So besides this introduction of the age index and this change in the share of the educational population, we have nothing else. What I expected, and already some of my colleagues mentioned here in the debate itself, and often that is what local leaders stressed that some more weights are added to the development index itself. So that's primarily what I want to say is the state of municipal infrastructure. We have a huge difference in the state of municipal infrastructure. In particular, I come from the town of Pregrada where 260km of unclassified roads of which we have now come to some 100 km of paved, so this maintenance and construction that is, say, 2, 3km of new asphalting requires some 40% of the budget at the annual level. I expected that we would also take here some index of the state of that municipal infrastructure and start these differences huge, once again, because, for example, the town of Pregrad was never in the status of the assisted area, we were never in the status of the mountain-mounted area, and I think the point of giving some mountain-mount or assisted area is to kind of develop that area, and then actually be an area that won't need help anymore. So in this direction... a colleague mentioned it here, it would be good to also consider it and then it's the right policy of regional development and that in the calculation itself we get something concrete in order to level the standard of municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63590	I would like to thank my colleague Mark Welligaj for this replica. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister. With this proposal for an emergency law, we amend the law adopted in 2014 and this is the first amendment to which you announce the establishment of a new legal framework relating to the process of assessing and sorting the unit of local (regional) and regional self-government towards the level of development. However, I have one key problem with this law, and I would also have a problem with the previous one that was brought in 2014, and it concerns the key issue of defining the development index. According to Article 32 of the Law which you are not now changing in this section, the indicator for the calculation of the development index is the calculation of the value of the development index, the proportion of the individual indicator of the overall value of the development index and other issues related to this is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation. Key issues that many colleagues and colleagues today are discussing and are speaking in a government regulation to an existing or new one that will be passed within 60 days of the entry into this law. The key things are in the government's regulation, not in this law, for me, a completely wrong approach. This Croatian Parliament was to discuss these criteria. In this Croatian Assembly there are representatives and all parts of Croatia, and they know very well how the index of development of certain criteria will be applied to their municipalities, cities and counties. However, we have been denied this possibility, you leave this possibility to the Government by this law, and I believe that this should be arranged by the Croatian Parliament instead of a regulation, and that is the key problem that I have with this law, and therefore, in this text, I cannot support it in that part precisely that the Government regulates the regulation with key issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63592	I'd like to thank my colleagues for the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63593	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers with their associates. By entering EU equal membership, the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of funds from European Structural and Investment Funds. For the financial period from 2014 to 2020, A total of 10,692 billion euros are available to Croatia, so around 10.7. Croatia signed 3.2 billion euros in projects in four years, so linearly it should be 5.9 billion that is less. And it is important to stress that there is a difference between agreed projects or projects and completed projects. The completed project is the withdrawal of money, the real picture of the money withdrawn in 3 years and 11 months, for 4 years only 918m euros. My question is that for the development of units of local and regional self-government, money from European funds is very important. Since there are three years and one month left, will we succeed in withdrawing the planned money or will Croatia lose that large amount or billions of euros, which is several tourist seasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63594	I thank my colleague Kirina for this replica. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63595	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ministers and guests. You speak during your presentation often about the European funds that will come, but we have seen that this year two billion kunas planned did not come into the budget, that it had to be a rebalancing. I wonder how you feel about the proposal made by the Living Wall to stop us from paying Europe's membership fee of 3 billion kunas and to share that money ourselves without Europe giving us anything, conditioning, calling for tenders, harassing us with bureaucracy? I think that would be much simpler because, as it seems, we give more money to these European institutions than we take back. So what if, even in 2018, according to this plan that you've just presented happens to be an incursion in these funds? In fact, we've been here three years in a row and we haven't been able to withdraw the funds that are planned, and that's basically very bad. Thus, your Regional Development Strategy comes into question, or falls into the water. And I am also interested in the fact that you are the Minister of Regional Development as your visits to so-called regions in Croatia continue. I come from Međimurje, so I didn't notice that you've been there once in the past 14 months, so I'm curious when you intend to visit us for a little while and see what's going on here in the northernmost Croatian county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63596	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for this replica. And the last replica. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63597	Dear colleagues. Dear Minister, I was a fierce critic of the current Index of Development and at the time when Gorski Kotar lost the status of the mountain-mounted area for reasons of a large index of development and then I felt that he was extremely unfair and should be changed, so I support these changes, and I also support that a number of other parameters have finally been included in the calculation compared to those that have been so far. But in one part, I would have to commend really that first start, making at all by the HDZ government's development index and model calculation of the development index because it was the foundation that we've come to right now. And now I personally think that it is not ideal and that it will have to undergo a number of changes during application. You have also announced the adoption of a new Law on the Islands of Mountains, assisted areas. I'm very supportive, and I think it's absolutely necessary. But I volunteered for a replica for another reason because I think we should start thinking differently about developed areas. Maybe even pass the Law on Developed Areas, here with my colleagues from IDS, and I've talked about it. For what reason? Because investment in the developed area generates an accelerated charge of the state budget, allows you, for all of us, to deploy that money where our areas are not developed and we do not depend solely on European funds. And I think it is unfair for the developed, because that part is where all of us who have a huge number of projects and the criteria for obtaining EU funds are also linked to the development index. I think that is where the model is to be found, to enable cities and municipalities that have a huge number of projects, projects especially in this part of the economy, which means increased and increased filling of the state budget, to you and us new money available for the development of all remaining areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63598	I thank my colleague Klaric for this replica. This is what we've exhausted all the replicas. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers with co-workers and associates. When we talk about regional development and Croatia in general, then we always think of the main county and as territorial building units that should worry about the even development of the Republic of Croatia in every municipality and every city. And now after 24 years as they were formed as such territorial units it would really be necessary to make one analysis of the situation to see what the counties are like as such territorial building units, local, regional and regional self-government brought, which are effects, which happened well or did not happen well. In this way, in principle, a much more thorough approach could be made to the debate on any kind of amendments to the Regional Development Act. I took an interesting HGK brochure titled “Zupanija, Development diversity and economic potentials”. Very good material with a lot of hard work. I hope that the Ministry has also used this material to make these amendments to the law and that, on the basis of it, some improvements in this proposal have been introduced. But I think that perhaps in this part of the indexation it was necessary to take some more elements specifically using this material. What did the Chamber of Commerce do? They put in economic indicators according to GDP counties, the financial results of the business of entrepreneurs, the labour market, foreign direct investment, trade in goods, demographic data, the economic power index of the counties. One quite, quite comprehensive and good material in which there is one part that speaks about the position of Croatian regions in a large EU picture. And here we come up with data that are definitely not good because continental Croatia is therefore 235, Adriatic Croatia 244 out of 276 regions in the EU. Only some regions in less developed countries, if they are at all less developed EU, Bulgaria, Romania or Hungary less positioned than Croatian regions. It's something that's actually an alarm, and it says that it has to go into even stronger cuts and stronger procedures to create conditions for stronger regional development and what everyone here often says is more equal regional development. Let's remember '93. the years when such a territorial structure was established, then the counties played a primary role in the even development of areas that included. Did they do it or didn't they? Some may be, but they're very rare. I exempt all of Istria's counties because it acts as one really whole. I don't think that's the case in other parts of Croatia. When we talk about counties, here we now allow these amendments of the law in the extreme case and association in some way, functional association of counties means three, at least three counties can be joined together and do some joint programs and that is one process that has obviously begun. It started with this part of the government's relationship to Slavonia County, according to all Slavonia and Baranja, and now such intensities are emerging in this part of central and northwest Croatia. Perhaps in that part you should further emphasize and stimulate such self-initiativeness that I say association of the software type and increase that intensity because it seems to me that each county is definitely for itself and is not in some large possibilities something more significant and stronger to do with its capacities that it has. In that part, regional co-ordinators, therefore as a public institution, are now mentioned, now most of the development agencies that are forcing companies or public institutions, as is already where they are drawn up. And here I have the same particular dilemma, I'm not going to say doubting the dilemma, whether these development agencies are ready to take over this huge regional coordinator's business and unite all the factors in the area of one county with the aim of building this area. And there is a need to make a certain analysis of the effects these development agencies have had. I'm not going to generalize, for sure there are development agencies that have made more and there are more that have made less, but I'm sure there are a lot less of those who have made more because unfortunately in the vast majority they have turned the same into certain bureaucratic bodies that are mostly on the salaries of the budget and function in a way that collects data by asking them by email from local self-government, get them and finally say that. It looks so sorry. Are such institutions ready to become holders of better and stronger regional development? The law on regional development absolutely and now these agencies will carry public institutions that will be regional coordinators have the role and task of connecting all factors. So here we have the situation, let's remember the LAGs, the local agency groups, they're under the Ministry of Agriculture, so it's all supposed to be united now, it's basically a huge and difficult job that's coming to these institutions, which will again be financed by most of the county budget, and will be controlled and supervised by the Ministry of Regional Development. Let us hope that there will be an effect, that there will be effects and that some shifts will occur. What I'm looking at, and I may not be quite clear to the end, so I'd like to ask for some clarifications, that's the part about assisted areas. Last week, we discussed the Law on the financing of the local (regional) and regional self-government units, under the law there is fiscal decentralisation, and somehow it seems to me that we have avoided the concept of particularly assisted areas because we have gone to income per capita. Now here we have assisted areas and the truth is, I think a colleague of Greeks was talking about it earlier to increase the number and you said you should go to all the units. So the law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government went to all units, in a way. I'm having a little bit of a dilemma here about that part, whether we need to stress this in particular now to assisted areas, if we have a Law on the financing of local self-government that goes towards fiscal decentralisation where any local self-government is allowed to achieve that minimum budget revenue per capita. The number of developed groups has now been five for local self-government units, four for regionals, now going to be eight for locals and four for regionals. I think it's okay that this distribution should have spread a little bit because it's really very difficult for Croatia however small it's so diverse that it's very difficult to classify it into some unified group that it just has to be more categories how it's all expensive to sort out and try to find it in some way. The most optimal solution is that no one feels too neglected. And it's always been like that until now. One of them got, the other didn't win or get any less, in a way it always happens. In this law, by linking it to the law on the financing of local self-government, I no longer see such a huge deviation from those who received and those who would receive. Now it's a little even for me. But I'm saying, I'm repeating this part of the assisted areas, about this law, it really seems a little out of the question. And I really ask for an explanation of what this really wants to achieve and what effects it is if we have a problem of funding that is resolved. We, as a club, will of course support this law, considered it an improvement. We believe that in this 3-year follow-up, not more than 5, it means a shorter period will be analysed and monitored for what's going on. And then, of course, improve with the goal of really in the entire Republic of Croatia having created conditions that citizens where they want to live can achieve that minimum standard worthy of every man living in the Republic because it's not normal to have parts that are super-developed and that we have parts that are super-undeveloped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63600	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Hrg, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first replica of a esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63601	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'd actually like to comment on something with regard to this law that's been bothering me quite a bit. In fact, all those who have so far proved successful in attracting, in a high percentage of EU funds, and thus also in the preparation of projects. These amendments also bind the set so far as two laws and 1 regulation are proposed. In fact, it bothers me that these successes will be led astray. First thing I said was they have to wait for two more laws and one regulation. Secondly, because it will continue to invest its time but also significant financial resources in the preparation of projects and it is very uncertain and very questionable whether they will eventually succeed and be accepted by their projects. Now, for my part, it may have the following. One dangerous and false message, you who have proven yourself good and successful do not invest your time and your money because it is very your realisation and the outcome of the position I have made in the context of what would be good for all of Croatia where I do not only think about the individual units of local self-government or county but what is good for Croatia that those who have so far shown good, those who have so far done, those who have shown their knowledge and skill that they should actually be allowed and to continue to be successful and good because it will not only be for the unit of local self-government but will be for all of Croatia through ine income and ine multiplicative effects. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63602	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi. And my colleague Hrg's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63603	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, as always, we understand each other well. It is my view that those who can and have good potential, who have proven themselves in principle, should always be able to do more and those who have not been able to get into a position at all to start doing something. Because even when we talked about funding local self-government there was also a lot of talk about not even giving some a chance from the very beginning. So some had better predispositions at first. Some didn't have that predisposition. We have a whole series of problems behind us when many cities have not been able to report to any competitions in rural development or regional development at all, because they simply did not meet some of the criteria that we have given ourselves. And it's not fair, it's not fair. So by my judgment, there should be a categorization to what extent it can be co-financed. If someone is more developed, let them compete but can't get co-financing I don't know 80, 90%. The one who's weaker if he manages to build a good project, we give him more until he gets out of that part. And that's where I'd actually make that balance. And I hope that this is all that you've been telling us about what's coming to us now, that it will go that way, that no one should be prevented from being able to compete, but it can't get the same co-financing if we're talking about some even regional development. So there still needs to be one balance, it has to be balanced to allow those who haven't been able to do anything so far and those who are more skilled, stronger, to get some more support but not as much support as those who move. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63604	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrgo, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63605	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, here's a quote from the minister in a document she wrote. "The ministry is under way to draft amendments to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which also proposes certain amendments to the part of the laws relating to the legal status, affairs and procedures of the accreditation of regional coordinators. All proposed amendments aim to further strengthen the role of regional coordinators, primarily to carry out public-interest transactions and to prepare them as quickly and quality as possible to gradually assume functions in a future decentralised system of EU use control. So you rightly wonder if regional coordinators will, and I say again, it would be better to call the county to succeed in this task? We have data from the minister who sent an answer to an agent's question, for example. The Otter Agency for Regional Development Virovitičko-Podravska County has 25 employees, Virovitičko-Podravska County has about how many, according to the latest census of 90 thousand inhabitants, while the city of Zagreb has 36 employees, Regional Development Agency Slavonia and Baranja 25, Public Institute... from Split-Dalmatia 20 on average 14.5 employees, some have very few employees. As a rule, those who have more employees are more successful, and Vidra is a very successful development agency. But what is the problem with success now? Every project, we look at an absolute amount that attracts funds. Here in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County you have 13 municipalities and 3 cities, that doesn't mean if Vidra is successful that will be a successful unit of local self-government, that's what I'm stressing entirely. We must raise capacity for local self-government units because the development agencies and these regional coordinators are always under the influence of politics and it is always a policy at the county level that determines which projects are of no importance. And we have to bring that down to local self-government units because the best people in the community know what their priorities are and ultimately they have to deliver it to regional coordinators.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63606	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63607	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, you've now cited some examples of some of the development agencies that are successful and it would be good if they were as successful as possible. It is true that so far it has been quite undefined, that it is simply for those agencies or founders to be left like this, it can be that way, so it wasn't complicated. Now these changes dictate exactly what they need to do and how they need to be registered, how many people there are, what kind of pay in those agencies, that's the founder's business now. In my opinion, as is the example in the advisory service, I would always go there in a very simple way, determine one salary of the general who is, and then upgrade by implementing projects by the projects that are going, so pay for me for 50 thousand kuna, but make projects, have 100 employees and no problem but let the end develop be effects. Let's just say that as a man would be the most appropriate thing for me, and that would be some kind of stimulant. This is how you keep the five people employed, so you expect miracles from them, so you're a charm at it. On the other hand, you've got some agency that has a lot of employees, so it doesn't have any effect. You've got those who have a lot of employees having students, with little employees really looking isn't to expect. Now, if it's to expect every county to do something, I don't know what the big deal is with those people in those agencies, I'm not sure. I'm not sure it'll work, because I think the county's too small in itself to make some huge steps in the development of an end that in some way...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63608	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrgo, for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63609	Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Hrg, you have well noticed at this time after the adoption of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government we in Croatia have in principle only one criterion and only one instrument of regional policy. This is the level of income and income tax and cut-off per capita as a criterion and support in that sense, which is measured by a billion and a half kuna, which goes from the state budget to the units of local self-government and not on the basis of the development index, and you've noticed that well. What's the point? Regional policy is suspended from month to month, it is actually less and less, and as long as we do not see all these accompanying laws, which means a new law on assisted, new Law on Islands and the new Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, we will not know whether regional policy as such will survive in Croatia at all because this is a policy of fiscal decentralisation, not regional policy. So this gets units of local self-government, I'm interested in getting citizens, getting companies that we'd like to work in these underdeveloped areas, opening their own plants, etc., etc. So de facto we abolished the pay gap between developed and undeveloped areas, there are no more personal deductions based on which teachers, teachers, doctors and others would rather go to those parts because they received a slightly higher salary than in Zagreb, Split, Osijek, etc. It's gone. So we expect it to be defined in these laws. Well, that's the essence of the story, and that's why demographic collapse is happening and everything that goes with it, and that's serious development problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63610	I thank my fellow Greek. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63611	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. I absolutely advocate the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government and I ask the question, what about all those units of local self-government that have been constantly under an increase in income addition, freed from various other obligations that some have not been released, where are they today? Have they evolved? Did they come out of that part of undeveloped criteria? Unfortunately, most of them aren't. And when I was talking about amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, I said that it should be monitored after a while, whether it's three, whether five years, if everyone is now allowed to make a safe income that every local self-government leader can plan after that observation period, something must happen. If nothing happens then it means that this unit of local self-government doesn't make sense to survive unless we want to achieve something completely different that we have to define. If local self-governments are strengthened as fundamental units, then they are stronger and regional and they absolutely now have much more opportunities to run for competitions, to apply, to co-finance their share that should therefore be defined by such a regional policy. So I think you can do that, but I say assisted areas are a little bit like that, I have a dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63612	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63613	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Hrg, the fact is that the current Regional Development Act, indexation is essentially what was adopted in 2014, and 2009 is essentially proposed. So there was a law that basically undeveloped municipalities also declared cities, local self-government, which 35 declared to be developed. And that should have changed a long time ago. So much damage has been done to a little bit of damage, I'm not going to say now that all the aggressors that have been in these areas that have done less damage in these areas, and that's visible by the number of students in these areas. That's the most appropriate thing to do when we see how many classes have disappeared. However, the fact is that here the minister tells me about regional development, the funds, about what the Tribals use with this law, these areas. But the fact is that in these areas we have in small municipalities people who can do all the projects and that this embarrassing situation is essentially a situation that only ten percent of us, nor did we use these funds from the EU funds, that 9 billion kuna is hanging inexplicably in a couple of years, so in three years, it seems to me that we're going to lose it. So we are still making more payments to the EU significantly, and the only thing we have from the ministry of praise and frequent amendments to the law. The fact is that the central authorities worked all the time mainly against the underdeveloped areas of Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, Ravni kotar, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, your region policy set was directed against these areas except perhaps a few Zagreb and a few other centres. And now the damage is huge. How many of them we will resuscitate in this way we will see it, but the fact is that EU funds, still Croatia pays more to those officials than it returns. And that's the key problem. What capacity we have in these small local self-government human potentials for these EU funds to be drawn out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63614	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63615	When Mr. Vice President read that you're replicating, I was just wondering what you'd be replicating, since you've been talking pretty loudly to my classmates the whole time. But I can see you shouldn't have listened to what I'm saying, because you've had your two-minute debate prepared before. So here's how I'm going to answer you to one part right now. So it's not all the way you say it, it's not all because we simply have a situation that in Croatia in these 25, 6, 7 years has done a lot in all parts of Croatia. Only there was a different way to distribute the funds. But when we look at that Croatian infrastructure arrangement, we see that it is unlike that in '93. A whole other situation today. Money was being poured into local levels in various other ways with policies that were led. And it was always there. But there was no record anywhere, there were no long-term game rules. And that's the problem. And so now what's happening slowly by law, the change by change goes in that direction, and I believe it will ultimately produce results. Did people from some neighborhood move because someone didn't give some community money, I'm not sure, I'm not sure about that. It's hard to say. I wouldn't dare define it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63616	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg. I would kindly ask you to make this observation to my colleague Bulju, chairing the meetings, is the one who will warn MPs and MPs if they exaggerate in their conduct in the assembly, although many whisper and whisper and talk to each other as others speak. We have already appealed several times, so please do not have to or should you be the one, not you, but any parliamentary representative, warning counsel, warning MPs and MPs, because they may be misbehaving in certain situations. And thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63617	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Hrg hurt Article 238, where he said that I had already prepared a replica, that I was speaking loudly. Yes, and I will speak even louder, because the very silence of my colleague Hrga all these times while in politics and similar politicians brought him into this situation these areas. Because simply in Croatian politics is the greatest sin, and that is the eighth sin of obedience. Both hearing and silence, not speech and clear expression, have led to this situation. And colleague Hrg, you will not forbid me to speak and to whom I will speak. That may be the only way I can control you, because that's the only way you can be in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63618	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Please don't abuse the Institute of Rules of Procedure again. I've warned my colleague, Hrga. You speak loudly when you get a word of it, and while others say it, I beg you not to disturb it. Thank you very much. If you are not satisfied with the answer, you may contact the committee responsible. We move on to the next debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club respected counterpart Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63619	Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, which is here in our emergency procedure, will be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. We prefer to discuss and support the laws that are passed in this assembly in the first and second readings in the regular procedure. However, the reason for the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure is such that it really needs this kind of support. This will correct the long-standing injustice to numerous units of local and regional (regional) self-government that have been abolished by the work methodology so far and will allow for a fairer and more efficient distribution, and thus a more balanced regional development. Immediately after the adoption of this law, a regulation on the index of development and decisions on the classification of units of local, regional (regional) self-government under this law should be adopted within 60 days and 90 days, respectively. At the very beginning, I would say that by listening to the debates that all of us, meaning not you, but all of us here in this assembly, and also in the talks with the mayors, mayors, I get the impression that when it comes to the Regional Development Act that we all find some reason why our units of local and regional (regional self-government) should be in the one below the average, or even better said should be in that category that would receive the help of the Ministry of Regional Development certain grants. Or when we are running for EU funds to get a smaller percentage to finance the project. However, when we talk not now about the Regional Development Act but about other topics, not to say when we give speeches or we have interviews with journalists, then we are very happy to point out that this local self-government unit is not above average developed, but as we have numerous indicators in which we belong, according to these indicators we belong to the most developed. So, here I am, my Vodice, i.e. the Sibenik Knin County, when we talk about the Regional Development Act, I would like it to belong to the one below the average so that we can run for those funds, but we are very happy to point out the numerous data, by which we are out on average developed. Let's go back to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, so it was adopted in 2014, it was replaced, then replaced by the 2009 Regional Development Act. We had then many frequent remarks, both by scientific and professional workers. It was necessary to improve this legal framework and the evaluation process, and in particular the identification of assisted areas. As we heard from the minister, according to the ministry's estimates, now around 40 units should receive more assistance from the state budget, or later in subsidies, when it comes to European projects, by the Republic of Croatia. Surely we should take care of it and it would be good if we had passed this law or discussed it when we had both on benches and final laws, or at least amendments and additions to the Law on Supported Areas, then the Law on Islands and the Law on mountainous mountainous areas. But, as announced, they will soon be in the parliamentary procedure. The criticism was also on the deadline for carrying out the level of development assessment. By shortening that deadline, the monitoring dynamics would be improved, and proactiveity would be encouraged. We have heard that it is necessary to define both the legal status and the tasks carried out by the regional coordinator. For all of this, the ministry has conducted a consultation with an interested public. All 10 representatives were interested, of which 9 remarks were accepted, something partial, and only 7 rejected, which is the same enough to state the quality of this law. This law first and foremost seeks to regulate the methodology for calculating the development index. The Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is the policy holder of regional development and has therefore come to the evaluation in 2017 to find new parameters that could make this picture more quality and fair. So far we have 264 units of local self-government and 12 units, regional, regional self-government. The second problem, we said, concerns the status of regional coordinators. So far, it's been an unequal approach, so we've had regional development agencies set up as public institutions. We had companies, i.e. administrative bodies in local self-government units. So from 21 regional coordinators, we had 13 companies, six public institutions and two administrative bodies. Some of them provided bills for their services, charged VAT, some worked on the principle of subsidisation by units of local self-government, and indeed if in due course we want regional coordinators, which is also the tendency of this law, to function, which is a better management and control of the use of European funds, then we also need to do something about it. The third part is said, to be harmonised, to the laws adopted so far, or to those in preparation, means from the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which we have brought, then the management of development of assisted areas, islands and mountainous mountain areas. A regulation on the membership of the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, the Central Agency for the financing and negotiation of EU programmes and projects, and for these reasons, was also adopted, and certain articles of the law needed to be amended. According to the evaluation findings, which the Ministry commissioned and developed at the Centre for Local and Development of the University of Rijeka's Faculty of Economics, the largest limitations of the current model were in the calculation of the development index, which refers to the calculation process itself, i.e. to the application of inadequate methods, standardisation and summation of indicators and the application of arbitral weighting indicators, which resulted in inadequate evaluation and classification of local and county units according to the degree of development. We heard from the minister, so we had four basic criteria and led by the criteria set, and after a fair test, several different models were tested, and a new structure was proposed. We have heard it means, despite the current, use of the Index of Development and Indicators with average income per capita, average original income per capita, average unemployment rate, general population movement, we now have an ageing index and level of education for the population of tertiary education. We've heard criticism, and it's certain that it would be good if we had more of these criteria, and then, we talked about the rate of population and it's certain that a smaller number of residents on a larger area of demand are more investment, that it takes almost every single object to bring municipal infrastructure and that we can't look at the same areas where we have a denser population in one where we have a rarer one. We also heard from fellow whites here to include him and climate differences in this classification. Furthermore, traffic connection, or non-connection, is also a problem that can be discussed and discussed. In fact, we have an entirely southern municipality in the south, and we have units of local self-government that have no quality connection, and they are sure to expect some help on the basis of regional, even regional development. Furthermore, by war destroyed or mine suspected areas. At the Committee on Regional Development and the EU, the Minister's funds provided certain explanations, and we could hear that it was very difficult to obtain quality input data which would be the basis for working on the table and classification of units of local self-government. Islands and assisted areas of course require special attention. We have specifics like that. my city of Vodice, which has in its area and some settlements under special state care and islands. I do not know how this will be processed in a newer law, i.e. Amendments and additions to the Island and Supported Areas Act. In the new model, the average value of indicators is calculated as an average of their values at the level of all local county units, which is a more appropriate approach for calculating the national average. That's when we, we could hear from fellow Greeks that now from 75% something increases to 100%. Not now we have an average. So the average of all units of local self-government is the starting point. It was called 100%, 0 or 1 anything below average is below average and what's above is above. So when it comes to local self-government units, then we're going to have four categories above and four below. When it comes to units of the area, regional self-government then we have two above and two below. When it comes to regional coordinators, there is another, one segment covering what I think is very good and there is not much to hear about the conclusion of a development agreement in the field of at least 3 units of regional, regional self-government, which would establish strategic regional development projects for that particular area but, of course, should also be planned. So the legislator proposes an agreement between regional self-government units to see what the priorities of np are. whether it is Slavonia, whether it is Dalmatia or other areas but by this agreement, a development agreement can be given more to a particular project which, surely later when running for European funds, will receive a greater number of points, more support, but of course, these units of regional self-government must be in their budget and provide for funding. The third group of amendments and additions were determined by the environment of amendments to the law, as I have already said. There is fear among certain units of local self-government that have so far been on different grounds, either on the basis that they have quarryes or national parks in their territory. As stated on the Assembly Committee on these specificities, differences will be taken into account and new laws will also be their right to make revenue on this basis and until these new laws are passed, all those articles from the existing ones will remain in force, regardless of what these amendments and additions say they will then be deleted. So it refers to Part 6 of the law from Articles 40 to 46. And for the very end, the HDZ Club will support this law, supporting it in an emergency procedure precisely because it corrects injustice against numerous units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And we believe that these amendments and additions to the law will contribute to the even development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63620	I would like to thank my colleague Branko Jurichev-Martinchev for this debate. And we have 13 replicas. Dear colleague Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63621	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to tell you that you have, in a very correct way, defended from the position of HDZ, this proposal to amend and supplement the law. I'm going to expand my debate in the context of how all of us should both be able to move faster and more and better. I'm going to base it on two key points from my point of view of the criteria. First, how can this law enable as many project realizations as possible and how many investment realisations are possible? Why? Because with the projects prepared, projects adopted with the realisation of investments directly affect, firstly, the retention of existing jobs, the opening of new jobs, the creation of new revenues, the creation of new added value in the community. What I would especially like to stress is that I am in no way against helping those in need. So I repeat, I am for those who need help to be helped, but what I'm against is not penalizing those who can, who know, who are pulling, who are contributing. I will go back to the basic sentence, all together not only through this law but also through future laws, we need to strive that we can all go faster and faster and better, and these are comprehensive and comprehensive solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63622	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63623	Thank you, colleague Sponza, for this matter. I believe that we all have the same interest in withdrawing as much European resources as possible and making as much in the area of the Republic of Croatia as possible. However, this is the Regional Development Act, and we are all seeking even regional development. So this law just wants those less developed to help, and we're not talking about those that we're going to penalize, we're just going to help these things a little bit more. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63624	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63625	Thank you very much. My colleagues in your speech you mentioned what we all really want in the Republic of Croatia, and that is even development, but unfortunately for us the amendments to the law itself and the ideas will not bring it. And on the other hand, when we see Croatia's demographic devastation, we see that, in fact, the intensity of this government has, for the past two years, since HDZ in power has exactly been such a trend that over a hundred thousand people have left Croatia last year and we have virtually no effect of anything. And that's why I'm surprised to say that this is exactly the kind of demographic that documents and laws don't put in the first place. Which means, for example, pay or pay some pay heights in certain criteria if there are no people there if people leave the area. So on this side, it is evident that the existing model does not produce the results that we would like, and on the other hand, I am afraid that we are going to have a trend in how the ministry started, which is that it is dispersed and that the implementation system is being transferred to local self-government units or county, that we will only further diverge the story and that it will only use it in the future to employ locally certain people who, unfortunately, in some counties if such a trend continues in the coming years, remain the only ones living in those counties. So we have a public administration as the only source of employment in many counties where HDZ is in power, not to speak Slavonia, Lici etc. So turn to demographic components and try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63626	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63627	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, I would not agree with you if this law would not change anything. In this law, 40 new units of local self-government will receive assistance if we link it to the state budget that 100% more funding is provided for in the Regional Development Fund, then these 40 units of local self-government will be able to better run for those funds and get help if nothing else. And as for the demographics of numbers in certain units of local self-government, they say the opposite. You just want to see how many kindergartens we want to do and how many kindergartens we are running for European funds. That's why demographics think that much more is said negatively than what it really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63628	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63629	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juricev-Martinchev. You mentioned in your presentation of your place of Vodice and Sibenik-Knin County as an example and here a lot of the debate is cited as an example of certain units of local self-government that are not covered by this measure and as if this is a failure of this law. But the meaning of this law is even development. We already have, I have listed it before, additional 51st to the previous 2014 law we added 100 new ones that only got to me in Osijek-Baranja County 56 million kunas directly, which indirectly helps in their budgets. Then there were 37 units of 42, now it's going to be more than that. But what we have to think about is certainly right now we already have 301 of those below average, and that's already a large number, too many, that should certainly be looked at in certain ways. When we look at where they are, especially Slavonia and Baranja, I think it's precisely the meaning of this law of the original and especially these changes to ensure that they stay as long as they stay in those groups in terms of withdrawing funds, but not in terms of wanting to stay there forever. The goal of each law is that we don't have as few as possible and that by increasing indexation, it means that we're following how we're growing the standard that the smaller number remains below, so that we can talk about increasing certain conditions, certain more items when we determine indexation. But as long as we have the highest number in Slavonia and Baranja, as long as we need the most needs there, we need to concentrate where we need it most. So this law, however, we welcome, and I think it will only contribute to better development, opportunities for people to stay in their seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63630	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63631	Thank you. Well, colleague Curaj, when I mentioned the Sibenik-Knin County and my City, I just wanted to say that when I talk about the Regional Development Act, I would find some reason why it would be good to help that area. But when we talk about results then we will be very happy everywhere, I said again in front of journalists or some gatherings to point out that we are, by some indicators, among the most developed. Which I don't think is correct from all of us together, this law seeks evenly, regional development, and I think that's exactly what's going to happen to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63632	Thank you. The hand was raised by a respected representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63633	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Regardless of your excessive view, because you obviously don't like to give it very much, but we have to because the topic is extremely important. It is about the new Government proposal, about the minimum wage and we must say our position and that in fact Croatian citizens hear the amazing solutions that Andrej Plenkovic is coming up with. Here's what you'd like to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63634	I will, of course, grant you a break, won't you agree to finish the replicas? Yeah, well, let's take a break. There he is. This one. Next. Here, then we'll ask because maybe another club will want a break. Let's finish the replicas first, and then my colleague Maras agreed with it, and then we'll see which other club wants this one, a break, and about what. The next is the replica of the respected representative, Ata Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63635	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev, you yourself have said in your introduction, which is why this law is going into emergency proceedings and you have stated it well. Perhaps, more needs to be added, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Art. 204. This law, the adoption of a new law, actually follows the indexation regulation. That's why he's being brought in by emergency procedure. So what you stated in your debate, we then, if you look at the phonogram, discussed 2009 and 2013. And then they were sitting there looking for the best possible solutions. At that time, we warned that we did not have certain political requirements, certain states by individual units of local self-government, and others by no means. Yeah, that methodology actually covers all units of local self-government. Life, development, municipalities, cities, people, states, it's not static, it's dynamic. And after this, the adoption of this law, three years later, new laws will be passed, new indexation every year. So he's acting at this point, maybe the best methodology. I want to believe so, because from the Minister's office today, it was visible that the best possible solution was sought through this university in Rijeka, or the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka. And then, and even today, there will always be those who are not satisfied. And there will be things, in fact, that can be talked about and the elements that should actually be met, by individual units of local administrations and self-government and by regional and regional self-government. There's something else you've been saying. At the time, I remember very well talking about regional coordinators. In fact, the county coordinators, who will be supervised by the ministry. They are regionally related to the EU due to this terminology. And then we said that this law actually enables equal treatment and determination of a unique, legal form and because of the accreditation itself, and that should be said. And this law actually allows regional coordinators. And it's good to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63636	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63637	Thank you very much. So, as you said, counterpart Babic, the criteria can still be discussed, whether or not some new one is added, if one is unnecessary, there, however, I don't think there is a fairer model than calculating the average value at the level of all units of local self-government. So the average is the average, everything below the average is below and it needs to be helped, and everything that's above is not needed from these funds, from these funds, from these funds. So he had 0, initial or 100% or 100 units, but what to call them, 4 categories below, which we're helping with this law, so a really fairer model can't be, which is determined by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63638	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63639	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Juričev Martinchev, we will agree on everything except what we do not agree on. So this law corrects injustice. But it's not the point of the law. What's defeated for the Republic of Croatia is that we actually have 301 units, which have the status of an assisted area. And the point of the law is that for, let's say 10 years, we only have 5 units that... That status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point of us doing it. How are we gonna do that? 2 billion euros, we are only available in agricultural funds. According to the Institute for Public Finance estimates, we're missing, now about 2700 experts from the fund attraction area. We have here, according to this list... We have 350 employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can discuss it now, whether they're in love, if they're too many, obviously they're too few. And what we have to do, allow units of local self-government, municipalities to strengthen that, to be at the service of family farms, will not be able to do so by these regional county coordinators, they will not get there. That's what matters. And as for the criteria, here, come to me, I invite you from Virovitica to Nasic, you do not need special air criteria to see that these are assisted areas. Why? We've got romb one, corridor 5D, 5C, 10A, 100 kilometers to the highway. And it's just, it's infrastructure, which I can't make local units myself. Someone needs to build a road so the economy can develop. These are key questions for the Republic of Croatia. This law, of course, needs to be welcomed, but it will not solve the essential issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63640	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Juričev Marinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63641	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I would prefer to refer to the part relating to the regional coordinator. We all really expect a lot, whether from LAGs or from regional development agencies, our big eyes are on European funds and we are impatient and I would say humanely under-quality teamed. We have cases, and that's for sure in all counties that employees are training, and education is both expensive and long-term. After what's happening to us? That these workers who worked on European funds go to private consultants. And again, our regional development of the agency, the county, the cities, the municipalities or even the ministries remain without quality personnel. I have already proposed and I think it would be very good to tie these employees into which money and time for the institution they leave because we're going to have a narrow throat and now we already have and when all our projects are in order for the evaluation, we're going to have bigger problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63642	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63643	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrades Juričev-Martinchev, I cannot agree with you when you said that the injustice will be corrected so far. I would not call it that if it were an injustice, it is clear that everyone has an opinion of how regional development should have been then, that aid for now and the islanders, that both assisted areas and mountainous areas were assisted. This new indexation is something you imagined, I hope it'll be good in the work, but we'll see what it looks like. You also said that we leaders of local self-government units try to boast then we say that we are very highly developed, we are all in the 5th almost category, and when we have to run with some means, then we try to be in the first category, that's true. That's to understand. But I would say that this is understandable because if we compare ourselves to Europe, and we compare ourselves with Europe, when we want to use European funds, and we want to use European funds, then we see that there are bad and worse ones, comparing ourselves with Europe. And it's a perfectly normal thing to try to get to these European funds and try to withdraw as much money as we can for our citizens, for our infrastructure, for everything we need. And here I would ask the Minister of Regional Development and the Ministry to meet us as much as possible in order to help all units of local self-government, to be our kind of candidate for European funds and not to look at the criteria of how to throw us out when we are not satisfying certain things but to help us get as much money out of European funds as possible by running. And I'm saying, what you said wrongly, here, so I don't think it's unfair after all, but everyone has their own model of how they think the regional development of Croatia should look thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63644	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63645	Thank you. So, counterpart Prelec, surely 52 units of local self-government that will enter the areas that will exercise the right to help, will feel that so far it has been unfair. We have to agree to that. When it comes to regional coordinators and otherwise employees and ministries, their midnight is needed on the ground, and every day we see that they are increasingly open and more ready to help and only in such a way and we can withdraw as much funds as possible. I believe that the government's decision to employ about 60 new employees in the ministry who will work exclusively on such projects will also contribute to the quality of information that we will be able to get on the ground, and that we will also be able to improve the realisation and withdrawal of European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63646	The next replica is the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63647	Dear colleague Martinchev, you said and that's the fact that... The solemn session of municipal and city councils, when we are in front of the media, on our websites, we all like to boast of a large index of development and that's good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another problem is that our development index is practically becoming a brake in even greater development and even better realization of our projects. And if we apply this experience of our cities and municipalities that have this large index of development to the state, then we ask ourselves a question because I'm sure your Vodice, my Bakar, Ivanov Trilj, Tully's Labin have areas that have not been developed and areas that have not been developed. And why does our budgets grow in such cities, and why do we have a larger index of development? Simply because we were strategically planning, going to develop and invest exactly where we were most developed. With the funds that we got, with the budgets that have grown, we all started to develop with that part of our cities and municipalities, those settlements that definitely had no potential to generate themselves... What am I saying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law is good, good at that part because it thinks about a new way of indexing, a new way of thinking. Through the work we will determine what other shortcomings of this law are because it is not perfect as far as I have been able to look at it and cannot be fully applied to the entire area of our country. But in that part that means great progress, that's definitely it. And what's... We need to start thinking in a way that allows units of local self-government that have a large index of development, in which we have great potential to develop the rest of Croatia and even this even development of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia to enable ourselves to run for European funds without fear, because we know that this index of development must not be a brake to attract funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63648	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63649	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, indeed this law foresees, see units of local self-government as a single whole environment and does not look at the differences of the internal and certainly it would be very difficult to forget that certain areas of you in Bakr or as I said in Vodice we have areas that were special state care, we also have islands. We also have mine suspected areas, etc. But when it comes to European funds, we need to know that we all have the same input towards European funds. Only a percentage of the shares in the budget of their units of local self-government will be in those units that are more developed, or less since that part of the funds will be participated from the state budget or from the Regional Development Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63650	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let me get one thing straight. No average of JLS and average of Croatia. The average JLS must be equal to the average of Croatia. Average income per capita is equal to the sum of all income obtained in local self-government units divided by the sum of residents of all local self-government units. It's only true and correct, everything else is a mistake. Another thing, about righteousness, here's just one example that was in 2013 when we implemented the 2010 Development Index. The city of Drnis has fallen out of assisted areas. Now I see in this study which is the basis for this bill Drnish turns out, Poličnik, Posedarje, so the places that have been exposed to war destruction. It's an injustice. People, that's injustice. You know what the problem was? When we caught the analysis deep, why is that? The banal thing and the very serious thing of returning the inhabitants to the city of Drniš after war destruction was treated as the growth of the number of inhabitants between the two censuses in 2011 and 2001, so a pure statistical prank to say, under the alleged signs that we had to correct for the sake of injustice and we were correcting the index in that section and we said the criterion of the return of the population to the cities and places that were thus lost, we will not treat as the growth of the population that was conditioned by development. It was not conditioned by the development, it was conditioned by the return of people to their homes. You understand? And I claim that this law will not be fair in that sense, too, because it will always cut someone off for some other reasons than the indicators themselves show. Therefore, only a deep analysis of each individual site and municipality and city can make this index fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63652	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63653	When I spoke about the criteria both in response to the replica and in my debate, I said that the criteria to discuss and it is really possible that some other criteria might be added in due time, etc. When it comes to certain cities and municipalities that are about to enter, or it won't be necessary to calculate the average, it's not a big deal, after this law, a regulation and decision on the classification of units of local self-government will be made. But here is also concretely the Drniš case, Polinika, enough to say that these units of local self-government, or those of those units of local self-government, are successful that they have worked very hard and have done a lot in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63654	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63655	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, on several occasions you mentioned that this indexation of injustice will be corrected by units of local self-government. Although I think it's just cosmetics and that with the indexation that you've often tied to the withdrawal of funds from European funds will bring nothing to those who are underdeveloped. You yourself know the relationship between the paid membership fee for EU membership and the funds that we have withdrawn from the EU funds that we stand very badly there and that if we were to make the balance that there is no one to move there, there is no benefit for the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government. True even development can only be done with the right and honest decentralisation. When state funds will go where they need to and not developed they have a lot of parameters why it is just like that sometimes there are also natural resources that can be used or not. And in this indexation one parameter should be introduced that would very well show where great underdevelopment is, and that is the number of those who went from the Republic of Croatia with a bread belly because their areas are obviously so underdeveloped that they have to leave their home and go looking for Europe bread. That parameter is very difficult to express rightly because we don't have the right information today how many people have left the Republic of Croatia. Here we listen to ministers from Germany, from other countries who tell us how many of our people are registered with them and we don't talk about it because it's obviously something that every government is ashamed of and this one is ashamed of. And that's the real reason why some of the neighborhoods are underdeveloped and why people are leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63656	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63657	Thank you. Your colleague Lenart said a lot of things and decentralisation and correction of injustice eu funds and so on. I will repeat that this corrects the injustice of 52 units of local self-government which will now exercise the right to help which they could not have so far. When it comes to decentralisation, we have passed a new law on the financing of units of local self-government that leaves certain amounts, so we no longer have that amount in the state budget. As Minister Maric said, it is the only item 100% sure to be realised in that amount, it is 0 because it is entirely left to units of local, or regional, regional self-government. When it comes to European funds, then all together, we can equally run for these funds because they are intended, whether it is about opening a tender for the protection of cultural goods, whether it is about protecting nature or something. Only those units of local self-government that are below average, which are assisted areas, will receive more support from the state budget. So the municipal budget, or city budget, will need to allocate smaller funds. But when it comes to European funds, everyone and the most developed can run on equal terms. Only the amount to pay is slightly higher than the undeveloped ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63658	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63659	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, there have already been a number of topics in your replicas. What is regional development, what is sustainable development? It's a topic where we try to make all parts of the Republic that is the topic in which we try to make all parts of the Republic have about the same conditions. And we have to be honest and say that this is one long way, that the magic wand is gone, that there will always be justice and injustice, and that we need to reduce that justice and injustice to the best possible measure. And our interest would be to really be as good as possible and to be more developed. And now part of the introduction when you said you said one thought that I would actually like to develop further. When it comes to indexation, then all units of local self-government have a desire to be as poor as possible. And when it comes to some pre-election campaign or on the eve of a special holiday when you talk about your community or city, then everyone boasts about being as good as possible. And I think that should be really reasonable, and when it comes to withdrawing EU funds, indeed, those who are better will be even better. And what we need to strive for is that those who are worse don't get worse, because they're just not ready, they don't know, they can't. And the role not only of the state but of the local self-government units that are good, which have good results should be in that sense and that direction to help these worse ones. And that's the part where you can actually make it possible, because you have some experience in local self-government units that have no state level. And in that sense, we should, through some other, third or further changes that are going to find some kind of solution, because in that way, the units of local self-government that are good at their capacity, their capabilities should somehow be mentorly in charge of some others, because that way they can do it much better. instead of hiring 60 new people in the ministry. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63660	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63661	Thank you. Well, esteemed fellow Dark-Taritash, I'll agree with everything you've said. Indeed, this law must create conditions for even regional development. What would make me happy and what we expect is that every year the Croatian average will be as high as possible. So the average is always the average, and the four of us are going to have categories below and four above. But to make that average every year by all these criteria I don't know 10, 20% more then we've done a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63662	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63663	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Branka. I've been listening very closely to your argument and I agree with everything you've said. And of course, by this law we evaluate and classify local self-government units more fairly. A larger number is below the average units that will be able to use incentives which will naturally contribute to development. And there is also correcting the injustice of indexation that has contributed well to the eviction from all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and as much as that from Slavonia, or from the county where I come from. Of course, these amendments to Article 23 of the Development Agreement will also contribute to the improvement in equal regional development and much of what this law adopts. However, I am interested in your opinion on how important this law is for further reflection on which direction the Republic of Croatia should go, which priorities should be proposed for co-financing and for European funds in the new financial period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63664	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63665	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned your colleagues Maximchuk to Slavonia. This law creates predispositions for even regional development. However, the Ministry of Regional Development has just paid special attention to this area and therefore we have a special project Slavonia. We have seen the initiative of individual MPs that a special law should be passed that would be beyond all of these so far that would refer to this particular area. When it comes to the priorities that this country should have, it is certain that there have been speeches and will be during the debate and establishment of the National Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, as well as strategic plans and we will be talking to the National Strategy safely by the end of the day at the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63666	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have already heard from each other many times and on the other hand that this law is a roof law in preparation that allows for a quality new index of development, a better quality. In the debate, we heard a lot of data and information that is not correct and that is not being checked and that does not correspond to the real state. Let us remember when local self - administrations received questionnaires to which they were later evaluated and entered certain areas of development, some deliberately or did not fill out the survey lists from the data they placed where they did not actually belong. And when it turned out that, realistically looking at a group that they didn't belong to, real problems in operation started. Developmental indices were essentially local self-government units. These data collected from the field plus state institutions that had their own data led to a development index. So it's not just a question of the law, it's a question of us in the local environments that we were obliged to show realistically, which is more realistic to show the real situation. This law, therefore, and the new laws that will come after them, these proposals for new units laws and the functioning of local units will contribute not only to this as we have heard a more balanced and fairer new index of development but will also contribute to the functioning of local units primarily in the withdrawal of EU funds and create preconditions for the development of local units. Many are problems, but we are also interested in, in addition to the problem, in particular, what will well pass this law and the following laws that are in synergy with this law. That's why it's for saying hello to this law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63668	Thank you. Answer the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63669	Thank you very much. So, colleague Šipić, in order for the criteria to be done properly, needs as high-quality input database as possible. It is our big problem in the Republic of Croatia and the ministry is as I said on the parliamentary committee the minister herself presented problems that have to do with the input data and I believe that there will be a lot done on this basis so that we can have fair data, and then along with those criteria and get deserveing a degree of development rather than the way it has been so far. In fact, what the Centre for Local and Economic Development of the Faculty of Economics has established among other things is that it must not allow compensatory values between different indicators in the final value of the composite index and avoid arbitrological weighting. Also, their lack of knowledge or use of data that are not relevant so far has led to some units of local self-government being in the category of undeveloped and not really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63670	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63671	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, in your debate, you said, and I agree with you here that a legislative framework is needed for even regional development. But even regional development implies that those who are less developed catch up with those who are more developed and more developed to continue to develop. First of all, it takes a high-quality legislative framework and therefore we from the HSS support the urgent adoption of this law, but the fact is that we should have done it a year earlier. Because that is how it is said and the data that most ministries have reduced the amount of funds that will be withdrawn from the EU funds in the rebalancing of the state budget precisely because, through technical assistance, we obviously have not prepared ourselves in quality, nor have we adopted in time new laws that will bring those EU funds closer to them, as has been announced in the campaign that it will be faster, simpler and more accessible. So we've been reducing these funds in rebalancing because we don't have enough administrative capacity. And what I said in the first line, there's not enough cooperation between the ministries. It needs to be fixed immediately. It is also important to point out that units of local self-government must not happen to prepare projects, run and then not get an answer for a year, and now we have through rural development measures, measure 6, the situation that a year ago and six months ago were competitions, dedicated projects, units of local self-government spent money and no answer. Apparently, there's not enough administrative capacity. But that's why we have to deal with this urgently. It is also important to say that this division of Croatia must not remain in two regions because it makes it very difficult to implement both this law and other laws and will not contribute evenly to regional development. And that's why we're asking urgently to change that, too. And to apply the model of Poland, we learn from those who have been successful. If their dukedom is but couples of our county, it has a certain fund of development... in our county, why don't we do it in Croatia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63672	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63673	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that you will support this law, the HSS Club, and to see that the fundamental trend of this law is even development. When you said there was no co-ordination between ministries, I would disagree because it is precisely our EU Regional Development Minister and Funds that has once a month if I do not cheat on coordination with all other ministers and the prime minister is chaired to coordinate and see what is effective, what to do to make EU funds more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63674	Thank you. Thank you very much. And now we can go back to the point that was discussed, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the respected representative Tomislav Panenić and counterpart Tomislav Žagar will share the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63676	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is one of the laws that attracts the attention of all those who deal with the development of their environments and of course expectations are always very high. So far, this law has had its changes, additions, variations where everyone who proposed it promised a better life, promised that its version would be better, better. Here's a new proposal, coming out Minister Dalic with her vision that should be better. What I must note is that during these years as the law has been implemented we have not met many units of local self-government which, with the support provided by this law progressed, achieved development and at one point fell out of those aided or areas of special state concern that in the end we could say here we had real help, thank the legislator, thank you to everyone who has sacrificed especially those who have developed so that their colleagues have some remarks, take a lot of us, and we don't see any further developments. And in the end I can also say that they have the right because they want to if taken away then they want to see somewhere further progress and development. Now we're actually coming up one new moment, new divisions are coming up, but what I'm worried about is no longer 264 assisted local self-governments, now they're 304. So if you have a certain amount of resources that should help certain environments develop now we're going to set them up a little bit more. On average, there's no progress, so we still haven't come to the realization that we have to do real priorities. We will have today during the debate and the law on strategic thinking in future times, and I hope that this law will also allow for real priorities to be defined, because if we have 304 local self-governments that will receive support from 576 here if I remember the figure well, then we will come up with more loud mouths than those who need and can help. There won't be happy, I'd say let's set some priorities so if we know the goals so if we choose 10, 20, 50, 100 of them and then say in the next five years they're getting intensive help, through that help they'll achieve and those goals and they'll cross from a certain category if they're from the lowest, I don't know now it's somewhere at 60 and something will be the ones who are the lowest let's solve them so let's move them somewhere forward. This way, I'm just afraid we'll be communicating all the time that we don't have the resources to help as much as we can, I don't feel it. So the area I come from, we have no luck or vision at all to really help us. Of course this and colleague Podolnjak he has already warned that this law is a framework in which there is actually a regulation that is one in force, the other still needs to be adopted and it should determine the real indices, in fact these are the parameters that will determine. So I would now use in this debate to warn the government a little bit when making a regulation on the ground what it looks like. We now have a new indicator, an average income per capita, and I agree it's better than a GDP that we couldn't measure at lower levels. Take, however, when a certain income comes from my community, from violence, here is one Boksic who does not own a store, his kilo of bread does not cost the same as a kilo in another place where there is a store. So his cost is to go to that store. When he takes his child to school because he has no field school there, he has a higher cost because he needs to be brought to school. When she takes the child to kindergarten, the kindergarten is not in the municipality but is in a neighboring place, there is an additional cost. His, what to tell you is his purchasing power is not identical. Source revenues based on the budget show budget revenue, however, do not show the quality of the structure. How many examples do you have where you have certain self-governments with your state-owned land given to certain companies earn income from renting or concessions? However, they do not have employees on this basis. Someone will say that you have income per capita but I would like it to be shown here that we have income per employee, income from the real income that comes from people who work. Or if we were maybe even more accurate, let's show how much revenue there is in the real sector. There's a lot of talk here about the benefits and disadvantages of the real sector sometimes when it's luxuriant is good. However, we see that in rural areas it is mainly based on basic primary some productions where prices are low. And now that we're talking about the lowest price, we can't get the impression that with 130 kunas, no matter how much you increase in those areas, there won't be a new swing. Average unemployment rate as a criterion. Are we counting on those who went seasonal to get a job somewhere? Is that the employment we've created in this area or is it one category we're adding up? Because it doesn't have to mean that when all the facilities are running during the summer in a Adriatic town, when full employment is that we have a job, for example in the east of Croatia. And then we don't have to be surprised about the population movement, because residents go for work, they go for better work, not basics, not those based on minimum wage, but exactly what creates prosperity. And then they stay old. And then we'll measure the old ones. Maybe the old man will show you that they made their pensions in a better time. Unfortunately, and as a consequence of the war, some have had a slightly better pension because they were killed. Some have come back from abroad, so they have better pensions. But I'd like to measure the number of students in primary school, so we'd like to see a real picture when you have a thousand and some residents one, two, three students enrolled. And how then when you have so few students we're going to talk about a new degree of education, a high professional ready when you don't have enough mass, you don't have an initial position from which you're going to produce as many educated people as possible that will bring progress. So these indicators, they can be processed as such statistically. However, they do not show real life on the ground. And I would also like to thank these who would give the replica to me, and I would ask you only if there was a colleague named Sagar behind me if he could answer here on my behalf because I should go chair my committee, so I will just end up with regional coordinators, what I have given one of the key warnings so far from the County Development Agency or some who have been in different forms have shown that they are not all at the same level of engagement and desire to help their environments. And we see that this is how everyone gets the same support. And I would like to assess quality and work, that those who have contributed more, that they get the opportunity for more funding, because that's what we're going to encourage competition, that's how we encourage quality. And we're not talking about arrests, we're talking about people who in their organizations are achieving goals that the Ministry of Regional Development and its founders are trying to draw. These are regional units, as well as local self-government units. Here I would leave the word to my colleague, Sagar, so here I would ask that he may answer questions on my behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63677	Thank you very much. That doesn't make much sense, though, to answer questions, to answer questions. The Rules of Procedure can't do that, so here we go. ... It's all right. [[You can't hear it.]] All right, but I can ask the same questions to my colleague, Sagaru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63678	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, colleagues and colleagues who want to replicate can replicate to me, so I will try the part that my colleague Panenic spoke to. There's not much time left. Here's the deal. We shared this time with our colleague Panenic. I'd point out maybe two, three of the most important things I think is still worth mentioning. First of all, let's not fool ourselves, the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia is what it is. And we haven't touched him in years. We keep running away from that story. On the one hand, you have a story that we have too many municipalities and cities, that they're just a burden, that they're doing in earmarks, local sheriffs. On the other hand, we have a serious story that these units of local self-government are withdrawing few of the funds available to us from EU funds. We have this law that somehow I'd call it Bob Law. He's driving in that track we've paved. We don't want to change her, and he can't be different. He follows these paved paths and tries to improve something that is, it's a little difficult to improve. So, the development indexes 301, 304 I think my colleague Panenic said. Now I don't know the information. This is a problem for the Republic of Croatia. So so many of our municipalities and cities are below the level let's say this kind of poverty, what else are we going to say. We can take different categories or measurement instruments to determine the position of individual units of local self-government, and we will always come to the same conclusion that money is too little, there is too little fiscal capacity, too little administrative capacity and, of course, everything that municipalities and cities have been trying to do all these years, and that is the infrastructure building there was road, there was an entrepreneurial zone falling into the water if we do not attract investors, and one way is by attracting funds from eu funds and developing the economy. And now we come up with a key thing, so the Republic of Croatia lacks a significant number of people who are educational and who are trained to evaluate 2700 people on these jobs and then we have regional coordinators on which this law is also a great task. They have 21, they are mostly county development agencies, there are 365 employees of which VSS 284, so the majority of the VSS and the majority of them are 232 at the structural age of 30 to 50 means in the best workforce, best and intellectual and labour force to be able to achieve these jobs, however, few are. Now we're turning them into public institutions and now, of course, there's a space opening up again in public to say they're going to be funded and so far they're ultimately out of the county budget. According to data on 31 December 2016 more than 4/5 who were employed indefinitely, their salaries amounted to 50 million kuna and 70% of their costs were actually paid from the founder's budget. All 15.50% of the cost of EU-funded projects, 11.09 costs of market activities. So I don't believe that this structure will change and the county will still pay these employees, and as we see it, we have little, if we hire them even more it will be a problem, it will be a problem to present it to the public, and our municipalities and cities continue to tap in place. According to data we could find that 80% of municipalities do not attract or attract funds. And that ministry has to make significant moves to change that. So one of the proposals was, we had here and the Law on Units of Local Self-Government, one of the proposals was now that it was already allowed for the local self-government units to form administrative departments not to have the obligation to establish a single administrative department that these administrative departments were based on administrative departments to attract funds from EU funds to then attract people so that more units of local self-government could join together to work together projects. In addition, this bill allows more counties to work together and develop projects. So to conclude, this law with these certain changes will not result in any significant changes. We've raised the scale slightly higher in terms of the degree of underdevelopment, so it's another 40 we've got 40 more units now. Of course, if you were to stay towards the old ministry, that's 60 more, but there's no other significant shifts. Regional coordinators have been so far, they are mostly development agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63679	Thank you. You have several replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63680	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Žagar, you mentioned the Bob track, the fact that he was unfair about the indexation on regional development that has been changed we have repeated that and that a large number of municipalities and cities of local self-government have been unjustly punished, the fact is also that this law which is... some of the paths does not have any major changes, and I can count it if there is no goodwill, there is no goodwill in Parliament, and there is no goodwill in the government either. If we have areas that die out of Drniš, only now will it serve as a combustion plant of dangerous mud, if we have the Cetin landscape that will serve for the thermal power plants that are being shut down in Europe, and we haven't thought about, say, when we're giving amendments here to four locations to have Drniš on the highway that would be very developed,... bypassing the highway to the Cetinski end, to the imothic landscape, to the merger of the peak end with Drvenik even the islands help to have 20 minutes would be just from Hvar to the coast. So absolute negligentness, this is just the PR's pamphlet that does similar damage to what Minister Greekic suggested in this 2014 Parliament, which is a huge amount of damage in these four, five years in these areas. And even in the Gorski Kotar in my Cetina region, and mainly in the Gorski Kotar, they didn't have enough funds for winter maintenance of the winter service roads. These were huge blows and the fact is that every child is not the same in Zagreb either in the Dalmatian Zagora or in Slavonia, they have free textbooks here, in these places they do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63681	Thank you. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63682	The esteemed colleague Bulj. Ličko-Senj County Development Agency Ličko-Senj County Lira is called 9 employees of 4 of them have 5 VSS, 4 VHS, 1 ESS in the leading places. 9 people Lika-Sen County, what can these people do? I don't know. They will also be under this law by regional co-ordinators. This is an important law, used to be, we used to have in the former state of the congregation of the municipalities. How congregations of municipalities were formed around certain cities, and today we ignored it. Today, cities must be the bearers of development. What can you do in Croatia? They don't need these developmental indices. Take the sixer, stick him in the center of Zagreb and make concentration circles, and then you'll get a situation to see where he is, how a particular region is developed. The further away from the capital, the less developed it is. You can take for all the cities that. But then we reach a smaller area of cities, those of 35,000 inhabitants and less. There's actually a dead-end economic activity. If this insists on continuing on the territorial structure that it is, if there is no courage and political will to move into it, it cannot be done overnight, it should also convince citizens that it is for their own good. If that's not what this situation is about, it's not gonna change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63683	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63684	Thank you very much. My replica was for a colleague of Panenic's, but I'll be able to make her a colleague of Sagar's. So here we are through the debate, or through the debate you have set up several topics and several stories. And I would gently say, and through your debate, there's been a hesitation in those 556 units of local self-government that we have. What does that number mean? Because I think we need to make it clear and loud that not all municipalities can have everything in their area. Not all municipalities can have a sports hall, not all municipalities can have all the facilities because we have been overrun. And the least of the problems is doing it. You'll even do it. It's a problem to maintain. But we are coming up with one of the key problems that you feel in your county, and I am also sure that my colleague Panenic is in the county that is coming. Who's going to work? Look at what we've got on the paper where we've increased the quota for the workers we need. For what workers? For pickers, therefore, for construction workers, for basic tourism workers for whom no additional knowledge and any additional situation is needed. So we can discuss the development index, we can allow municipalities from the central register to say some kind of help. But what we all forget together who's going to do it and who's going to keep it going? And I repeat, the smallest is the problem. You can build a sports hall in one municipality from the European Union funds and everything else. The question is what will it be held of, who will go there, and even when you do, it will be almost a question of who will do it. And it is certainly the place of the Parliament that we begin to debate, people are leaving us, the labour force is leaving us and the next labour force in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63685	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63686	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Dark-Taritash, the key question. Less and less people, and when we talk about the European Charter of Local Self-Government, when I talk about what we are trying for, then we are actually making a systemic mistake with us. We formed municipalities and cities, even some said it was the legacy of the former system. Then we wanted these municipalities and cities assigned decentralised functions so we did it through health care, education, social care. Then what did you see? Only 33 cities can take it upon themselves. And then the county was formed. I don't even know what a county is today. I don't have the right picture of it. When I talk about specific questions, here's how it is. I understand the county, but when we come to specific situations like the county taking a certain percentage to rent agricultural land total nonsense. Oro, oro, oro. What's he got to do with the lease if it's on the municipality's territory? And then we go back, and what is the city of Zagreb? I personally think the city of Zagreb is the only region in the Republic of Croatia. He's a country in the country. He's the only region. And we're afraid of the region. Why are we afraid of the region? That's the question now. Why is politics officially afraid of the region? Slavonia and Baranja should be a region. That's my personal attitude. The moment Slavonia and Baranja are a region, we'll be better off in Slavonia and Baranja. I believe both colleagues from Istria and everyone thinks so. And that shouldn't scare me, you should go into it. Of course, gradually. If this doesn't go into it this way, it won't generally bring good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63687	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Pranjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleague, Sagar. I am the head of a unit of local self-government from the hill-mounted area, and I truly believe that this law is one of the most important laws for both the mountainous area and the assisted area for our islands. We expected indeed this law significantly earlier, we had an announcement by the ministry to read actually on 5 October 2016 in the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Minister Tolusic presented with his associates the information system of data and indicators for the calculation of the development index, the results of model testing and guidance for the development of a new index. For a year we literally have been living in the assisted area of the hill-mounted area. We expected much earlier this form of law, but here today in light of 2018 many leaders do not know what level of the development index they are in. For me, this is really cosmetics itself, because when you look at the parameters, or indicators of the composite index of the new 6, they're 5. I don't see any new decisions regarding demographic characteristics or models that would even take into account the cost of maintaining municipal infrastructure. We were really expecting new three laws, that's the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the Island Act, the Law on the Supported Area. They are defined for quarter 2018, so I really don't know how life will develop in this area in early 2018. But it's also one important thing that we had in the old law, and I see it goes on with these new changes. So what can actually happen to a local self-government unit if a particular indicator of the composite index is regulated in these three years, or until suddenly, some of its changes. For example, income, original income per capita or average income per capita. It will be relived for three years until the new re-index. So no measures have been adopted that could be seen at the annual level so that the development index can be changed over the coming years, not to wait for a three-year period again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63689	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63690	Thank you. Dear colleague Pranic, therefore of course as leader and local self-government, you see and see some problems already. And some more questions will open up there. I don't know about tax returns either. We, so far, have been one of the reliefs, so the state has taken over some of it. Now according to new funding units of local self-government are taking over because by tax, income remains complete to them. And in terms of this move, if someone has a place in the area of one, a unit of local self-government and works in the area of another, I don't know how it's going to be regulated. You're not the first one that, a colleague of the Greeks mentioned and I think after this, there will probably be more to it. These three fundamental laws that matter to bring this law to life. You're right when we talk about indexation, only another population age index was introduced. And something has changed, and of course we have to be all the way accurate in the mathematical calculation of those weighted coefficients so they don't, in order not to have one negative characteristic been annulled with some positive one. In that sense, come on, there are some minor changes. And what we can agree on is the law itself will not solve these important problems. We hope that, if this is a good feature of the law according to the claims of colleagues and colleagues, it will correct certain injustices. I can't and I said it today, I can't be hypocritical. I was a fellow Greek minister, and I welcomed it when 100 units from Slavonia entered the system. Watch out for 100 units. Get in now 40, I say hello, I'll vote for it. I can't say I won't vote for that right now. So, you need to say hello to everything that's good. But we're here to point out that more serious procedures are important to make the system, to get the whole story started and to make our units live. And maybe I still owe it to my colleague Mrak-Taritash, I'm the first to believe that every municipality in the Republic of Croatia has done its job. And all they have to do is stay in the community and help them breathe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63691	The next replica is the respected MPs Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63692	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Panenic's and you colleagues, Žagar, expressed your regret, making as many as 305 units of local self-government below average. If the Croatian average is the starting base, then 50% of the units of local self-government are below and 50% above average. I think we all have to strive to keep that average as high as possible. Because it's a big difference being below a high average or below a low average. Although I have to express my surprise here, if it's somehow 50%, then 305 units are below average and 251 is above. Just as I have somehow read more units of local self-government are given the opportunity to run for grants. So there will be certain competitions when only the first group units, sometimes from 1st and 2nd and sometimes from 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th. Only a large number of local self-government units will have that option.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63693	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63694	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, so here's always the story of whether the glass is half full or half empty, I agree with you and we can watch on that side. And so this really matters what you just said at the end, it's important that units can apply to various programs that are available to them. And it's important that the ministry adjust their operational programmes. Because our biggest problem with attracting funds is that often these programs aren't well prepared simply, they're complicated, there's an inability actually unit to log in. And what is more important in this second part, when we talk about people who will implement, who will help local self-government units, that ministry should make significant progress because regional co-ordinators themselves will not succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63695	The next is the replica of the respected representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63696	Thank you. I signed up for my colleague Panenic's replica, so my colleague, Sagar, will you be given an assessment of whether you will answer. In previous discussions, I focused on the criteria for both faster and more and better, and my colleague Panenic himself talked about priorities in a different way, in a different way with the setting, where he invests that he returns as much as possible, with which I absolutely agree. And when I talked earlier in the debate about the criteria that I'm not re-laborating them. With this, with this indexation, I'm going to repeat, I don't know which times, I absolutely am for helping those who really need it and I'm afraid that the developed ones are going to push into the average, and I'm thinking long-term. If the developed one is pushed to the average then Croatia itself will be pushed to the average. I don't think that's good, so we really need to make it clear. And those laws that follow this law because most of them will probably support it, we have to watch how we will correct the injustice against those who have so far been dragged to allow them to drag on because those who drag will then have the capacity and further help those who need help.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63697	Come in, Mr. Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63698	Thank you, Vice President. So a very short answer because I don't actually have anything more important to add. You're absolutely right, logic itself says if you hang a locomotive and who's going to pull it. I mean, in that sense, maybe these indexation parameters needed more thinking, so maybe, maybe that could be improved. But in any case, if we don't allow those more advanced to evolve, then we will, then we won't be able to help even the poorest. And hopefully here, I hope my colleague Kuščević accepts my amendment. What's important is that those who have less knowledge or less chance of using the experience of those who are better at it. Here's the town of Sibenik has good results why my Slatina would not jointly form an office for, the Office for the Attraction of EU Funds, so that together they could attract as much funds as possible, that's one of those models.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63699	The next replica is a colleague of the Vesligai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63700	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague, actually I've heard from my colleague Panenic, but here, I mean, you also mentioned it in your debate. In fact, we've been discussing these index parameters here all the time today that we've agreed more or less that I'm not going to say they're not good, I'm going to say they're not complete. One more thing, I'm speaking from the point of view of the local leader, we should consider some other things in view of what we are going to adopt in this on the Regional Development Act and then actually set one parameter on the basis of which the Government will adopt the regulation. I'd actually rather discuss the results of the development index already today, so that we can make things right there. From the point of view of local units, I mentioned earlier in a replica of municipal infrastructure, so this is definitely taken into account, and I will complement further preschool education. So these two things are the most important things that one local unit has, so let's say a smaller category, which is why it has not taken over those decentralised functions and most of the cities in Croatia have not taken over them, so that it has in its power. If we take all these things into account, if we establish some parameters, at least for the municipal infrastructure, we can get some more realistic view of the situation as our local units have, and in fact it's not only fiscal capacity, we can't take into account how much they built their infrastructure in their area, how much they invest and how much they should invest because it's not the same to invest in the roads, which was already mentioned in southern Croatia and even in Slavonia to you and, say, in the northern areas where we have, apart from, of course, maintenance in the summer, winter months, happiness in winter is now mild, so it's not so much cost plus that we still have large slides that have turned up on our roads, so these aren't the same things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63701	Thank you. My colleague Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63702	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Vesligaj, what I like in today's debate and in these replicas, I will not put it that way, there is no antagonism between us who are from different parts of Croatia. So we're all looking in the same direction, regardless, someone's more developed, someone's less developed, but we all see that we can only move together. I agree with you because even some rule is in the EU, it is easier to get funds for bigger projects than for less and there should be more wisdom. Get the sewer systems, they're building in Slavonic places. But now, I'm gonna stay decent, I'm gonna try to say it in a picturesque way, and the sewer system needs someone to fill up. So, there should be people, without people, we have nothing. Perhaps these systems should be built then in some larger gabarites, more that the municipality joins, this way eventually we may raise the infrastructure but there will be no kindergarten, there will be no school, there will be no children in schools, and then the problem, that is also mentioned by fellow Panenić in the debate, perhaps it should be one of the main criteria of development, how many children there are in school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63703	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Sagar, there's often been a index of development and withdrawal of money from the EU based on that criterion. I think some mayors are guilty of this index, so they have every excuse not to withdraw money from the EU, that is, the city of Zagreb, or the mayor Bandic, who has often stepped out in that direction and is seeking justification in that direction. However, there are other criteria for withdrawing money from the EU, which is one fund that draws money to solve transport infrastructure in urban areas and that is a huge amount of money the city of Zagreb can withdraw. We who live in Zagreb for years, who were born, know what the traffic situation is, now the mayor is going into a project to rebuild a rotor that would cost about 280 million kuna, of course that money will go from the citizens of Zagreb, not to withdraw money from the EU and has, for example. The Jarun bridge, which would solve 30% of the overload, would actually cost 300 million kuna, but 80% of the funds would go out of EU money and any denivellation of crossing the Zagreb highway at Zagreb Avenue can also be withdrawn from EU money where there would be no traffic lights on Zagreb Avenue and I say it is not that kind of money because 80% of the funds would come out of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63705	My colleague Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63706	Thank you. Dear colleague Sladolev, of course you live in the town of Zagreb and you know the problems of the Zagreb garage. What I can see from the side, according to the data, the City Office for Strategic Planning of the Development of the City of Zagreb has 36 employees compared to other developments of the agency such as Vidra viritičko-podravska or Osijek-Baranja, means very few employees. Of these, 15 employees have high professional equipment, 7 higher, and 14 even have medium professional equipment. Probably not enough is done because what we have already observed in previous discussions these days, Zagreb does not actually have a real road crossing, this is no longer a tour of the city of Zagreb. From the point of view of security, Zagreb must move there because otherwise it will not be good from the point of view of security or from the point of view of pollution, environmentalism. And somehow your mayor seems to me that when we talk about those four elements back in ancient philosophy, he's kind of obsessed with water and the right fountain, and maybe he's giving a busy country maybe more investment in roads and construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63707	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63708	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, you were talking about a poor territorial structure. I didn't understand what you meant, you said the municipalities had fulfilled their function, and I also think they just needed help, that is, through these small municipalities we encourage rural development. You're wondering what the county's for? It was your question as far as I understand it, I think the counties have fulfilled their function because from my experience in the counties as well as these regional coordinators, they are the ones who should help these small municipalities because it is not normal to have small municipalities that have no fiscal capacity, that they are now dealing with European funds. They need the county service through the regional agency, or through these regional coordinators. We need to find ways to help rural areas because what happened in Croatia is that all rural areas have relaxed, that there are no populations and we come into this position, that there is no one to read the fruits, that there is no one to read the apples, I don't know, all these jobs to do, that we are now thinking about introducing new people. Because without a strong rural area, without strong villages, there is certainly no future for Croatia, because what we have in 4 large cities, the whole of Croatia, it will just go towards having no one to work. Because it comes down to one child, and it's practically a very bad future for us. So, yes, but we need a smart tax policy, we need to stimulate or stay in their fields, and this regional coordinator, county, regional agencies, are currently tasked with helping, because they have good human capacities. You've listed how many people, what professional cooks are employed, these are strong human resources, which must help these small municipalities and who must make all these small municipalities live anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63709	Thank you. Now we're going to the next club, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63710	Here's just a short answer to my colleague Sanader, and well, here, I must agree that it's good in this legislative proposal that in the Ministry of Transport or the Agency, I've now lost more precisely either the agency or the Ministry, the supervision of these coordinators. It means they're even. We have a lot of problems in local self-government units and on the salary of the chiefs and everything. Of course, the charter says we don't need to interfere, the representative bodies have to decide. But in these situations we can interfere because we see that some have 25 employees, some 5, some, here is the City of Zagreb, 366. Seems a lot, however, compared to some other county it's a bit. So we should set the criteria, monitor their war. And then finally, with these regional coordinators, which measured how many projects they did. Don't even ever, from the ministry, forgive my colleague Sanader, but here's a representative of the ministry. You shouldn't just look at the amounts of absolutely cash. You should also look at what projects they are. Because it is important that for, and the smallest project is once crucial to the life of a particular unit of local self-government, and what fellow Sanader may not understand, often the county does not have time for all municipalities equally. Because there should be a small increase in the community, that they go by initiative and they get a little teamed up, that they pull more, because the initiative must always go from below.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63711	Thank you. And finally, the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63712	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Sagar, watching politics for 20 years when I haven't dealt with it, I look at you who you've dealt with and you've dealt with, but I wanted to answer Paninić and watch all the failures over 20 years, especially in our Slavonia, where he came from, the support that was given and what was done. You said earlier, the municipalities should be left behind. No, I don't. Only those who can finance themselves should be left behind. My colleague Taritash said there are no workers. Of course there are no workers. We wonder why the problem is, why there are no workers. We're just giving ourselves importance, not giving it to the workers. Since from the real sector, I know what my colleague said they were driving Mercedes BMW, that individuals who are true know how it all came about. I'm asking you 99% of the businessmen barely live. Why? Because we're in comfort, sitting down, not telling local self-government not to tell the sheriffs of certain cities, they're important and not the people around them. The people around them are important, not them. They give themselves importance, give no importance to the people. That's the question, we all have to say it here sometime. The people need to be given importance to the worker. The Germans can't wait for our masters, and here we underestimate them. They're the scum of our society, because we're the size. No. They're sizes, they fixed this. They did it in this country, so they have to go there, they can't do it here. For what? For those of you who talk about politics, and they don't even know what work is and what work is. I personally think that we all ask ourselves a question, what we do, how much we take care of our people. I have to tell the truth, the only government I've seen after 26 years is this government, which has turned the truth to try to solve problems, those who are... Missed you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government has gotten everything back, so GDP is growing and everything is growing, and besides all the problems we have, we just have to give support and show the people that this government wants to do and I believe the truth, if it doesn't, and I don't think it will, I won't give support.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63713	Thank you. The answer of a respected colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63714	Dear fellow Misic, about this part of the real sector, I must agree with you there. We all have to do what the real sector would do to enable entrepreneurs to do business, be competitive, dissipate by increasing. It's about minimum wage, I think it's more important to raise the net salary. To spread the price of work, and that's what's important. And this second part, units, I'm telling you again, units of local self-government, municipalities or cities, do business or work within the scope that the law has given them. You know what the ideal system would be? To get the citizens to choose their mayor, the mayor and him to be the manager. And to tell him, here you go, it's your community, your job, if you're going to work in your room with your computer, if you're going to hire 100 people in the community, if you're going to be 50, we don't care. You've got a balance, now that you're in charge in four years... And what you did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that would be the ideal system. And then there wouldn't be this painting, we're this, we're that. We take a picture in front of that thing, and then on the rental plot, we open up the construction site, and then we take another picture when the rock is dug, and then we take another picture, when I don't know, we go around, and then we go around. Politics has become, in that sense, a clue and comical, nakaradic. So the key thing is to units of local self-government, not to blame for their condition, but to make such a structure that they can function. And then I can agree with you, if they have money, let them survive. But not only is he guilty, because watch out, when you blame local self-government, you actually blame the citizens who live there. So to tell you, for example, the town of Slatina, it was once a congregation of the municipality in which my place is Nova Bukovica. It would be very difficult to get there in the congregation, to get out of the periphery, it's hard. Politically difficult to fight, that's the point. For this reason, the EU encourages units of local self-government and participation of citizens in a democratic organisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63715	Thank you very much. Here, I'm just distracting you, we've managed to do only two points so far, with loose replicas and that pace if we continue somewhere between 10:00 and midnight we'll end up. Uh, two debates, sorry, club debates, and now we're going to go to 3 and that's the SDP MPs' club on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63716	My colleagues and colleagues, an esteemed colleague from the ministry. So in some summary, we've heard a lot about today, about this bill, but I'm going to try to sum up briefly and tell you what the situation is right now. You've had a process that's been going on for the past few months in the direction that a little bit has been erased by all the key instruments of regional policy. They disappeared one by one. For all sorts of reasons. And we don't actually have regional policy at all right now. One segment of that regional policy, it went towards fiscal decentralisation, means exclusively related to income tax and taxes. When you look at some municipalities, I don't know if you analyzed it, taxes and taxes, they range between 20% and 30% of the total revenues of these municipalities. And they've actually become one single and key criteria for a billion and a half kuna to be now divided into units of local self-government, based on that. Is that fair? I'm not sure it is. Is that fair? It's not. If that's only 20, 30% of the total income of those units of local self-government. And the sum of money that the state has in the first place directed towards the regions, according to the units of local self-government, has been spent solely on the basis of this criterion. And where are these economics, where are demographics, ultimately, where is the development index? We've been talking here all day about the development index, and we don't know what they're going to agree on. There's a key problem here. Not to go in now what I was already saying there from the bench, all the inadequacies and this index, which indeed is flawed and a lot of questionnaires open. From that, I say, as Croatia's milk counts, and it is clear how it counts, everything else will be very bad and very wrong and again unfairly and incorrectly, as counterpart Bulj says, therefore, I will not talk about it at all. So suppose that this index is one in a series, which will be applied to some 304 units of local self-government, will be declared assisted areas. And this is because they are less developed than 100%, and not as they have so far been by 75%, which is the usual criterion, in all developed countries and EU member states. 75% is the upper limit, for, which divides the undeveloped, not 100%. Because when you say it's 100%, it's Croatia's second. And we say that Croatia's milk is actually underdevelopment, is equal to underdevelopment. Well, that doesn't make sense, people. Well, we can't do that, here. For our sake, we can't say that. It means that Croatia is extremely well developed then, when someone who is actually treated undeveloped on Monday. That's not true. And that's not correct, and that's why I'm warning you. But when I speak further, so on one side you've now singled out income tax as a criterion and a billion-and-a-half grant, fiscal balance as an instrument. And there's nothing left on the right side of you. The index and nothing. Because all measures have been deleted and the government is waiting to bring in three acts, assisted areas, islands and mountainous mountainous areas, and we have no idea what these acts will look like and what instruments will be embedded in these acts? So what do I vote on? Excuse me. Well, I can't support this law, because I don't really know what it means. It would be quite logical to discuss here a package of laws, where the roof law on regional development is, and that these 3 individual, specific laws, which regulate these 3 specific areas. Supported, islands and mountainous mountain areas. And then we can talk about the whole of regional policy, the systematic approach and what the country really wants. And I regret that the state is not just giving money to local self-government units. I also respect my fellow mayors, captains and all of you sitting here, but that's not the solution. We give you that we, confirming that law as Parliament's representatives, have given, in fact, a binco exchange, so to speak, a billion-and-a-half kuna, and I don't know where that money will be spent. 'Cause money's not meant to be. Unlike some other things that were so far, which were strictly intended. For example, 16% of income tax, which is allocated to HBOR's special account, for needs, islands and island municipalities knew where it was going. It only goes into projects, now it's gone. Now I've got that 16% into all of this number one, I've blurted a little bit, and I don't know where that money's gonna go anymore. So, I appreciate your efforts at local level, but I'm also a witness, and even in my term as minister, that we were seriously dealing with the question of where local self-government money goes and wasn't a small number of local self-government units, which exceeded 20% of the total expenditure, which could go for employees' salaries. A huge number of such units were. That's not right. If we've sent one real criterion, that maximum 20% can go, then 20% must be. Why? So that the 80% remain for development. So that not only the local self-government unit lives its records, 5, 10, 30 or 100, but that a few thousand citizens live there because they will have better infrastructure, kindergartens, schools, etc. Well, there's logic, that's the system. This is all improvisation, hello. This is improvisation. And now we're leaving these targeted measures, and we're sending some money towards them that we don't know where they're going to go. There's a problem. Therefore, I don't think that this is a better system at all now, I don't believe it at all, but I think that we have built up this system with all the shortcomings it has had, but it has been studioed in a way that prefers the quality of life through all these components that one unit of local self-government must take into account regarding the public services it provides to its citizens. The additional arguments for this are the abolition of measures such as increased wages in assisted areas, of course, for those who were able to achieve it, mostly people with slightly higher salaries. But again, it was a very clear goal that teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors in primary protection, etc. that they also have their own personal interest because of this higher salary to go to small places, small municipalities to work there and make a slightly higher salary. Now it's gone. The profit tax, the tax exemption, is also suspended, and there's still something left for the town of Vukovar seems 50% or something that's not good. As much of these small municipalities as we can say are unable to attract the most significant investments for a variety of reasons, because of their location, because of natural conditions, raw materials, this, this, that, labour force ultimately because the depopulated area, etc., but again you had some instrument that meant at least some units an additional incentive to implement certain projects there. Is that true? That's true. Because some factory came in there, and maybe it wouldn't have if it hadn't been for that incentive. Maybe not much, unfortunately. Here's the information that our industry has fallen since before the transition period, so to this day more than half a percent in GDP, unfortunately we have very little of these drives, but still something is being realized. There's a problem. So we lost the instruments of regional policy, and now we don't get new ones, and we don't know what these laws are going to contain, and now I should vote for this law. I can't. I'll vote when these laws come and when we talk about them seriously. Now you see, one more thing about what is further mentioned, and that is the position of regional agencies. I have to say one thesis that led us to the previous government when we, contrary to this process, have now allowed agencies to transform into mixed societies. Why? What was the intensity of this venture? Well, it's because these county agencies, not all of them, are honoring those who did a good job and quality work, not all of them, but most of them did a bad job for whom they were in charge. And we thought that by dragging in maybe even private co-owners into this mixed property would stimulate their efficiency, so nothing else, it was not privatisation but was an attempt to encourage their efficiency through mixed property because if they didn't invest money and participate in it then he was interested in returning. This process is now going in a completely different direction, so let me put it that way. Okay. And it has some logic if we assume that the goal of the agencies is to turn into intermediate bodies for the absorption of eu funds, and then the state will be easier to transfer to them certain functions because it will be able to decree so that I don't know how to employ some more people there, so it will get the right to finance them from eu funds, etc. So there's this logic, but this logic of efficiency to me as someone who's been responsible, and now Minister Grill here that these agencies are doing their job as best as possible, to realize as many projects as possible was the one I've been talking about. So you need to install mechanisms that stimulate efficiency, not that put them back 100% on the state and taxpayers' manpower, and then put them to sleep in some way. You see, these are the problems that we are facing and that we need to think about when we make these kinds of judgments and decisions. So the divided system, in part, as I would say, pasivized measures for regional development and all that unfortunately won't make this development index that we now have useful. That's the problem, that's the point of the problem. I index that we understand, here is my colleague Bulj usually mentions it, my colleague Žagar mentioned 100 satisfied, and my colleague Bulj usually mentions one dissatisfaction behind which he stands very much or two means Vrgorac and Sinj, it only tells you that we were objective when we were trying to create a system, and we weren't localistic to the extent that we are now going to watch, eat there Vrgorac, eat there Sinj, not this, that. So we wanted everyone to be in an approximately equal position and we didn't calculate that much, but we kept the compensatory measures for you first and in the meantime, while the compensatory measures were going on, we created new measures for the mountain-mounted areas. One of the most important, and that's the increased share of income tax we spent, and three measures, I've said it ten times here, and three measures that should have been installed in legal solutions we haven't been able to implement and that was the problem. But it's a fact that, you laugh, but it's true all I said, and I've repeated it here ten times, and I'm standing really tight behind it. So there's no ideal development index, there's always going to be someone in the system, and someone's going to be out of the system. Whoever's inside will be happy and happy and you know what else? They won't speak at all, they won't advertise publicly. And the one who isn't inside will yell as fellow Bull usually shouts, so he'll scream, he'll be loud, etc., etc., but that doesn't mean the whole system isn't good. These are things of individual position in that system where I say they will always be dissatisfied. And trust me, after implementing this new development index, they'll be unhappy again. You will see now that the regulation and the new ranking of units of local self-government are published. There's going to be a little bit less dissatisfaction because the number of these in assisted areas from 260 to 304, I say again thanks to one improvisation. So it's a trivial actually way of increasing the threshold from 75% of the average development to 100% which absolutely makes no sense. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63717	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63718	Thank you very much. Comrade Greek, I remember your debate here in Parliament and as minister and as vice president of the then government and they were diametrically opposed to what you were saying today in a law that was worse than this. You came here with a package of laws, yes, it is true, regional, mountain-mounted, assisted areas, islands you haven't even experienced in four years, there's nothing you've touched, it's a fact, of course, except that the administration and one loan have been abolished... One single loan that we had as a material, as something in our hands that we could do on the islands, 25 million euros from the state, 25 million euros from the loan, and that's the only thing that you've abolished that applied to islands and coastal counties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's your contribution to this area and regional development. Everything else is what you said at the beginning, that there was no regional policy, you changed the mountain-mounted law in a way that left in it that you could read forest fruits without compensation, all the Gorans and all those belonging to that area. All the rest of it was a question, you even came here with the sweat of whether to erase it at all, that it never existed again, that's a fact. And you know what kind of debate we've been having on that subject. You've taken all the tax reliefs you've got from these assisted areas, and now you're saying this government hasn't done anything. With a billion-and-a-half she let into the local government, she didn't do anything. 30 million Sinju is nothing. Well, okay, we'll see if it's something or not next year. But you can't just slowly cross that way and say this is nothing. No matter what you've done, and you've done nothing but damage to regional development, and you have to admit it. And you see how you've been in those areas in local self-government. So all of you step into the space of some sized living room, all your chiefs and mayors. They punished you because you didn't understand them and this law is a framework, it's certainly not the biggest solution we can come up with to bring clean or safe benefits to any local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63719	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63720	Thank you. I mean, in my standard direction without arguments, you just talk, talk, talk and nothing with reality has anything to do with it, and it's your style, but you keep your style, maybe some citizens you can turn to believe you and I can't even trust you people who know what the situation is. Therefore, all measures for regional development have been abolished by you or your government. And at this point in time and with this law, you suspend all measures of regional development that unfortunately have no effect at this time because you've completely transformed it in one other direction so that this development index and everything together doesn't make any sense. When you talk about islands, you know what? Well, it was better not to touch the existing law that allowed island municipalities to have 16% of their income tax revenues in the common cash register for investment than to do what you've now done to stop them. Do you understand that? Well, you've cut them off, so you can't say that you're not defending it from the island either, so give it to me, man, so take care of the interests of your citizens with whom you live on the island. And I've taken good care of both island transport and ferry tickets and the island's land connection and everything else. Absolutely. And I didn't cancel anything, I was just adding. I just said, both the mountain-mounted and the areas you're now talking about have received transitional, compensatory measures, and in the meantime we've made new measures for that area that have been slightly lighter and lighter in a monetary sense than those assisted areas. And there's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63721	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63722	Thank you very much. You said well, yes, I was quite loud, not only when I was in Parliament but I was even collecting petitions that I also personally referred to you at that time when amendments to the Regional Development Act were adopted in 2014 which really declared municipalities and cities that are in Gorski Kotar, in Dalmatia Zagorje such as Sinj, Vrgorac, Tisno, municipalities less developed, which is unrealistic. I mean, a lot of villages out there don't literally have water supplies, let alone anything else. You took certain indices, criteria, that's how it was. However, the fact is, and I would agree in this work with you if I didn't know at all what we're talking about right now, I really don't know if we really didn't pass these three laws on islands, or the Law on an assisted area or the Law on the Mountain Area. In fact, we're talking about fog here, and these ends expect a fairer system of regional development. Because the fact that these areas are empty, the fact that you helped, too, is the fact that there was an indication in 2009 that you accepted by the HDZ government in 2009 or the 10th Jadranka Kosor government and they accepted it. But here now we've expected a lot more, a lot more of what we'd like to know. And here there are no parameters other than the parameters of six similar indices that you had. Therefore, much more was expected. And most of all, the only thing that has changed has changed that the Agency for the Development of the Three County, regionally that there will be no more companies but institutions, that can pump money into it. Well, it better be companies if they're going to do something, even if it's a public-private partnership. But now the Law on this will become the institutions of these 13 others. The fact that even one part already... I can pump up money so they can get involved, so they can be local bases and still be voting machines in the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's it. It's a fact, it's only visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63723	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Bull, that's it. And now it's like me and my colleague Boric are reading different documents. From what we've been reading, obviously we don't see anything that looks like a measure for mountainous and mountainous areas, for assisted areas and for islands. There is no measure there, and the minister also said in the introduction that they would try to define it in some new legal acts. But at this point it just doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. And we don't know what we're talking about. So we're really talking about some kind of wide global framework, and I don't really know what it's wearing to these units. And of course what you said about the agencies as well, I explained maybe too much time to do that, to say what was the intensity of us before, to increase the efficiency of these institutions because we knew that there would be problems with the absorption of EU funds. Current situation in which 4 years after the start of the financial perspective 2014/20. Only 7% of the funds paid by the EU-based projects are talking about the alarming state and the need for the state in its part but also the county and development agencies that we are now talking about to build a certain step. How are they gonna make it? Who's going to press them on that? Whether the state and state property or county property, all the same is a local state or regional, it's a big issue. And whether this mechanism that is now proposed will be more effective than this existing one. I'm skeptical.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63725	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63726	Dear fellow Greeks, I am not skeptical at all because, for example, the city of Zadar with your reform, we lost more than 25 million kunas with a letter and a figure proven. All these measures that have existed so far for the hill-mounted mountains, whether for the islanders are actually detained and there is a possibility of further improvement. When you said that regional agencies, we had established as a business society of the city, two cities and a county and it proved in fact that, even as units of local and regional self-government, we had to pay VAT. Why? Because the intensity of our cities and municipalities was also a very large production of projects, and that way we were punished. Before this law was passed, we turned it into an institution, because it was only rational in which case that the services of the municipalities or the cities of the founders and the county were. So there's the other side of the story. So it can't be said that this doesn't make sense because I, for example, can prove it to my own. Here's how we shouldn't be so skeptical, as far as pay levels are concerned, so these measures have actually stimulated the increase in all wages with tax policy measures. So the goal is to transfer income tax to local and regional units, to really stimulate employment and thus make the difference actually bigger revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63727	The answer of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63728	So I want to comment on two things from my colleague Grodan. First of all, you haven't lost 25 million because of regional policy. It has nothing to do with this subject. So it's a matter of tax reform that you just spent a year or two repeating once more. And yet it affected the incomes of local self-government. Well, yeah, well, I mean, there can't be a tax tax charge on income without units of local self-government running out of funds. Let's let it go now. So it's not today's topic. It's another thing. You've completely missed this topic of salary expenses. What was the essence of my exposure? That giving non-intentional support by the state and on the burden of Croatian taxpayers to local self-government units, therefore non-purpose, so for which it is not known where it will go opens up the possibility that you in the city of Zadar or someone else hires new people. Here I am witnessing that in Split every authority when it came has increased in that mandate by as many city administrations as possible. Is that normal? Well, those people over there, they crash down the halls, they don't know what they're gonna do. They don't even know what they're doing, what their goal is. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, the 20% income limit, or expenditure, is the key to limiting the further spending of funds for an inefficient and massive administration of the so-called so-called so-called administration. In the event that these funds are explicitly directed into capital projects, they shall be included. That's the intensity of what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63729	Thank you. We will now move to the club of representatives of IDS, PGS and LRI in the name of which the respected representative Tulio Demetlika will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63730	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished representatives of the ministry. Today we are discussing long-awaited amendments to the Regional Development Act. In the context of this law, specific attention should be paid to changes in the calculation of the index of the development of units of local and regional self-government as long as the representatives of the association of cities, associations of municipalities and counties have been required for a longer time, as they expected that, with these amendments, the division of financial support would be fairer and more uniformly implemented. I do not want to go into these technical changes at the very beginning, because we do not see any revolutionary changes from this law, we do not see any significant reform because the current approach to the regulation of the legal framework for the evaluation and classification of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the identification of assisted areas remains. Moreover, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is left in the jurisdiction to regulate indicators by a regulation... the development index and other issues related to this, as well as the decision to evaluate and classify units of local self-government according to the level of development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal does not take care of the developed ones. Development is in itself a good and positive environment, however, when it is penalized or how the ruling ones like to say under alleged signs is positively discriminated against in terms of the use of funds from budgets or European structural and investment funds, then the calculation model itself becomes discriminatory given that when compared values are taken into account at the level of the Republic of Croatia rather than at that European level. In the IDS, we represent the view that the most developed regions should be further developed according to European standards of development. This means that we need to reach the level of regional development in modern European democratic states such as regions in neighbouring countries of Slovenia, Italy and Austria. This law defines only the frameworks for the new redistribution of the unit of local self-government, but we believe that this law should have come in a package with the Law on Supported Areas because we do not see who will belong to which group from the Law on Regional Development. Although we do not know the new indices, we can conclude that Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County as the most developed Croatian county will be in the most developed group, which means they will be cut off, and by the ministry we hear that we do not want to cut anyone off. The new bill instead of the five groups so far categorisation of local self-government units according to the degree of development takes place in eight groups. Four development groups have been detained for the categorisation of regional self-government. The result of the new categorisation, at least according to the preliminary results of the new model instead of the current 264 units of local self-government that have the status of assisted areas, would now have 304 units of local self-government. The results of categorization for the counties show that according to the new model, one county exits the assisted area system and one enters. We're basically staying on the same page. For the purposes of overcoming development restrictions or specificities facing islands and mountain-mounte areas, they shall be declared in areas with developmental specificities and shall be governed by a special law. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation and is obliged to make sure that there is a need for areas with developmental specificities to be declared and other parts of the state territory of the Republic of Croatia, and to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of appropriate laws. The question arises as to what the Government plans to do and how it will allow the areas ranked in above average developed units of local self-government and county to further develop towards European standards. The proposed model of calculation of the development index will allow more units of local self-government to enter a group of assisted areas. However, it will also create a justifiable dissatisfaction with those municipalities and cities and counties that are most developed, as they do not provide any more favourable conditions for further economic development. The dissatisfaction that is visible from examples of other European countries can result in citizens protesting and pleading through referendums by seeking new models of funding for local and regional self-government. I'll do it again here. The IDS, PGS and RI have nothing to do with encouraging the development of less developed areas. We've always shown solidarity and responsibility. We support the wish of Minister Žalac, i.e. The Ministry of Regional Development to correct injustice against a number of units that have been abolished by a valid methodology. However, I ask the question of how long-developed areas should wait because they are also cut off by all tax reforms so far. I therefore expect the Government to propose to the Croatian Assembly, by taking care of the need for these developed areas, the adoption of appropriate laws to encourage their further development. We would not want to wait another 20 years in the same place until all Croatian regions are brought to the same level of development. If we wait, we will be overcome by those European regions that are behind us today by development which is not good at all. IDS agents have said this many times, but I'll do it again. Don't stop the locomotives they're pulling, 'cause that's how you slow down the whole train. What is good for Istria is thought to be good for Croatia as well. If you enable the most developed regions and help to continue to develop, they can further help other areas and all of Croatia. If you don't invest in them, they can't make enough progress on their own, which will mean a lot of damage to the whole country. In addition to the development index, I would like to talk about another topic, and it concerns the definition of the legal form of the regional coordinator. This proposal for a law does not allow the founders of regional development agencies to choose the legal form of regional co-ordinator, which should certainly be left to be chosen because of regional specificities. I will take, for example, the Istrian Development Agency, which has been the regional co-ordinator of the development of the Istrian County for many years. It is basic by the Istrian County and all Istrian cities in its time as the first development agency in the Republic of Croatia. The legal form of the company was most suitable for the operational, fast and innovative body as the development agency is and should be. According to all analyses and relevant research, the Istrian Development Agency is the most efficient development agency in the Republic of Croatia with the highest self-financing rate of over 85%. The Istrian Development Agency, based on the requirements and needs of all founders, implements a wide range of field diapazon activities, primarily aimed at support programmes and infrastructure for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and development of the Istrian County economy in general. The very concept of strategic planning and regional development are closely linked to the needs of the real sector in Istria. the activities are practically indivisible. Therefore, by imposing the form of a public institution for regional development coordinators, it is certain that it is no longer possible to reconcile to reduce the scope of development management in the territory. We understand why the ministry is proposing this model. So far, the experience of implementing regional development projects and projects and the cooperation between local, county and state levels is not satisfactory, you show that you are putting both capable and incompetent into the same basket. Through the Regional Development Agency, you centralize the system, you introduce into the Enlightenment without taking care of the specificities of certain areas, you lack flexibility. We cannot be satisfied with..., we are aware that we are small and that only high quality can we rise from average and keep up with developed regions of Europe. We all need to make it possible for everyone to develop. Therefore, we expect from the IDS, PGS and LRI Club that the Government, with the Law on Supported Areas, the Government Regulation on the calculation of the Index of Development, the Law on Mountains and the Islands Act also proposes a law for further development of the most developed areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63731	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63732	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Demetlika. We also had a debate on the parliamentary committee, in fact what we can agree on, we expect something to be better. You have also made it clear that this is a promise, so you expect a promise. I only know that we all strive for excellence, even for those of us who have problems in development that are greater than in your county, we strive also to one day break away from being viewed as a burden, is it also a vivid memory of us who are here that the area of my Vukovar was at that time one of the most developed in the former Yugoslavia. So sometimes small shifts or small decisions can change a lot. And I would like that and through this law that precisely this pressure that is created and through regional coordinators who should be carriers to pass on that and your experiences. You say ours are the best, we have ours there, but sometimes we should really determine what the standard is, which is the standard of action that may be organised once thematically with all these representatives sitting with us to see how they function daily, which they are currently carrying out, which are their reference successes with which they are being raised, to see how much investment has been invested in any of these agencies, so maybe we can find a model that will help the ministry to be more quality in forming their support to those agencies. I honestly doubt that some of them will only become more effective if they get more money. So here's what I'm asking you to do, and I'm asking you to find a model of how we do it best in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63733	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague of Panenic's. As you said yourself, we've discussed on the board, but I'm going to commit to the part where you've been putting your club's position today and you've said one sentence and I'm going to agree, and I see that we agree on a lot of things on average there's no progress. And that's exactly what we're fighting for, and you've mentioned now that just examples of good practice are applied to a wider area of the Republic of Croatia which often by the ministries or the Government is undetectable that they want to install it. In fact, they are always guided by solving problematic environments, but today in this assembly it has been said repeatedly that for 20 years we have certain laws for assisted areas, that we invest 20 and over 20 years without looking for results. We have no measured value for what we have invested and what returns to us. And here I agree with you what you yourself said should be rewarded by those who are capable of being even better and better quality, because they will all bring well-being in the territory of Croatia, as well as encouraging and motivated those who have not shown themselves well so far because they have been taught to get help, and no one has asked them about the results and efficiency of the funds invested. You said the priorities themselves should be defined and put into these priorities because with these priorities we will recover quickly. Not just to share without having to go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63735	Thank you. The next Club of HNS representatives and time will be shared by respected representatives Curaj and Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63736	I would like to thank the Vice President and the Honorable Ministers with their associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll be the first part just a little bit more focused on this area from which I come to Slavonia and Baranja, which this law and previous laws mean to us. First of all, I wish we were in the same position as some of the colleagues here who brought this law to them unfairly. I would like to be in such a place that this law does not affect 37 or 39 of 42 municipalities and cities in Osijek-Baranja County, or a large number of those of which, of 301 have below average, or with indexation below average, that it is not. I'd be the happiest. Of course, there is more reason why, first of all, than the unprepared transition from one planned economy that the war hindered were great giants and disappeared with work, stopped, people stayed and it was not in time to recuperate. And this is exactly the kind of law that gives us the opportunity to introduce even development. If there is another model in which we will enable those below average, where people move away, to stimulate them, to give them relief, to give them greater access to the funds, whether state funds, whether European funds, or not, I'm in favour. What is seen here today should certainly be talked about the even development of the whole of Croatia. I already mentioned once that the state and any system is economic or whatever it is we're looking at, strong as its strong and weakest link. Unfortunately, with great regret, my end is precisely this weakest link. In previous law, 56 million directly more funds came to these municipalities in Osijek-Baranja County in 2014. So, indirectly, there are still tax benefits or income tax reliefs in craftsmen, which I mentioned if they have five or more employees on indefinitely as regards d.o.o. Or two to an indefinite twist. But of course, the more developed they always grow at a higher rate and faster rate, and that is why we need such laws to enable even development. What is certainly important is that we already have a divided Croatia and that is clearly half-male, and we have to get these gaps, and we have to cut these gaps, not stimulate them. That's why this law that brings in another 51 units of local self-government that are falling, of course we'll welcome the HNS as well. Because right now no one can say, this is what colleagues discussed well that this average Croatian is something special. It's not. We should certainly refer to the European Union average. And of course, then rarely anyone would be there, I think that Zagreb may still be in Istria, perhaps the county itself, to have that average of the European Union. That's what we know about those nuc regions. That's all they said anyway. But let's take it one step at a time. Let's go help out where help is most needed, let's go absolutely forward to make it possible, actually we're giving this one framework, we're not giving anyone anything, but just a framework and a possibility, and we need this through these regional coordinators to stimulate further and encourage people to withdraw funds to use and to all of those benefits that these groups bring us. We now have 8 groups, so 4 are below average, 4 above, each carrying its benefits relative to attracting funds. The indexation that is done with several new elements, or methodologically, is expanded, of course, and is taken 100% of the average as the limit, not 75%. I say once again, I wish our borders were the averages of the European Union, not Croatia. Because Croatia can never move forward as long as there are these regions and places where people move to where they need urgent help. For the reasons of countless, we are guilty of something ourselves, there was war, especially war-affected areas, especially by the sudden change in the very economic circumstances, or economic circumstances, but it's all behind us. And what is ahead of that is certainly the future and this law will certainly contribute to the fact that another municipality can certainly develop and that the other law that we have discussed here, and the changes in income tax exactly and the richest ones benefit from it, the richest municipalities and cities. Not the poorest of them all, especially those where GDP percapitates high because it will have the most effect at all. Of course, we've been thinking about those lowest ones again, so there's a balancing fund where they're going to be net losers. So this is one so-called, it's already bound to some laws, and we need to start acting urgently because we don't have to waste time, we can't, and we can't afford it at all. And finally, before colleagues Batinic takes over, we will certainly not deal with this overnight in Osijek-Baranja County and Slavonia and Baranja. But once again I appeal, it is the frameworks that we have an obligation to bring as a Government and as a Parliament and to allow people who know, can, have the competence to develop. Osijek-Baranja County is one of the leading ones regarding the withdrawal of European funds. But of course that's not enough. Still can and still has space. And this is exactly the kind of law that makes it possible for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63737	Here's my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63738	Thank you, Vice President, Minister with your associates. Of course, we view these amendments and additions to the law as improving the existing regulation and one progress in order to make what is the goal of the Republic of Croatia far greater concern about regional, even development of all areas, without denying the right to those who are more developed than this average, which is defined by the new indexation. I'll briefly refer to certain points and specific areas. In fact, when we talk about regional development I read that we are talking about regional self-government, it means the level of the county. In the context of this regional coordinators, I also talked about it on the board. The idea is simply good for several reasons because I don't see any other way but that they are the existing resources to function as a whole regional development at the level of the Republic of Croatia. However, Imams and certain reflections in another direction, or I would like to point out something that I suppose may be a problem in the implementation and realization of this praise of a valuable document. Regional coordinators as public institutions o.k., my idea is thinking in HNS when you want to do something quality to simply centralize things so that you can control and implement them. I primarily believe that regional co-ordinators in what form, form, should be able to extend the arm of the Regional Development Agency and under direct jurisdiction because this is where the regional development policy of the Republic of Croatia is implemented at one level at the county level, as far as I read the role of regional coordinators. And you can read it very easily from this part when spoken, criteria or when the Agency carries out an accreditation procedure which can be an accredited coordinator. This is a life story, this is an experience, so they have to meet the coordinators. In the light of the duties and tasks of the coordinators of the system of management of sensitive jobs, further, the plan to manage the possibilities of conflicts of interest, etc. This is going to happen absolutely in practice. It will be very difficult to avoid certain subjective assessments that may even be in terms of some mediation and good, but of course we are not saying this in the context that we do not support this, we support but I point out possible implementation problems on the ground. And this 180-day deadline to translate whether these are development agencies, the county's how it's going to form seems rather long. But I'd like to make it in 180 days, that's extremely ambitious. You have to change this law gives a basis, you have to change the paradigm thinking of these people who work in those agencies. In exclusive jurisdiction were the mayor, not thinking in this context something negative and focused exclusively on a particular area. Although I say this law defines local co-ordinators as they are and how they are, they must implement a policy of regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to say about the new development index itself, I consider this to be an improvement because we have also seen that the former indexation in some way did not respect certain specificities, certain specificities, although we do not have a simulation to do the comparison, but from what can be read from the reasons I expect this to be far more just. And what's certainly good, that's an index of 100, the average of the Republic of Croatia above the average and below development index. It's absolutely by me a far more quality solution than it was before. Whether many will find it hit or not, it is now but I think in this part and as far as calculating that far more units of local self-government gets than it doesn't get, I won't say it loses but doesn't get. The fact is that previous laws have in some way favoured more areas than other parts of Croatia and therefore I see these changes and additions as one balance, one balance. The aim is not only of this law, this law if we look at it in context, although it has no bearing on the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government where those units below the average and from municipalities and cities and counties have also received a financial injection through the index of balancing, it only gives them a better position that this law and of course what we are in this financial perspective are European, and especially in the next, that they can come more quality and improve the absorption of European money. As for the part that will regulate the means of the islands, I failed to read here whether certain movements will occur, islands are islands, but as far as mountain-mounted areas are concerned, will some environments lose their status or is this an existing state? I guess unless it's listed here that it's an existing state based on the latest amendments to the law, it's acceptable. And what I am particularly pleased about, although I wish there were more opportunities for a programme to promote regional competitiveness, competitiveness of competition and here, I believe that it might be through sublegal acts, although there is a defined methodology assessed to try to stimulate both quality through regional development programmes and through some other measures precisely to strengthen and competitiveness within the region or even local self-government units. Minister, I have an objection which is principled, and I would like it if you would accept it to be considered, namely this part of the reporting. There is a proposal that by 30 April means to be seen, submitted by the central authorities of the state administration on the effects of the implementation of the programme by 30 April, and then returned that report to the Ministry by 31 May, so the county submitted until 31 May. I don't think those deadlines are acceptable, they're too long. We've been practically a year of calendar loss so that we can get into the parliamentary procedure, and especially you who are in charge of controlling it, you get documents at the end of the year for something, or reports, valorisation, evaluation of the implementing measures that are the effects. I think it's too long a deadline. And I also believe that these deadlines, I suggest that by September 1st, a practical report come to the Parliament, complete reports, complete procedures. I believe that this would be a far more acceptable time-limit because the laws are being amended equally here, and I believe that it would be more useful for you to be able to change sublegal acts, or even the law itself, with the ultimate goal of even better regional development. The HNS club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63739	Thank you very much. We first have replicas on a colleague named Curray. Dear Representative Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63740	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Curai. With what you've been putting out, I can only say yes. It's not only that Osijek-Baranja County, but it's also my county that's leaning. We do, we share the same problems. Perhaps in some parts it is better, somewhere worse, but generally means the east of Croatia, the whole of Slavonia, Baranja and Srem suffer from the same problem. We are constantly looking for, trying and through national measures to find this exit to finally define ourselves as a region. What I personally mean to you is this message here and perhaps through you and your ex-president and here's the almost future president that no longer happens things like it was and the reasons for my criminal application are actually about the manipulation of grants. Because that way, it means not that it doesn't comply with any of the criteria of this law, but that was even what I would say and narrowly politically looking at you, I mean your party doesn't accuse you personally of it. But what remains is simply one negativity, expectations that you are now participating, you are participating in power. Your ministers, your officials should respect that there are needs throughout Croatia somewhere and where you may not be present, where you do not have the strength to prove yourself that you can be a national party. In that way, laying funds in only two areas where your ministers are definitely not any form of strategic thinking except perhaps some political proof. I say we should, and here's the application still stands, it's being processed, and it's going to burden you like that. I mean, there will be an answer to that, and primarily there will be an answer to the way you behave your prominent officials in this government because this is what HDZ expects of you as a big brother and that things don't happen again after a term of office, another option that will call you for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63741	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63742	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad you agreed in one piece. I'm sorry that this debate went to one part that I remember being two and believing there for sixteen years. As far as I know your inspections haven't found anything illegal, so some alluding to criminal acts don't stand. But what's certain is that I think it's the obligation of every minister to make it possible to compete, programmes, projects that will go there that are most needed. And call someone just because he's from Slavonia, so something's come to Slavonia. I wish nothing had come to me and we didn't need a kuna. It means everything goes where it's needed most. Unfortunately, I've said that before, we're not in that situation. And that was going on as much as I remember municipalities that had nothing to do with HNS, but had nothing to do with the fact that they were from Slavonia and Baranja and a few of them from Osijek-Baranja County. And in fact, I call on all ministers to look exactly that way, that however, in whatever way that is transparent and in a way that allows for the law of this Republic and this law here in the same way is supported by those areas where it is most needed. I'm not going in who's what, where, how. Here's a colleague said the same thing. We can watch how many Metkovic projects went, unfortunately, where most of your colleagues are and everything. So if there's anything they need in Metkovic, I'll be the first to do it. Why would these people be brought as hostages just because some party official from Metkovic. Now, if that's where 20 went, and nothing else, it's a different story. But why not help where help is most needed. So more politics, especially coming from the same neighborhood. I think we should stick together before we attack each other, because we'll never lead Slavonia if we charge each other like that. And I believe that this law will first of all allow our people to add themselves down and join their smart heads and bring something better to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63743	Thank you. We have several replicas on the respected representative Batinić. He's the first respected representative of Mark Welligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63744	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's counterpart Batinić, I could agree with you in that part of the debate where you mentioned regional coordinators. I certainly agree that there should be one framework that the state will set up in some way and centralise it. And actually then drop down towards the county or cities where it's possible. Here are the good examples we definitely have. I am pleased to mention, in fact, the development agency from Krapina-Zagorje County which is extremely successful also in withdrawing projects and I believe that this job will do very well. What I wouldn't quite agree with you is you mentioned actually that we have a calculation of the development index itself if we had one progress. I just didn't see anything there except the ageing index of these changes that occur in terms of the degree of education of the population. What I've already mentioned several times, I expected a little more to be seen in fact the state of municipal infrastructure. If we have somewhat mitigated these differences between local units, the new law on the financing of units of local self-government, which I believe is not good in one part, because it has all been directed exclusively at income tax, and we know that the state usually intervenes regardless of the hair in it and therefore it decreases. I expected at least a little emphasis that we would place here on the communal infrastructure that we unfortunately have in our regions Krapina-Zagorska County, Varazdinska, Međimurska, we have a lot in poor condition because we have densely populated areas, we have extremely small original incomes per capita and we couldn't invest there. It won't be enough for us to get these funds through the new law on funding units of local self-government to come to some level and that we can actually give our citizens a real standard that they deserve. I repeat once again, I believe that this municipal standard is the most important thing for people to stay alive, of course with the promotion of education and education, to stay alive in our areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63745	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63746	Thank you. Well, you probably have one experience, and I have another experience, and I guess, and I know that it will be because, in the development of regional strategies, or county development strategies, I saw exactly what is here in the area where regional coordinators are talked about, I made it very clear which criteria local coordinators have to respect. This is a life story. That's the way it is, except as far as I'm assuming it's about equal political compatibility, which is a negative relationship in relation to the implementation of this law. So political compatibility is the negative part that can affect local coordinators. As far as the development index is concerned, I certainly think that the improvement if we look at the existing one is still current, then you have one disproportionate of those that are 50% of the development and those that are 110. In all indicators, this is now about 8 classes, 5, 4, below average and 4 above average. Of course these colleagues who are, I don't know, 5. 6th, 7.8th group by the development index they simply feel that it's an injustice and they won't be able to get anything. No, I don't. They will be able to apply equally to the European Union funds as well as to everyone else. And as for the lack of respect for the development index through the communal infrastructure in which it is, in this context, wrong. At the same time, I agree, I was thinking equally, but when you go to a little reading of literature, the standards that the European Union respects, then it's a completely different index of some kind or I don't know what it should be if it concerns municipal infrastructure. So this is one standard that simply is established in the members of the European Union and is applied to us as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63747	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63748	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Batinic, you have opened a very important topic regarding regional co-ordinators and what this bill now provides. Namely, one of the points that the regional co-ordinator will now work on is the development of a county development strategy. It's a very serious job and requires certain resources. We, according to this data provided by the Ministry, see that regional coordinators in the Republic of Croatia have different numbers of employees and different professional equipment of these employees, different age structures. As a rule, it's a good thing they're basically a high-tech cook. The criteria that you now state here which minister will prescribe by regulation, of course the number of employees, the employment plan, the register and the education plan, etc. Now only a key question is asked, and where, as my colleague Bulj says, where is the money? Who's gonna pay for it? It's clear to me that the county will pay for it. Now, here we come, the accreditation as far as I understand it will be given once. But who will later, the Ministry will supervise. The law doesn't specify when it can in any case be taken away, or I haven't seen it, accreditation. Because this ratio between the funds paid from the public budget, therefore, from the county budget is generally 70% of the funds come from the public budget so far, only 15% of the European Union funds have been realised. How will this criterion be evaluated during the work of regional coordinators? Here is the Ministry's 2016 announcement. The operational programme of competitiveness of technical cohesion in the... programme and allocated worth 25.2 million kuna of grants. We don't see what the coordinators got. In other words, the ministry will monitor the quality of the work of these coordinators and in which cases it will be able to confiscate them from accreditation and assign them to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63749	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63750	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Zhagar, I believe that you have listened carefully, so in that implementing section, we have some doubts that there will be a functioning or implementation of these laws in that part of what regional coordinators should do. I suggested that they be part of the Regional Development Agency, i.e. the extended arm of the Ministry. I am a liberal, and I simply do not advocate centralization, but in this part. Because if we look at the final goal of 2020, the greater the absorption of European money and the other European perspective of 2027, the key role regional coordinators will play. So if you want to achieve a goal, then you have to control it. Unfortunately, because I see from practice and in the design of county strategies, let's be honest, some of them are not even digestive readings. And let alone give the direction of regional development, county development or something else, which is the goal. That's what I'm afraid of, so I'm talking about expertise, competence and the part where politics should put an end to "i" giving that negative context. As far as making itself is concerned, here is the second point, the Final Proposal of the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Development Management. This is a key law, this is a key law, so here's a chance if you're going to listen to my debate about this second point, so we can comment on the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63751	Thank you. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63752	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister with her assistants. Here all day we are discussing the most important law or the most important law for forgotten areas of all governments, these are areas 2/3 of Croatia let's be realistic they are underdeveloped because... as a colleague from the HNS 20 projects were in Metkovica or Sinj because it was not in the interest of Metkovic or Osijek, it was more in the interest of HEP of his pocket to host his people, and it was not about the interests of the projects. It was exclusively working how to put verelectrica without using money from renewable sources in your own interests, and that was the only way the exploitation field was working, for example. The trill area, the cetin area, here's a little bit of an indication of what we've been through. If we had taken care of regional development today we would have no data in this area in Croatia, let's say that in the last 10 years we have 2.5 thousand classes, we lost more than 60 thousand children a year during that period of 10 years. So that's a huge problem. And the fact that bad policies, interesting policies, policies that favored an individual essentially forgot about even development. And I'm going to start now from a few things I'm going to ask the minister, I believe in these private talks with her coalition partners will also hear the voice of those MPs who will ask a few questions. Well, here's a distinguished minister asking why this law of the Agency of Development changes the law that there must be mandatory institutions when there are 13...? A simple attitude, that more can be adopted, let it be denied by the Minister Mrs. Grief, that she may be fostered by what reason? That's why it's not a company so public private partnership but 13 agencies that are companies will now transfer them to institutions so they can load money of course that they can receive as much as possible their own people, which is usually the policy of the county, it's known to my colleague Šipic, he knows how it works... and simply on that basis a electoral body is created. The more money goes into those facilities, the more money you can't pay off the company's donations, let's understand each other. I think that this Minister of the Tribal would explain why no more companies than mandatory institutions, that you will have to explain here to the public whether they simply or want to work, if they do not want to work, then they can be institutions, but they want to work then they can be companies and they can be very development companies and that their goal is either to love and create an additional electoral potential of the lobbyist of course. Here I am now going back to this existing law and what I expected from this. I personally did not support the 2017 budget because of this, and I was in the ruling majority then, you can remember that and that is a fact. The people have evicted from these areas where I come from, evicts exclusively because of what my end of Vrgoračka end, the Gorski kotar has declared to be developed, no matter what parts of these areas have no water supply, no free transportation of students, no free textbooks but have to be centralized by local self-government, since of course the government will never accept the amendment that all students have free textbooks but must have in Zagreb, it is very important that we centralise a few major centres and smaller units that have to do this from their poor budgets and great damages have been done. I expected here that we would see these three laws as well, in fact, to see what concerns what local self-government. With your indexes you've given, there's no change here, I'm even afraid this is worse than it's ever been before. What is the indexation of the average unemployment rate, how will you calculate this average unemployment rate? Do you want to see seasonal workers or how you're going to look at them? You simply wrote five, six measures, and we don't have that worked out, we don't have a projection or anything else. In the end, he would only briefly tell the minister if he would answer these requests that the area 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is expecting real assistance, not marketing aid or how he said PR aid where 10 billion kuna money will be used, and even 10% of these funds will be implemented, but 10 billion will still be realised to help local self-governments that have neither potential nor personnel to meet it. It's funny to you, Minister, but to my Sinju and Cetin end it's not funny, it's not funny with flat wheels, it's not funny in villages where they don't have water supply, it's not funny where schools are empty, it's not funny. Of course, you can laugh at us fellow MPs because that's how you award funds in competition, without competition, it's perfectly natural. It's funny again, if I'm speaking. Are you going to answer our questions, or are you going to listen to us, or are you going to laugh? I mean, seriously, these are areas where there are no residents, where we don't have free textbooks, you've brought us the proposal we expected, we've been expecting for years promised by Minister Tolusic, so we didn't realize. What made the disaster of Minister Grcic, you think you will correct, but here the correction is obvious to us. You'll have to explain it in detail, in detail. Those ends are totally neglected. What incentives they have in this area are people who want to work there or remain entrepreneurs through these measures, who think people who want to work in health care, education. No one's really thinking about these parts. Of course it is important for everyone to reach Zagreb or Ireland and it is the only way. And through the budget, you haven't shown a good will to change things. For these areas, a number of amendments were made. Even for free textbooks for all elementary school kids. This government has shown no measure or will. The only thing that's very important is that the coalition was established, that Parliamentarians were caught in the halls that are now holding our brains here, and the whole other one had entered the team. Let's just say the HNS was a total fraud to the SDPs. We went on our own. You took, you gave them, you rewarded them with a mandate to be with HDZ. So, the only thing you've done neatly is do it. So I'd like you to visit all these parts, see how people live. And yet again, the only thing we have become is the exploitation field of harmful projects such as the Peruca thermal power plant where Minister Pejcinović Buric is directly favored and where, for example, in Drnis where this mud is incinerated, which is poisonous to burn, we are only serving for exploitation. These parts have been forgotten to count again from Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Ravni Kotar, Slavonia where you come from. It may be funny for the MPs to say so, but the fact is that a large part of the village does not even have water supplies. They have no water solved in the 21st century and have been declared or developed. And by this law now, the only thing you've done well is create an office because you've abolished and the agencies are required to be the institutions of this development agency at the county level. So, once again, I want you to explain to us all the misunderstandings that the MPs have set up here and I expect from you work, not just laughter, a pier. And, of course, I expect from you because of your even development because of the same conditions and allocation of funds in competition, and not without competitions and your friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63753	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63754	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, what I can only say is that after so many years of waiting for the development of your neighborhood, I see that out of you simply patience has come out. No more understanding, no more trying. Therefore, the attempts are over. All this time, really, what is it? Fight you only to have a better life in a place where you live that not all your discussion must be the calling of the ruling. And in the end, who's responsible? Always the ones who rule. And they would say, let's rule so that they have a good intention of being honest, of trying, of doing their best, and sometimes we can understand. What you stated, of course, is always hard to listen to every day some new affair, some accusation that appears, the cover-up of reality that we have, I don't think it's the signal we want. We want to actually one day not be the subject of this... My friend Bulj, here I am, then, sticking to your subject. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Let's stick to the subject, please.]] I just hope that through this replica and me, we can confirm that we're sitting here right now because we're bitter, and we don't have to be here. We would have two parties, HDZ and SDP and we would actually be pleased with their changes. We're not happy. Here, we're doing our best and all the others who are some third option to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63755	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63756	Well, of course it's not pleasant when someone's talking, so that's why we're here and we're in this Parliament case for that. If those political groups had done their job, Miro Bulj would certainly not have been a parliamentary representative and would most likely not have been here. I mean, look what they did. Now they've made the law. They passed a law before us where I was like a man five years ago. 3.4 years when the Regional Development Act was adopted personally collected a petition, he collected over 10,000 signatures for the existing law in force. And I expected this law to solve the problem and try to solve it. This law, however, is just a make-up trail that has been ironed since before the government. And that's not a change. It's not a change. There's a much more important water law here, not protecting water, but protecting private interest. And of course it's important for them to go down to the Perutics, because they're going to book it, and they're going to become private property later on. More importantly. Why? We're just an exploitation field of interest to them. They don't care about water, or the air of that area, or the resources, or the potential of development, or whether they have compounds on the highway, whether they have free textbooks, whether they have options. I mean the development index, I've read them here has six. Well, all six are basically prescribed from these so far, just with some upgrade. They're even a little funnier in some things. So absolutely nothing has changed with this law except a beautiful story in one breath. The minister said it this morning, and it looks nice when she's talking. Indeed fantastic, but simply this law if applied and punished as so far as the poor end, then you have to tear it apart because it's simply enough patience for that people and it's full of hats of these stories and nebuloses. That people have been evicted. Those places are empty. This one, this political one, tells us that we are populists, but that people know that you are populists and deceive people with expensive pier agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63757	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63758	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, in this case, I highly appreciate you here for my five months as Parliament's representative. However, I think every representative body should have people who work so seriously and take both their jobs and why they're here. Of course, the one doing the wrong thing and I don't blame you for anything. This is how you may not know and you are not directed, but your colleague says, "You say it wasn't enough." I don't want to be a lawyer for the previous government. There's a colleague, Bačić, so he'll be responsible for his work for everyone else. I will only speak what I know and the facts that I know. You say it wasn't too much for citizens, it was just for itself. On the other hand, your colleague accuses the former minister of just allowing municipalities where the most needed thing was and puts that into perspective when he was doing what he needed but not enough. They weren't working hard enough either. And I would like everyone to look at the very foundation of both this law and the framework that are passed, to encourage where it is most needed, and not what the people know to say to the fat geese neck. As far as wind power stations are concerned, we've had a number of discussions here. So, according to those facts, the only one who can be angry at the former Vrdoljak minister is just the ones who had the project since it reduced by almost 50% of the planned rental force. So, he didn't support it, but he's the only one down. So, the rest falls into the water. So as far as these things are concerned, but I'm saying these are some facts that you wouldn't. I'm glad you're still fighting for who you think you are, and I agree with you that they are the most needed. That's what I will always represent in my presentations. And all we have to do is create a framework to help, in the right ways, and to help and enable the development of such places. And I come from a place like this, and I think it's crucial both by this law and by our further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63759	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj. I guess, yeah, you didn't call, though, but you probably did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63760	Yeah, I'm a dick right now. We didn't come here to talk about sinlessness or sinlessness. We are here talking about the Law on Regional Development and Expectations of Amendments to this Law. In fact, the new law that's now being proposed here. The disappointment is enormous, because in 2014 when the indexation was passed then the Dalmatian Zagora, here is an example of Vrgorac Sinj I will only take where my colleague Pranic Mayor comes from. It's just that at that moment 40% of Sinju's income was taken from the city. A city was declared developed, and counterpart Šipic knows that one part of the area has no water supply at all. I don't always blame that country. I blame local self-government. So that's where we have to look for the scale. But you can't declare an end developed by purely political motives, the index is doing just as politically as this one is now. I mean, they're funny. I'm not going to read them at all, I read them in Ms. Secretary's replica. It's simply a fact that here is not a question of sinlessness. This House has allowed us to deliver laws like this without any presentation. I mean, we've had it here, so that's the procedure. We don't have any projections here. We don't know what local self-governments are here, who are, who aren't. We don't have three laws that should contain. It is the Law on Islands, the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the Law on assisted areas. We bring this law to the unseen and we will vote on the law to the unseen. But he's so branded, you can't believe the public talk about this new law. I expected a lot more, a lot more. And that people who moved out expected much more. Those ends are empty. As is Slavonia, so is the Dalmatian Zagora, Straight Kotar. I always repeat those places. Because they're forgotten. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63761	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63762	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, in your debate, it is clear that you've been very well instructed and detailed in this law and the debate is indeed, here we are, who we follow here in the afternoons impressed with which you've been paying attention and knowledge to this whole problem. And that's why I'm interested in what you really think, you've had certain remarks that are the principle type that don't invest too much in the even development of the Republic of Croatia. But let's say I'm interested specifically, you see, there are these eight groups. Surely you too have a proposal based on your thinking, an analysis of the projections you would like to include, in order for you to solve this classification, or whether you have any suggestions that our minister might adopt because you have great experience from your activity and life in a less developed part of Croatia. In order to divide these groups, or may you have any suggestions specifically that you might be able to translate into an amendment, so that we can do something to correct what Greece has done both Tolusic and Minister Žalac. I'm sure it's somewhere in you. Now let's see what you can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63763	Now, here's what my colleague Bulj is going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63764	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you have been one of the best ministers since the 1990s indeed one of the undertakers of entrepreneurship in Croatia who has contributed to this situation being the very ends, because indeed this government has brought it. So here I would, for example, immediately change as to the indexation of the eviction index. It's a very important index to track exactly the eviction, but it's not there. There's no mention of that, and that's the most important thing. So if we're going to demographically observe I at least read my law on multiple occasions, buy petitions, talk to people, lobby. Well, while I was away a dozen times, I was in the ministries while you were mostly recording commercials and that information from the wheel commercials you used to pay dearly in the ministry. So it just doesn't make a big difference what you and HDZ did. I know what it would take for my end. Here I live, there I was chosen by the people and elected by the councilman in multiple times and others, and I got plenty of votes for Parliament as well. And so, I know what the triba is, I know how many schools are empty. I know the Triba free textbooks, I know how to do it. That's what I suggested by the amendment, you're not. You hitchhiked it in your government no matter what the amendment was at the time. So there's a lot of these things here. We can also count by the number of students. So the number of students and given the index, so by the number of students we can see how many are enrolled in the first grade, we see that since you were in power 63,000 children less in Croatia. So we have a number of indexes and suggestions, but here it's not a question, now we have three laws that the tribals are needed to even discuss this law, the island law, the mountainous law of areas and assisted areas. Of course, you did not read it, if you had read it and in 2014 you would have warned a colleague of Greeks who had a very correct discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63765	Thank you very much. There is now, there is no colleagues of the Bund, so he loses his right to debate. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63766	Thank you very much, you surprised me, Vice President, there were a few colleagues before me, but here's this after my colleague Bulj elaborated and suggested the student index to be included I have to say that I stayed here for a moment to think about this proposal. So I didn't hear you call me. When we talk about regional development, or what is offered here, and what Minister Žalac has said and segmentation, i.e. an increase in the number of units of local self-government that will provide certain support, there is always a need to look at what this is about because it is not the same as whether or not it is the unit of local self-government, whether it is a small or larger city and the number of 40 itself does not mean too much. What I agree with some discussions, especially here is my colleague Bulj who used to say before me, we need to take more care of the population's movements and it has to be a basic marker or benz mark by which we will measure and watch in essence how and where to invest in the Republic of Croatia because surely people will not leave where it is good where to get a job, where to work. So the average income and income per capita doesn't mean too much sometimes. As a matter of fact, the migration population needs to be looked at. Our regions, our counties have completely relaxed. The Slavonia, which let's say to lose thousands and thousands of people a day and regardless of the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic to certain government sessions and performances with Slavonian mayors, are trying to create the impression that there are no excessive results. People leave every day, and that's what we need to worry about the most. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, they are a presumption of certain incentives for certain tax charges, payments for small tax companies per year, but it is important that we do not see results based on all these laws. 100,000 people left Croatia last year. So we see now these I would say the ridiculous measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing today, it is about increasing the minimum wage which essentially stimulates the employer to report people to minimum wage. So someone who's been paying a few hundred kunas higher pay so far, given the disbursement of 50% of the salary contributions will lower people's wages, and then they'll figure out who knows how that difference that worker made by yesterday paid over pay. So, you shouldn't sometimes, my message is here you shouldn't sometimes suggest things just to create an impression of something being done. Whether the prime minister in Slavonia yesterday or a month ago sits in Slavonia, listens, air-conditioned, visits several workshops or monuments there and then find themselves next time in a few months elsewhere, and people are constantly leaving. And my message would be to the minister and to all of us here, to try more to raise resources in keeping people in these areas, to try to make it possible to buy property cheaper in these areas, free people from paying taxes, give subsidies, and perhaps the state to fully stimulate purchases in Slavonia real estate that are truly underrated, or almost worth nothing. If it is also investing in the company's own incentives more, it is possibly something Croatia could do to stop the eviction. Because people don't leave Croatia just young people, unfortunately, are leaving in the '30s, '40s, and in the '50s, they're setting themselves a goal of 5, 6 years to go out and then at 50 they're working and they're not coming back until they're already retired. Whatever the law we do, I personally don't see any special shift in this when it comes to, and I took a short look at Mr Batinić as he went there to the minister, when it comes to such changes there is always because Mr Batinić and the head of the city of one in the Republic of Croatia, there is always these personal approaches so-called. ... variants of how to push someone into a category. But it's not crucial. I have absolutely no problem with whether some region will get the opportunity to push the city, two more inside or less. It is more of a problem for me that I generally do not see the politics of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I do not see the results at all, i.e. the results see those who say that people are leaving Croatia and will unfortunately go away for months and years to come until the climate changes. One of the reasons that may now be the strongest and most important is the level of receipt. So, it's no longer crucial for people because many who go away go and those who have a job and there the government should make sure that the tax payoffs create the possibility of paying more wages, that people are more competitive, that the minimumer rises not to 42.90% of the average salary than it is to be 50 in two, three years, to be 60% of the average salary and not to think about which man is simply fraternizing that idea now, says we will now seek support from the European Union to see how textile and other industries survive. So if Croatia sees or if we have a strategy that says that we are going to have a very difficult time keeping any primate there then I guess it is thinking about how to help these people eventually reroute, develop new products, see how they will create a new value on something other than supporting something that will be harder and harder to maintain every day and eventually get a new shipbuilding. We're going to beat billions of kunas like we've done in shipbuilding in the last fifteen, twenty years, and we're not going to have anything on that side of the government to see how to create a place for a decent life, for a decent salary that people can live on, and then people will go away less and now whether in some category or group seven, eight will be, ten cities and units more or less, I don't think they're going to show in practice almost no change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63767	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63768	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, if you hadn't named me, I wouldn't have had to replicate at all because you talked about everything but the subject of the agenda. I went to Minister Žalac if you listened carefully to my debate on article 49 of the current law reporting, there are enough deadlines for me not to say too long, meaning reporting from lower levels to the ministry, the county when the ministry submits a report to the government, I suggested to the minister that six months from regional level to the government, or to the Parliament that the Parliament could discuss this in the 9th, 10th month when it began with the autumn session. Because according to this proposal, we would now be discussing the topic of implementing the Regional Development Act after a year and a half than it did in that year. And as far as guessing is concerned, I am absolutely not one of those even though I am the leader of local self-government, you obviously do not have these experiences, and then perhaps you think what you hear in the debate of certain lobbying, when I commended the indexation because I believe that the calculations will be fairer than now because the average of the Republic of Croatia is taken below and above average. And where will my Ivanec be? Whether it's above or below, so I'd like to be 8, not as colleagues from the IDS because they're 6, 7, so they won't get anything. I wish I was the 8th, highest category, if we had everything, the most. And I wouldn't be afraid of it because the funds are open to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63769	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63770	Well, I had no indication at all that you were telling me, colleague Batinic, what you were talking to Minister Zhalac, so I'm not so rude that I'm interested in your conversations right now and you shouldn't have any need here right now... In front of all of us because I just said I wouldn't mind if some city rose up more or less in that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been speaking in general about not seeing any shifts specifically, so that won't do any good because no one leaves a city because let's say that possibly some tax is 5% higher or lower. People leave because the general salary is not high enough and until we resolve it at the level of the entire Croatia there will be nothing of these laws. That's what I was saying, and that was the point, and it's basically the most important thing, so there's got to be a very clear message not only about the details of what the law says, but that people see that these proposals will be nothing until there are generally some things in Croatia that change. But don't feel immediately that someone attacked you regardless of what may have been unfairly sometimes in public for HNS is circulating such stories, that's what it is. Unfortunately, for a long time you'll have to keep an eye on yourself to shake it off, especially with this last one maybe never again, but unfortunately it's not my problem, it's yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63771	The Commissioner for Regional Development and European Union funds, Mrs Gabriela Žalac, will now speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63772	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Here, after a lengthy debate, I am pleased that in the final word I can in some way combine all your questions and all that you have pointed out about these amendments and additions to the law. First of all, I would point out that it would be also in my interest if we had gone to the Croatian Parliament in two readings with a whole package of laws, the Law on Regionals, the Law on Supported Areas, the Law on Islands, the Law on Mountains and Mountains, because they are all more or less integrated and bound. This law is also a roof law for this reason because the working group decided for each individual law that it might be better to extend some deadlines to measure and everything that should be in other laws in the best possible way and for this reason we decided to do so. As for the amendment and addition of the Regional Development Act, it is important that it is also important that I, at the outset, have brought it into the emergency procedure precisely because of the development index. So we didn't think of doing this law. We've spent a whole year actually in an analysis of all indicators, weighting the same indicators that are now going on with these indicators that are in the current development index. In fact, the basis for the amendment of the Regional Development Act is a study on the Index of Development, and I would say that colleagues who have done so are doctors of science and experts who have analysed the indicators in detail, and all of this together have really made the best solution possible at this point. As far as the indicators are concerned, here are the additional indicators, for example, we had one World Bank project in our ministry that referred to maps of poverty. Here we have 48 indicators that have been introduced from various other areas. I don't think those 48 indicators gave a different picture, but these six indicators now. I would also be happy to enter indicators for municipal infrastructure. It's a couple of times highlighted here. However, you must know that unfortunately we do not have in our National Statistics Office indicators that would be a source for us to actually measure. And we realized in some way that perhaps a large strategic project of the Republic of Croatia from the EU funds would be in some way what we should have in the State Statistics Office data like Eurostat. In that context, we actually found the best solution that we could find at this point. When we speak in this part of what you have mentioned several times about how developed counties, i.e. the Istrian County, the Primorje-Gorski County, so the City of Zagreb has a completely different dimension or are developed of course compared to other parts of Croatia. It is not true that they cannot use European funds. They use the funds of European funds very much and apply to the same of course as seen in the results per county, so the City of Zagreb. What applies also to the development index, and when we talk about this support it binds to the intensity of the support and through our co-financing fund that we have in our ministry, everyone gets that support. We just think it's fair that those who are more developed receive less support, and those who are more underdeveloped to receive greater support. And we think that this is exactly the policy of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia to valorise it in such a way. I am aware that with this development index that will be in the government's regulation, not everyone will be satisfied and over 500 units of local self-government cannot be satisfied. It is not the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be satisfied, but rather to make this development index fair and to correct everything we saw in our tables and when we worked together with the Ministry of Finance for a few months on how the Law on the financing of units of local area, how the income tax which we are the only ministry in the Government of the Republic of Croatia that has filled its income tax budget is now back with the new Law on the financing of units of local regional self-government. And so we are the ones who have provided another 300 million kuna in fact in the Regional Development Fund and the assisted areas, and for the mountain-mounted areas, and for all those measures that we consider important. So in this context, surely what is important to say, and this was about this accumulated money, so in our ministry, it's that, in practice, I've pointed out several times, it was about income tax revenues that our ministry accumulated turns out to be like Robin Hudovski's tax, that we've kind of taken meanings to those rich, and we've poured these funds over to poorer ends and through the programme of sustainable development of the local community and through the Regional Development Programme. And here I must say that this government, or our ministry, has invested 267 million kunas in regional development this year. When we compare it to the last four years, it's 206 million kuna. This is all about the efforts we've made this year to make things significantly, significantly better. So that story about how developed parts of Croatia cannot get support simply does not stand, but I think that these parts of Croatia should very much receive support from EU funds, from the national budget. We consider this part of co-financing and pre-financing to be extremely valuable and important that it is in some way the role of our ministry to manage all these processes. When we talk about the score that we have introduced through national common rules for undeveloped parts of Croatia, which is that they have 20% more points in competitions, we think we made a full hit. Because if we hadn't introduced it in some way, all the projects would have been concentrated again in the City of Zagreb, for example, when we talk about scientific infrastructure, etc. It would never be possible for projects from other parts of Croatia particularly undeveloped to compete with those with sufficient financial resources, enough human capacities and all that should be predisposed in some way to obtain funds from the European Union funds. Earlier these projects could not have happened in some other areas, and we consider it an extremely good measure since when we analyze it we are talking about competitions for all the past. I must admit that everyone in this context is pleased. Of course, this does not limit developed parts of Croatia that they cannot get projects. We didn't just see it. But we think that this is the only way we are finally introducing what is called a European Union cohesion policy and regional development, to take care of parts of Croatia in which there has been no concern for many years. As far as this question concerns regional development, or regional development agencies, regional law coordinators, why are they not called county development agencies, we know that we do not have regions. It's irrelevant completely. We believe that exactly the regional policy which is a valid name in our country, and in particular in the European Union is talking about what regional coordinators should do, which are, therefore, indicators that they should satisfy towards us. I'd agree if you'd come back eight years ago, that actually the Regional Development Agency should have its own facilities on the ground. However, since this did not happen in that time and time period, namely the mayors, in certain cases, I mean the founders or co-founders of the county development agencies, have made some decisions precisely that these people are preparing development projects. What we see under this law regional coordinators and why we change them into public institutions is exactly an analysis that shows that we are missing 2700 people on the ground to prepare European projects, given that from the allocation for the Republic of Croatia has increased 10 times compared to the previous period and we are deeply aware of that. We want precisely this way to structure the county development agencies as public institutions, actually provide for this time period from 3 years to a new financial perspective for people to work in all parts of Croatia, team up and in some ways further valorise that in every city and municipality, the county development agency is tasked with organising and preparing development projects. Where there are local agencies logically that they are also in this law. We will finance them in another way, but we see only regional co-ordinators, or 20 units of regional self-government, more precisely county development agencies as regional coordinators who will manage both local agencies and local action groups in their county, which would be quite logical to cooperate and share information with each other, etc. However, we want to see this part in the next financial perspective as part of a decentralised fund management system. This has proved to be good in all Member States, we are not a big country, but we have certainly specificities and differences, and we must particularly take care of what is happening on the ground and respect therefore, the projects and priorities that come from the field. Also, what is often promoted is that there are not enough prepared projects at regional local level, I am responsible for saying that this is not because everything we have now analysed in the past year and applying to EU funds came primarily from regional and local levels. People are valuable and diligent in these development agencies, of course, and others mean entrepreneurship and... institutions etc. do their job and report projects in three times the amount practically than the resources available. This says that we should team up slowly and in some ways take care of those resources that we have that we need to strengthen them. In addition, this is also the European Commission's audit report on our national level, we are the Government who has made a decision on the employment of bodies in the management and control system, and according to the analysis of the workload of all the resistors in the context of exactly withdrawing funds, so we think that there is just a big space for work. What we have now had in this law, that the law offers you the possibility of whether you will be d.o.o., whether you will be a public institution, whether you will be a administrative body in a regional or local self-government unit, because through a sublegal law of the Regional Development Act, we want to do it all right, and especially because we can then bring these public institutions down from technical assistance and to strengthen capacities both for education and project preparation. We have already in this year just through regional coordinators that they must, of course, take care of all units of local self-government in their area, given 120 million kuna for the preparation of new projects that will be registered to the following competitions that will be announced by 2020 and prepared a supply of projects that should be prepared for the next financial perspective. When we talk about indicators in the development index, we could talk a lot and have a big debate. We are with representatives of the authors of our study which, therefore, was held in Sibenik on the days of regional development and the European Union funds presented to everyone, the general public, and put it on our website so that everyone can watch and read what we did this year. We think it's much fairer that this division into 8 new units of local self-government that belong to a developed, undeveloped area tells us that we have a much simpler graduation, meaning 25% between each individual unit of local self-government. Quantile approach, and we don't think it can be compared to this now development index. Someone who was now in the first group, for example, if he is now in the 4th and 5th, that doesn't mean that it's the same in the old index because the indicators are such that we don't share the particular importance of an individual indicator in the development index. This means that you can practically adjust in such a way if you, for example, do so. The number of inhabitants is something that has a larger share in the development index, talking about that maybe income per capita is in a smaller part, and then you can practically adjust where it's developed, where it's undeveloped. This index certainly follows that it can certainly be completed over the next three years and we will really think about how for the next financial perspective. In the same way as European funds, it is all expensive to valorise it. But it is certainly just and gives indications for each unit of local and regional self-government exactly as it is based on indicators for the past three years 2016, 2015 and 2014. When we talk about the population logically that we have here indicators that in 2001, we had the last census. So the question here is, should we do the population list more often when we're talking about individual indicators? As regards statistical regions and regional support maps. I'd have had a lot to tell you. For example, 30. Eight. In 2012, the decision was made overnight that we were suddenly divided into two regions, without any consultation by decision of the State Statistics Office. What happened to that decision? This decision is the map of the regional support of the Republic of Croatia, which concerns our entrepreneurs who work and, of course, the full state budget and local budgets, the following situation occurred, that in the continental part of Croatia because the City of Zagreb and the other six counties belonged to Pannonian Croatia and it became continental Croatia's GDP per capita increased from 39% to 64% overnight and practically continental Croatia in this context more developed than the Adriatic Croatia. How does this reflect the map of regional support? So that our entrepreneurs instead of being able to get much more support from EU funds can currently get from 35% to 45%. It is something to change, it is something we are now working on in analytical bases and it is something that I will surely insist as Minister of Regional Development that in the next financial perspective we have a completely different NUC2 division of the Republic of Croatia because we believe that this classification carries a great deal in the finality and through the allocations from EU funds but of course also from the state budget. I think that this part that applies to other indicators will certainly be taken into account in the debate that in the next period we will account for everything. And the question has also been raised about the use of funds, Mr. Kirin has asked a question relating to absorption, and I have to say that here are 3.2 billion euros of 10.7 billion everything says that this is 31% of the funds allocated to us. When the projects are completed, it is only when they are verified by the European Commission that is the worse indicator that I am talking about all the time. Why is that? Because only last year we practically started using this financial perspective. We are working really hard on this, and as far as our results as the Government and us as a resolute EU fund ministry are concerned, I must say that the growth of 400% in the negotiation of the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, which is the largest investment operational programme of the EU funds in this period, is all about our efforts. 232% of the growth in contracts at all EU funds level compared to the last three years also. So it is up to us that we now arrive at the three years missed in using our 10.7 billion euros and there we need all available capacities both at the national level and at regional and local level. When we talk about the certification or payment of users, we also record this increase over the same period compared to the previous three years, which is 173%, once again precedes the operational programme where our ministry is the managing body, where payments have increased by 356% compared to the last three years. When I talk about that certification, it is ultimately when the projects are completed, when all the eligible costs are evaluated, I must say that then the verification of expenditure with the European Commission or the sending of payment requests to 31.10 this year from all European funds has been certified by 383m euros, it is only 3.6% of the allocations. Meanwhile, an additional 206.7m euros from the operational programme and 22.4m euros from the rural development programme were confirmed during November. This resulted in an increase of 612m euros and 5.7% of the allocations. By the end of the year, we are now planning to send two more payment requests at 12 months for around 200m euros for our operational programme and another payment request for an operational programme of effective human potential. This is all about the government's efforts, given that the value of the certified funds at the end of last year was 207m euros, an increase of more than 290% is expected in 2017. These are the data with which we will certainly be released in early 2018 when closed all this year. This job is not easy, there is a lot of work ahead of all of us and we are ready for these challenges to really make all the money from European funds available to end-users as soon as possible. As for the part where we talk about new tools in the laws and measures that we have written right through the laws that will follow in the next quarter of the Croatian Parliament and in the Government it is the Law on Supported Areas, we are deeply aware of these very problems that are happening in undeveloped parts of Croatia and we want to do everything we need to do with concrete measures. I must point out that regional competitiveness programmes and support programmes have never been adopted in this law. We do not want to pass this law and that the programmes that we have drawn that are much more important to me in the implementation sense, I have now highlighted two, a programme for the sustainable development of the local community. Ask local self-government units what they think about it in this year of these 267 million kunas that we have allocated to undeveloped parts of Croatia and everything we have done through the Co-financing Fund. I think that everyone in this context is satisfied and it is up to us that through these programmes that we will surely bring into force after the law comes into force and responds to all those problems that we currently have. For example, you mentioned the islands as well. We're preparing a new island law. When we talk about this development index, we will bring an island index into the Island Act because if one unit of local self-government belongs to a particular unit of local self-government and practically on that island you have nothing to measure in these indicators we believe that this should be done precisely diversified by the developmental features of all parts of Croatia because it is not the same to talk about islands, it is not the same to talk about Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora, the City of Zagreb, etc. These are things that we must be very concerned about. Mr. Hrg presented this study of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which also has its specific indicators. We have also taken into account this in making this all that we have actually systematically approached, when we talk about these reporting deadlines that you Mr Batinic have been saying a great lack of reporting on the implementation of the county development strategies and documents to be delivered to the ministry were in some way a problem because the capital investments that occur in the area of each county could never get access to information on how much investment, for example, the state and public enterprises in that area. And it is important to introduce these measures that are certainly mentioned in the county development strategies. So this process takes too long and it takes too long to collect information that I, of course, should have been much more transparent. But I think this other law will solve that reporting. As for this part that we now have for the task of working, which is to report on the implementation of the county development strategies, reporting in fact on the implementation of urban development strategies there are deadlines in the hodogram as we believe we can do everything we can to make sure that the more quality data is presented here to you by the Assembly representatives on the effects of all that we have drawn out in the Strategy for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. Here we brought to the Croatian Parliament this summer you adopted the Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. Assembling opinions on the Action Plan, the implementation of measures that should be related to operational programmes and other documents takes a lot longer than 3 months, because it all requires a lot of effort and actually harmonizing with everything that is available to us in terms of funding. I think we have just responded to these changes and additions to everything we want, and that is certain that we want to strengthen the regional level and the staff, and the financial resources from the European Union funds to get prepared in that financial perspective that is ahead of us no matter how it looks. And we now have announcements, and a great debate at European Union level on cohesion policy, on the multi-annual financial framework, on what it will look like, whether it will be just financial instruments, credit funds, whether we will have a European Union of two speeds, those who have developed to have their own framework, and those who are underdeveloped and who have later joined membership have a second framework, I think that this will be strongly reflected on what we want to do in the coming period. Here, I'd like to finish here and thank you very much for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63773	Thank you. Your exposure caused several replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63774	Thank you very much. Mrs. Grief, here's a quick question. From this final presentation of the first thesis that developed parts of Croatia do not also need strong support for their projects I think it is not good because especially when it comes to entrepreneurs, the vast majority of projects come from where successful companies already exist and they should be developed, they should be paid into the budget, and with this money the government should develop and create conditions throughout Croatia to develop these parts of Croatia. Because it is not possible to have successful projects unless, for example, there are no people qualified in the workforce, etc. What concerned me, and you said that you intend to employ 2,700 people throughout the process of European funds, or withdrawing European funds, at regional level. This is a really impressive figure, especially when we consider that this will likely be resolved through the counties or development agencies. I know it's in the interest of local authorities, mayors, but I'm not sure that's exactly the most effective way to do it since let's say for sure the mayors in Slavonia where you come from the five who are from HDZ are already thinking about how they're going to hire 400,500 people. But that does not mean that it will be the most effective way of withdrawing funds from the European Union. So I ask you once again to consider whether it is precisely an interest to increase the number of employees in the public sector by county where HDZ is in power or interest to create the most efficient system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63775	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63776	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in your final address, you have just highlighted the problem of statistics. We face that problem all the time. This is actually in your bill of law makes one essential substance and dealing with those data that may be correct but do not show a real state, nor can they sublime life in any area. It is shown as a wrong method, and we are constantly doing wrong data about showing the situation we have laws that can't even be applied in their entirety. I think that, here on the parliamentary committee I was representing the view that regardless of already being regional co-ordinators on the field of county as such, local self-government that a part that would be isolated from pure statistics could show a real state to leave one 10% to set within a single county the priorities of one who would be or as in reality there feels a need for development. That might balance the lack of actual statistics. And the second thing I would still refer to is about your comment that when a public call is published, worthy applicants usually get three times. It's actually one very tricky statement because at the end of the day when we look at the withdrawal of 9% was now official data, then it really turns out that the responsibility is too high for ministries that aren't up-to-date, fast enough to come out with public calls. Otherwise the applicants are ready, the paperwork is ready. However, a very long wait has led to a number of problems where once the construction permits have expired, which now presents a real problem for three years. I think it really has to be determined where these key problems are, where they're stalling and running these competitions. Maybe sometimes it's not perfect, but you should go. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63777	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63778	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Minister, I think it's a good thing you said what you said in your closing speech. Why? Because I got the impression, maybe I'm wrong that after six hours of debate, we didn't simply realize what the function of this law was. So this law is to reduce this great diversity in the development of the Republic of Croatia, to allow those who are weaker to simply develop. The second thing, what's evident from the debate, people didn't realize the importance of the State Statistics Institute. In this law, we can only use indicators that are prescribed by EUROSTAT anything other than that. And therefore, the State Statistics Office is crucial here. The third thing that doesn't want to be understood is you and HDZ respect that we want to love people, which is the administrative capacity to build a programme. Without it, there's nothing. And unfortunately, today, instead of discussing a political party to throw away somewhere I'm not going to tell you where in a bucket some sort of a bucket and how to get us to set up a system to withdraw as much funds as possible, we convince each other of what. Those who are rich, who are developed, have 1001 opportunities both they and their entrepreneurs to withdraw funds from a number of other funds. And nobody's punishing anyone with this. This is a fund, in fact, this law is something that substitutes the former Law on areas of special state care, the former Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the former Law on Islands. Such assistance as it was under these laws under the European Union directives is considered illegal aid. And that's what needs to be said clearly here. So it's good that you said some things in your closing statement, and you just saw today how many ignorances and misunderstandings there are. And that is why these agencies or what we will call them administrative capacities are invaluable if we want well-developed areas of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63779	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63780	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 241, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 14 abstentions, 26 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63781	And now we're going to move on to another point only today. We're nice today. It's almost five o'clock. We're only on the second wheel. - Final proposal of the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 189. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mrs. Garijela Žalac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63782	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the second law, the second theme of today's session. Therefore, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia. The final proposal of the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia is proposed with the aim of increasing the effectiveness and effectiveness of public governance in line with the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020, and the National Reform Programme for 2017. The current system of strategic planning and development management in the Republic of Croatia is marked by a number of problems, and a number of the development challenges Croatia faces are high unemployment rates, negative demographic trends, low economic growth rates, and other consequences are non-planned development management. With the aim of removing identified problems, our ministry has launched a process of developing a comprehensive regulatory framework for strategic planning and development management. At the fifth session held on 4 October 2017, the Croatian Parliament discussed in its first reading the Proposal for a Law on a System of Strategic Planning and Development Management, which it accepted the conclusion. The draft law on the strategic planning and development management system of the Republic of Croatia was discussed by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. Those committees supported the adoption of this law. Comments and proposals have been made regarding the interpretation of certain provisions and the need to supplement them in a legal and nomotechnical sense adopted by the legislators, and have joined the preparation of the final draft law, since it is precisely the law that intends to regulate a systematic and comprehensive approach in the management of public policies and the development of the Republic of Croatia. The draft law is addressed to the meeting of the Economic and Social Council, which supported the adoption of the law. The Committee for Sustainable Development, the promotion of the economy, energy and climate change of the Economic Social Council has made proposals in line with which the draft bill has been amended and amended. The final draft law on the system of strategic planning and development management has been developed taking into account the shortcomings of the existing system, and examples of good practice by other countries. The content of the final bill is also the result of systematic and continuous cooperation between the designers and the broad circle of stakeholders, I must say through an inter-resorial working group covering representatives of all resolution ministries as well as other relevant actors from the national, regional and local level of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of regional coordinators, associations of cities, associations of municipalities and the Croatian Community of Countys. In addition, four sub-thematic groups have been established to reach consensus on specific issues, a thematic sub-group to coordinate strategic planning with national budget planning and the European Semester cycle, a thematic group to connect strategic and budgetary planning between local, regional and national levels, a thematic sub-group to connect strategic and spatial planning and a thematic sub-group to develop an institutional framework proposal. In this regard, four meetings were held with all members of the large inter-resor working group and over 10 meetings with members of thematic sub-groups. What I would concentrate on today, given that the final draft of the bill is before you. These are the results which will come from the Law on the Planning and Management System of the Development of the Republic of Croatia. The final draft law sets up an integrated development planning system covering strategic planning and implementation of programmes, activities and projects, creating a basis for effective, efficient, responsible and sustainable management of the development of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the following newspaper is introduced in this law. The development of the National Development Strategy as a roofed long-term strategic planning act aimed at the development of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed. I must tell you until the law has yet to come into force we have already held meetings with over 400 participants who were actually at this visionization of what should be done in the next period after 2020. The number of strategic documents shall be limited, taking into account their consistency, standardisation of production and monitoring of impacts, and linking them to the budget. A direct link is established between the acts of strategic budget planning and other resources for the implementation of the strategic objectives. The precise principles for the production, implementation, monitoring of implementation, reporting and evaluation of the effects of strategic planning acts are defined, the introduction of tools for measuring performance in implementation is prescribed, the central coordination of strategic planning is introduced and ties are established with the county and local level which have not yet existed or were very weak. A clear division of competences between the bodies involved in the strategic planning processes and supporting the strengthening of human capacities for the management of processes in the system of strategic planning in public authorities and ultimately and most importantly establishing a single information system for strategic planning and development management and a central electronic register of development projects with a view to effective monitoring of the implementation and impact of strategic planning actions and the preparation of projects at national, county and local level. We believe that this law for the first time brings the paper, which is that after 26 years of its independence and sovereignty, the Republic of Croatia has never had a long-term vision and strategy for overall development. You must know that there are currently over a thousand 700 local strategies and regional ones, over 200 so the strategies that have been adopted at national level, and we believe that this way of adopting exactly strategic documents cannot be managed in any way, and we often do not know what we need to do then or from measures to finance how from the national and especially from the European budget. The system of strategic planning as described in this law will become a safe tool for making political decisions based on concrete indicators and impact and will allow us to target resources in a coordinated manner towards the most important objectives and measures that will result in a positive economic impact on growth, employment and development for the welfare and future better and stronger Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63783	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected representative of Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63784	Here, dear minister, I'll try to be as short as on the previous point. In fact, my impression is that you as a minister are working very hard to invest a lot of energy. However, the problem that exists is not from today but since yesterday and has been going on for too long. I am therefore interested in whether you see the perspective and hope in which cooperation between resolution ministries can be improved, between state and public enterprises and certainly all in order to coordinate and prepare the necessary documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63785	They will respond to the honourable Mrs. Minister Zhaoac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63786	Thank you very much for this question. Dear Representative, our ministry is in fact a co-ordination body for EU funds in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means that we are practically a roofing ministry that takes care of exactly the coordination among the resolutions. What we have drawn in this government's mandate in Chapter 8 relating to the even development of all parts of Croatia is exactly what you're talking about, and that means the establishment of all the information that we have in one place in mind and the preparation of project documentation, studies, all that is needed to use the funds of European funds from the ministry, state public enterprises, regional and local levels, so all those who actually use public funds. That job isn't easy. It is a job that we all know is needed, that we need it for a long time because only on the basis of information that gives an actual picture of what we have prepared from the project documentation in each individual portfolio, in each state and public enterprises and, of course, at local and regional level, it is not even bad to have information about what investment investments and entrepreneurs are in a given area. Of course, we can't commit them in this context, but everything about spending public money we think should be just one place collected by this law and that in this way we can well program everything that comes to us in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63787	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first will be the club of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63788	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues! The final draft law on the system of strategic planning and management of the development of the Republic of Croatia is before us. It is a law that is relatively clear, short and as such the club of GLAS and HSU will support it. But allow me a few words. I studied in another time and another system, and I also began to work on spatial planning at that time when it was about spatial planning documents, they weren't called that, they were called spatial plans. Each of the spatial plans of the Republic of Croatia, which was part of another state, had 101 municipalities, and the city of Zagreb had a plus 14, so it had 115 and 102 spatial plans. Each spatial plan also had implementing measures called short, medium- and long-term and also had financial effects and, within a year, over five years or over ten years for the implementation of these spatial plans. This document and this way is on the trail. And that's why I initially said it was a simple law that we're going to support, but then we get to but. Let's see how it works in real life in Croatia. We are absolutely masters in making as many laws as possible, making as many regulations as possible, making as many regulations as possible and not knowing what we have brought and what less of them we apply and use to complicate them. People say that countries that want to move forward have relatively few laws and have relatively few implementing documents in us are not such a case. So when you look at this law a little bit and you look at it when they're talking about the system, then you have certain principles. Similarly, in the last 40, 50 years in the European Union, two principles have been applied. One principle was the integrated approach that there was one roof document and below that there were sub-documents, and another principle was the principle of sectoral approach. Well, in Croatia, we have both principles. Each sector works for itself, and then we're in harmony with each other or we're not in harmony. I know it's already afternoon, that we're already late, that we're all already tired, otherwise my voice came back to me this afternoon, so I can speak, but I really need those who listen and who will listen to talk about things not because I want to say I'll be against but just to warn about the facts that we have and the facts that might need to change. For example, when we talk about the ports of nautical tourism we call them all marinas, they are defined differently in the Law on Spatial Planning, they are defined differently in the Law on Maritime Home, they are defined differently in the laws on marinas. And if someone doesn't want to do it, they absolutely have an option not to. I warn, for example, of a provision in this article, which says Article 31 that spatial plans and these plans must be agreed between each other and these, and the strategies that are created here because it is actually the basis for these strategies to be an element and the way in which spatial plans are implemented. By knowing that several times there will be a strategic environmental impact assessment. So I would perhaps also warn of another fact that seems to me extremely important, not only in the spatial planning system, you will have a spatial plan, the assumption is that strategies will agree with this, because it simply won't be possible to implement, it won't be possible to get permission if they don't agree with each other. However, there sometime in the spring of 2013, in the summer, I was in this House and I was very proud and very pleased because the Parliament passed a law called the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data. There's a directive called ina... a directive that says that all data, every country must have it in one place, that it must collect it and that... a point or a key place for that data is the State Geodetic Authority. And at that point, it seemed to me that it was a great solution to solve a lot of things. Because what's your spatial data? The spatial data is that the hurricanes the state leased annually were so much and so much. The spatial data is that so many children are enrolled in an island school. And it seemed to me like it was the perfect place and we'd have spatial data in one place, so we'd keep picking them up with them. I looked at the laptop here a little today as much as this spatial data has actually been collected, so there's been a relatively little collection, although... the directive we've signed, the National Infrastructure Data Act we've brought in, we know what our central location is. Let's say I saw that it was connected to the water supply system about the way the water was used in one of the municipalities that was the last data that it was. And now, with this law that we have, because we have brought into line with the European Union directives, we will again pass another law, and in this law we have again an information system for strategic planning and development management. So let's ask ourselves how many systems we have, let's wonder if they're mutually consistent and let's wonder if they're correspondence with each other? Compared to spatial indicators and relative to spatial data I know of three systems, I know about the NIP, the national infrastructure of spatial data managed by the State Geodetic Administration and which for all repositories, for all municipalities, for all cities, for communal businesses to be those who manage any central place where they should give their information that is.... The data and it's happening to them and they're really very modest there from 2013 to today. Then we have another system that is your system which is at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning which is related to spatial plans where all spatial plans are recorded defined all aspects of the protection of cultural and all other heritage. And now we're going to have a third system. If someone is a master in that we have several systems that systems are not compatible with each other then obviously we are systems. I really want to think about this law. I really want to think about it because we all want it to be better in the country together. I have to say from this pay phone somehow express my concern and my desire that we have again passed a law that sounds good. You know, it's like a camel to you, it won't cure you, but it won't hurt you, so good, it's good and it's warm and it's cold, so we'll drink it. For the simple reason we must finally decide what we want and what we want, the way we want to manage, the way we want to define things because what is important, it is important that we have a series of rules that are laid down at European Union level but can always be adapted to local legislation somehow. I always want to define that by one example. You want to make one road and you want to withdraw certain funds from the European Union funds for that road, and I will not talk about it, I will not enter the territory of the municipality and of the city. However, it is not in any amount of space. Then you must make a change and supplement the spatial plan. To amend and supplement the spatial plan, you need to conduct a public debate, you need to carry out a strategic environmental impact assessment and when defining the correct route and environmental impact assessment for that route. One such as strategic planning and the other if we want it to be some kind of short-term, medium-term, or long-term document and something important will also have to be declared and once again do the same or similar strategic environmental impact assessment. What exactly am I trying to say? I want to say that we don't do a lot of sector planning, sector planning every sector is itself. I believe, and there is no reason not to trust the minister who first said it and at one point answered me, we will be the ones who will be at the top of that pyramid and who will unite individual sectors. I am particularly emphasising sectors in the area of spatial planning. Does this mean that, in due course, in the Law on Spatial Planning, we will have an amendment where the consent of the Ministry of Regional Development will be introduced because we have introduced the consent of the Ministry of Property, because what we have had the opportunity to see happening in spatial planning for years next. In the case of state property, then there was always a green area to plan the area for construction on private property and one of the reasons why the competent central authority or the Ministry of Property Management was involved in the process of its opinion, for the simple reason to protect the state property because no one protected the state property. Therefore, the states have different ways and have different ways. One way they have countries so-called. The capitalisms which were therefore in another system and the other way have Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland because you need to know that they even had spatial planning in the way that we did not know. They've only started in recent years with both sectoral and spatial planning. Therefore, I could be even better served by the voice but it is already good, to hold a much wider debate on what sector planning means and how we want to implement it, in which sense the Ministry of Regional Development should participate. This law has no reason to argue with him and there is no reason for this law not to go any further. I'm just warning the minister, she may be very pleased after he votes, but she must enter the real life of Croatia. In real life, Croatia should take care of the consistency of all the resistors because you know this happens as railways. You can't change the track, so then you have a few tracks that go parallel and each one goes their own track and eventually they meet sometimes but not in a way that they become one track but in a way that they go over each other. So I am particularly emphasising this topic on the information system for the simple reason that this would allow us to conclude that we are introducing a new information system instead of connecting and already having what we have. I was really happy there in 2013... With the directive and this national infrastructure of spatial data and for the simple reason I thought we'd finally be able to see everything from one place to another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe just for the end. We're in spatial planning not one of the following cases. We worked out the county's spatial plans because it was legislative, so we set that pyramid up and I'm in two or three cases, I'm not going to say now which county saw that the spatial plan of one county predicted the road to its border and it ended there and then when you came to the space plan of another county that same road continued here. So, we've had a lot of cases like this. But that's never a problem for you when you have a case like that on paper. It's a bit of a bigger problem for you when you have it and in nature and believe it or not, and in nature we didn't really have a big car road or road, but it was a road that ended, but it ended up at the border of the neighbouring municipality and the neighboring municipality was doing its job and ended it ten meters away and they couldn't possibly connect. What's my final point? Don't let this law stay like a camel so we have it and we don't need it, whether it's hot or cold, it won't help us much, it won't help us. The result of this should be that then finally define who is there, who is in a certain way uniting all the problems that is and in relation to the systems let's see what we have and start using what we have and there's no problem and that the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data in that part and change so that someone else is a central point but this is how we collect data in a series of places, and we collect them from the beginning and we don't actually manage them in the way that we should do it and this is all really for the purpose of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia and I will repeat it this time and I have repeated it many times. Sustainable development means that, in all parts of Croatia, people have the same conditions for life, for housing and for work and let's not, and that after the many laws we will pass and about some more or less we argue, it does not just remain a good desire on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63789	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I know it's late, but it's just that when someone mentions information systems, I can't not answer it, that's how it is. Yeah, we're really Croats kind of geniuses for making and implementing as many different information systems as possible that collect the same data. Unfortunately, today in Croatia you have God ask how many different databases and information systems that collect the same data that are in the OIB system and do extra jobs, and people do extra jobs, and citizens give extra data and simply no one manages to prevent it. The worst thing about it is you spend a lot of money and resources on the same job. It is like watching the roads from Split to Zagreb we work three, four highways parallel to each other just to find it. And what I often say in this House, only one thing can solve it all, it's called digitization or information. This is the path in which this state and public administration should go, we need to radically digitise all processes in the state and the public exactly and only in this way can we prevent excess data collection, excess work by our employees and excess spending of money. The assumption of this exists in the National Information Infrastructure Act only that law should finally be implemented properly. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63791	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63792	Thank you very much. My colleague, I know that every time he mentions any information, I'm very happy to mention it, you can't not react, and it's because no matter what the hour is, and no matter how many people who have to stay or such an agreement is within the club, or because they're interested, I think it's extremely important that we know. We have at least one four, five excellent regulations, but these are regulations that are a dead letter on paper and that eventually one of us knows about them and pulls out when it comes to it. And this regulation that you and I mention about the national infrastructure of spatial data is an excellent regulation, we have to pass it because we have accepted... The directive also orders Member States to adopt it, it is excellent, it is relatively short, it also has this law of its 30s, 40 articles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now that this law is passed, something needs to be done, you should sit down with the bodies that are responsible for spatial planning because it will happen that the data will actually be collected in the same place and when you call it now I'll say the municipal enterprise one municipality that I don't quote, again not to use the town of Vodice or Ivanec because there are colleagues you'll call the municipal enterprise there and say, first you'll call one and tell me how many people you've buried in the last year so they'll give you the information, so a little bit behind that will call someone else. When he calls the third these guys are gonna say these guys over there are crazy, they have no idea what they're doing. That's why this law needs to be used in a way that we know what we're doing. It also states in the explanation that all opinions and all consents have been obtained. The colleagues working at the State Geodetic Authority know that they are the central point for collecting spatial data. It's just my request, this law is a decent law, but if you're going to enforce it then you should also take care of all other regulations that are in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63793	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the next Club of Representatives, which is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63794	Thank you, Vice President. Assistants, ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! This law is certainly good for me based on both experience and experience, and I believe that all of us should have been in force years ago, and today we would have believed far more high-quality documents primarily as far as local and regional levels are concerned. I won't be long, because I could read more or less what it says here, but I might warn and give one sighting regarding primarily the basic principles of strategic planning. I believe that this approach and this law is necessary because it has not been uniform practice so far and is not yet unfortunately at the level of both local and regional communities. The first principle of accuracy I believe more or less that we all have certain experiences with planning and the basic starting point of planning, which is the SWOT analysis. I have witnessed many plans of certain municipalities, cities, and I have had the opportunity to read and most of all they have haired some data in order to ultimately make this strategic document, before they were plans, a plan of overall development of PUR, or what it was like to look more beautiful, and they usually offered us any agencies for some 20,000 kunas, 25 thousand kunas or order of that, and finally when you went to implement it, you saw that it was a dead letter on paper, thrown money. The principle of effectiveness means very clearly, precisely defined and the objectives themselves, responsible planning, means that as far as the principle of accountability is concerned, all the elements that are later defined in the articles must be achieved. And what is crucial to me is the principle of sustainability because a series of programmes, projects from local and regional levels, unfortunately, I would define them as not political, not politics, but political objectives that have a negative context in this part with the aim of whether or not obtaining voters at the end of the mass of such projects that have been projected in such a way in strategies have never been realised or will be. Sadly, such situations are still being witnessed today. Furthermore, partnership, transparency is more than necessary, not to respect the principle of transparency in order to respect certain standards based on the law than more stakeholders who will later participate in the implementation itself, co-creation and this document will certainly be more quality. As for the principle of sustainability and today we have in strategic documents of individual environments, it sounds nice in one small municipality of schools for 250 students, sports hall or I don't know any other object, culture center for 1500 inhabitants, for... However, it is simply forgotten that, given both the income and the needs of this facility will be devastated for non-use over the next ten years. This law calls for responsibility and that we no longer testify to any such programmes that would be contained in strategic documents. Furthermore, this law is a continuation and it is impossible to partially touch the previous Regional Development Act, as regards local coordinators and regional co-ordinators, their roles are certainly necessary for someone to valorise, assess, to correct the local self-government development document whether the city is a municipality. What I would certainly like to mention is what I think is particularly important in this part of the law and in the implementation of this part of the law is an important responsibility, but I am afraid to what extent these plans at all levels will be able to bring on all units of local and regional self-government according to these principles defined here. I again believe that the role, although it says so, will be a great responsibility, but also a great task, a large amount of work and a resolute ministry, because the implementation of this law in some way gives a framework for the implementation of the general regional development policy of the Republic of Croatia, a way that this law can be done in part as regards the planning itself. I'm not sure if there will be any practice of valorising certain strategic documents, whether they will be able to comply with all these principles. Whether that political background will not be stronger so let's say that kind of authority will only be touched, but not eliminate certain projects that are neither contained in national or in any sectoral, traffic or any other strategy. I wish you had a tighter approach here and just don't let some of this go by. Let's just say some unbulful things. When I was discussing the Regional Development Act, I mentioned it, and I will also mention regional coordinators, local regulations, what their role is, which is the task, but I would like to suggest something or maybe write it, but I haven't been able to read it, I apologize. In fact, you are aware that there are a number of local self-government particularly smaller communities from municipalities primarily with one, two, three employees who do not have administrative capacity that can in any way be even stakeholders of making such a document, and it is extremely important. There is also a possibility that through the Regional Development Act and through the production of these documents, it can be integrated in some way, that local coordinators are practically or that they should be attached to a larger unit. But that would absolutely suggest whether you would do it through regional coordinators simply to impose yourself in the interests of those citizens living in those environments, to provide them with the future, perspective and staying exactly to try to impose in some way and who and how will develop the strategy, let's say the local development strategy. Furthermore, when it comes to medium-term, long-term, short-term plans, it is understandable that programmes are adopted locally during the term of office. The medium-term development strategy, I would have done this on the basis of experience, is more or less absurd for certain counties to now adopt the Development Strategy in 2014-2020, which should have been done in 2013 or, at the latest, in the first half of 2014, binding, the logic is to bind to the EU's financial perspective. It would also suggest that, in practice, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it is practically up-to-date and that, practically, for the financial perspective of 2020-2027 at the level of the Republic of Croatia, even if not larger cities or local strategies, regional county strategies are consistent and co-ordinate with that year, all with the aim of better valorisation and quality projects and with greater absorption of opportunities for European money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63795	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which Branka Juričev-Martinchev, the respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63796	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. This final proposal of the Law on a system of strategic planning and development management of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. Already in the first reading, a lot has been said and then the law was adopted with as many as 109 votes for, so I believe there will be no problem with adopting this final proposal, given that the applicants of all the objections they had in the first reading were either made on boards, council committees or here in the assembly were accepted, especially those relating to the erasure of the exemption provisions from the application of the law to the acts of strategic planning in the area of defence and national security, which is one of the major changes in relation to first reading and that the provision concerning regional co-ordinator was deleted. We saw that in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act we had elaborated on all obligations and regional coordinators, and then it was necessary to delete from this law. For the first time in this law, we will have a well-developed, we have worked out how to prepare, develop, implement reports, monitor the implementation of the effects, who is responsible for and who is responsible for the adoption and implementation of development strategies. This law will finally need to be negotiated on the desired changes. We have seen that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Regional Development Act also provides for development agreements, which means that more counties, more units of regional, regional self-government will need and be able to agree and set out their priorities, i.e. to see a common vision of the future. We all have to act in the same direction together. So far, different institutions have different interests, that neighbouring units of local self-government are especially if different and political options cannot be agreed on common interests, and then we have cases that in every municipality and in one where we do not have kindergartens, but it would be good if we had sports halls and three-part sports halls. Well, then every city would be very happy to have a center of some higher education, some institution, so then we're not just happy with colleges, we're happy with the university and stuff. I think it's this law that makes us sit at the table together and see what our priorities are and this time we'll have to know how to say and not invest resources in non-strategic activities. Furthermore, when we talk about this law, we should say that so far, strategic planning and development management in the Republic of Croatia have been mentioned in the Law on Regional Development and the Budget Law. Now for the first time, we have an integrated full and standardised legal set of rules that we can no longer adopt the Styria strategy, have unequal approaches. In particular, it is important to monitor the results and effects achieved. In this Croatian Parliament, for example, the Tourism Development Strategy was adopted by 2020. In two years neither until the end of the government in 2015, no department was formed, no meetings were called or meetings of the Inter-minister Council. A number of non-compliances were sectoral strategies, especially with plans and programmes. It has often been known that the Municipal Council brings forward a strategy for the development of its municipality for the next period in which it is primarily seeking to invest in the construction of a nursing home, kindergartens, and then we do not have a stamp in the same plan that brings the same Council for the construction of such a facility. Furthermore, when it comes to budgets and there are a number of cases where the budget is not only for the year for which the budget is to be adopted, those development projections for the next two years do not provide for funding for a specific project which is priority in their same Development Strategy. Also, when we talk about budgets, it should be said that in the next two years when we are making projections, it is a set of good wishes and good wishes, and, of course, not all of them are provided with the means, and it is very questionable whether the same project will be able to provide funding for either European funds or from the state budget. It is now this Law that provides for both horizontal and vertical integration of the objectives and the possibility of quality measurement of their impact and impact on the overall development of the unit of local and regional self-government and thus the Republic of Croatia. The law is based on examples of good practice and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63797	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63798	Dear colleague Martinchev, I fully agree with you. We have a number of strategies today that have been adopted in our country. However, they do not apply adequately. You mentioned the Tourism Strategy yourself. I would like to mention here a national security strategy that has also been recently adopted, and we have the latest examples that tell us that they are not being applied by its essentials. And I would like this to be one strategy that will be, to make one step, that all that is implemented in it, and it is good, that it will be quite implemented, or implemented. What I'd like to say here, we've got a lot of projects. It's good to have them somewhere in one place to know that strategic plans can be made. And what is also very important sometimes is that local self-government units are not objective in their strategic planning, so it's good to have someone from a national level who sees it more objectively with a higher level and to focus and develop units of local self-government. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63799	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63800	Thank you, colleague Zekanovic. So this law foresees the creation of a national development strategy for a period of ten years, and then all these sectoral strategies must be in line with that national and, of course, this law provides for what is the most important control of the executioner and the strategy that will be required to report and this Parliament is the one who has also adopted that national strategy in order to know exactly which segment of society is who scheduled. Charger
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63801	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. After that, the Club of Representatives of the SDP is on behalf of which a respected representative, Damir Mateljan, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Assistant Minister, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. As much as there has been controversy over the previous and previous amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act so much about this proposal of the Strategic Planning Act there is no dispute. I judge by both the committee discussions and the discussions of clubs that have been so far, who have expressed their opinion that it is necessary to adopt such a document. Namely, an unsettled system of strategic planning has so far led the Republic of Croatia to a whole series of uncoordinated sectoral strategies, plans, programmes, county strategies,..., plans for development of municipalities and cities, strategies developed by LAGs. Different methodologies, shortcomings in SWOT analysis, skipping roof strategies, all of which ultimately led to a huge mess and a whole series of strategies that cost money, and are completely inefficient and inapplicable in nature. Strategic planning is a prerequisite for development and a high-quality strategy is a key development document that tells us about the vision of local community development, whether a city or a municipality, a region, a company or state as a whole. The pre-condition of a high-quality use strategy other than the methodology for the production itself is also a prerequisite for stakeholders involved in the creation of a partner council. The Partnership Council should consist of all those interested in its adoption, i.e. all those stakeholders or representatives of stakeholders who are a specific strategy and include. Therefore, the strategy process should involve a complete society, i.e. all sectors of the public sector, co-loquial government, civil sector, different citizens' stakeholders and ultimately the economic sector. Most of the strategies and plans that have been adopted in the Republic of Croatia so far have been debilitating just the stakeholders in these two sectors. It turned out that only the public sector, i.e. the government that brings development strategies, was another reason why these strategies were not good quality. It is necessary to say that all of these strategies, their production was not cheap, so it cost, the makers were neatly paid for it, you had, and unfortunately you still have companies consulting companies that are closely specialized in making copy-paste strategies without any, you can get what I know about managing a municipality in Lika then the strategy is made copy-paste for some municipality on Brac, change the mountains into the sea, change what I know about the island in the mountain and get a document that you can throw into the basket but which you have expensive paid and which in some case should bring some kind of benefit especially when you apply to a particular national or eu fund. And it's actually a crazy system that we hope will make this law much more orderly. What may be a challenge is that this law is written for a depolitical society and perhaps it is not an accident in Croatia and it may be a opposition to this law, but the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63803	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will resume the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 240 and at 12.00 hours of voting. Session interrupted at 17.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-07-0.u63804	Final proposal of the Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 189, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that the majority of votes are 117 votes in favour, three abstentions and 4 votes against the passed Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia.
