ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24814	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I've seen a few hands before I get started. The first is the hand of the distinguished representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24815	Thank you, dear Vice President. Yesterday I was in a meeting with the CNB, I have some important news that I would like to share with this Croatian Parliament and the public. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24816	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24817	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on Telecommunication Corruption, which means the topic I've talked about on many occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24818	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10-minute break in order to address the public for violations of the law when appointing members of the management of commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24820	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Major.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24821	On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to warn about the difficult life in rural areas and the fraud that was made towards local self-government units about the collection of the mining rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24822	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24823	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club. Let's change Croatia. Concerning data on reducing employment in the economy, the Croatian industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24824	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Hope, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24825	On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party, a 10-minute break related to new appointments by the Government in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24826	Okay. Well, then, since it's the same topic as the SDP behind each other, it makes sense. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Croatian Democratic Community club also wants to show itself about appointments in certain companies owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24828	Thank you very much. Any other club if there's one? I see they've all had their fun. Okay. Thank you very much. Then I'll see you in 45 minutes, 9 and 45. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24830	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a great chance to finally resolve the manipulation of interest rates that have lasted for more than 10 years. Yesterday I was at a meeting in the CNB with my colleague Baric and counterpart Vuletic from the SNAGA Party's General Committee. We were welcomed by Governor Vujcic and his associates, Vice-Governors and other associates. We discussed the law that I proposed and which I delivered to MOST and HDZ through which to finally resolve the problem of fixed interest margins that were not agreed on in over 100 thousand loans. And finally lighted a light bulb in the Croatian People's Bank. In fact, they never understood what I was talking about before. They thought I was talking about some kind of retroactive rate adjustment. However, when it comes to this new law, retroactivity is not in the right sense of this word, it is a retroactivity which would last from 1.1.2014 because that date the bank had to comply with its business with the Consumer Credit Act and from that date they had to contract with their debtors a variable parameter, a fixed part of the interest rate and a period of change in interest rates. And when I explained what this was about, it finally lit up that light bulb and they also concluded that it wasn't such a bad idea and that maybe we should go that way and help make it as high-quality as possible. They asked me to submit the bill to them, and they will, on the basis of this proposal, make a calculation that will make about one calculation, which means for the debtors and what it means for the banks. If this calculation is acceptable for debtors in this case, we could organise a working group. In this working group should be representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Banking Association and representatives of the Association of Franak and SNAGA parties most involved in addressing the problem. I have hope that it will finally go that way and that we will finally solve this problem. The promises of the Most and HDZ exist before the previous elections, and the Most gave me a promise here in the House that it would support the law. If nothing else is possible then through the parliamentary procedure. However, this way of solving this through the CNB and through the ministry is a much better way and this is how things should be dealt with in the Republic of Croatia. I have succeeded after 4 years of proof and assurance that the CNB will finally come up with a calculation of the bill. There were also discussions on other topics, so I objected to the Croatian National Bank for not ordering banks to respect the collective verdict in the Franak case. Because that collective verdict was imposed on banks that they should no longer behave in such a way as to prevent them from changing interest rates on their own. In other words, all interest rates that have been increased before the collective ruling must be returned to those amounts that were at the beginning of the contractual relationship. The banks didn't do it, and the CNB as a regulator did nothing. Unfortunately, however, the Croatian People's Bank's position is that it will not interfere in the contractual relations between debtors and banks, although it is the verdict, and the verdict has the power of law. The CNB was not prepared to even recommend the banks to head towards their clients and offer them deals. I also came up with information that a total of 2500 lawsuits were filed in Croatian courts for the return of overpaid interest, out of which 700 lawsuits were withdrawn. And then it's no wonder the banks don't want settlements because out of over a hundred thousand damaged debtors only two and a half thousand filed charges. That's exactly what banks expect a lot of debtors won't go into lawsuits and that's why let's say under quotes the damage will be less. The second thing that is very important and I said that neighbouring Serbia has suggested, for example, recommended to its banks that they return overpaid interest to the debtors and that is what the banks in Serbia have done. However, debtors there did not want those overpaid interest because they preferred to take the court route. Here's what I expect is that the law will solve the problem of illegal interest margins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24831	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the next one will speak for the esteemed Nikola Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24832	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few months, I have been talking about corruption in telecommunications, and I will continue to speak today because practically all of those warnings that I gave nothing happened on this issue, and I want these exhibitions in the Croatian Parliament to be wind in the back of building infrastructure, meaning by the state to the money from the EU funds. I will present a concrete case that took place immediately after the sale of Croatian Telecommunications, which refers to the withdrawal of money through invented intellectual services led by Ivica Mudrinic, then president of the Croatian Telecommunications Administration. Independent consulting company Ernest&Jong in summer of '99. Right before the sale of 35% of HT shares to Deutsche Telecom. She recorded all business processes in HT as part of the company's reorganisation project. The reasons for the existence of any business process from market, technology, to legal and contractual obligations to the State have been defined. The document also clearly describes the business process of optimising the network for mobile communications, and has established a way in which the state protects its interest through 60 million laws and concession contracts defined losses in a system that must not exceed 5%. In early October of '99. HT after the sale of 35% of Deutsche Telekom shares is immediately credited with 60 million heavy technical assistance contracts to HT through undefined intellectual services. It should be noted that this is illegal and that it is an obvious example of the withdrawal of money. HT is currently in majority state ownership and can only be performed as a public procurement rather than buying such services from a minority owner. It's from the following documents that I have and that I'm going to explain here clearly that no favors have ever been given to Deutsche Telekom but has just drawn money. October 28, '99. Ivica Mudrinic writes in Bonn Stefan Gross, calling for a signed contract proposing that he receive technical support services under the contract, network optimisation. At a press conference for the HT administration in October of '99. It is argued that the network optimisation process is ongoing and is being carried out in cooperation with experts and Deutsche Telekom. Right after that Mudrinic in November '99. In an interview with the company magazine, it states that the process will be near the end of the next few weeks, that a large number of highly educated experts who now have the support of the strategic partner are engaged in the process. Also in the letter of January 13, 2000, Dr. Scheller writes to Ivica Mudrinic referring to the letters to Stefan Gross, it is clear that no co-operation in the area has yet been realised but is just scheduled for the first meeting. Since the optimisation process did not take place according to a plan set up six months ago by an independent advisory house and the administration was already alerted to a breach and now there has been a serious breach of the concession agreement was submitted to the resolution ministry at the time. On March 6th 2000, Mudrinic appeared on the minister's request and acknowledges losses in the 18.5% system and explains that the problems will be eliminated over the next 3 to 4 months through the optimisation process. The concession contract allows over-lossing of 5% is 72 hours. So Mudrinic admits that co-operation with Deutsche Telekom through the optimisation process has been invented. Because if what he claims in the media is true, there would be no breach of the concession agreement. On 27 March 2000, a member of the HT administration Božidar Poldačar negotiates the establishment of a joint HDDT team to implement the optimization of the network. At the end of this cooperation was nothing, optimization was carried out as originally planned and Deutsche Telekom was paid 60 million kuna. Deutsche Telekom was paid a total of 417 million kuna at a time when the minority owner was paid. They came up with as simple mathematics as Deutsche Telekom was obliged to pay HT based on the interconnection difference, so they just declared it by Deutsche Telekom's intellectual services to HT. In addition to this case relating to the illegal withdrawal of money from Croatian Telecommunications towards then minority owner Deutsche Telekom, there was a suspension of planned investment in the wide-ranging Internet. So these examples I set show how money was drawn from Croatian Telekom, how Deutsche Telekom eventually took over Hrvatski Telekom and MOST will fight means that the state is building its own infrastructure. No one in Germany will tell us how we will behave in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24833	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the distinguished representative Mladen Madjer will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24834	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'd like to warn you of a bad situation in rural areas and... fraud about the payment of the mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as his counterpart Grumoja said, HSS has already warned several times about the situation in rural areas and certainly will not give up its demand until the ministries move forward, the resolute ministries to address these problems. 5 minutes for key problems, from key problems it is clear, as first tax reform. We brought tax reform here that only the rich felt and those who didn't, who didn't need it. Whether he who has or doesn't has, he doesn't need him. Is that the key to success? And what has been waiting for us since 1 January 2018 when the tax on real estate starts. It's all as far as we can see it matches the pockets of the poor and the middle layer of the citizens. Clearly to whom this reform suits, where did it feel positive? Unfortunately, the farmer will pay taxes on a corn basket. Will we also destroy our poor and poor peasants? Life in rural areas, the HSS has warned earlier about the problem of lack of family medicine in rural areas. So don't these people in the rural areas deserve better care and attention. Are they convicted of being convicted of having to travel to a doctor for up to 50 km and not even for a bus ticket? How do the Resorient Ministry, or Government, plan to address this problem in the future? We're looking for concrete rather than cosmetic measures to hire young people. Is it difficult to find the means for stimulating measures for a young doctor who would like to work in the country or, for example, on islands from subsidisation of the apartment, transportation, etc. Besides, when I ride my Podravina on every other house, it says it's for sale. People are leaving us, moving out, what will be the economic picture of our village in the first place when our residents leave the villages? Dear colleagues, are we aware that the village's grandmothers must live with 600 kuna of their retirement? The mining rent, this cream at the end of the mining rent, has already been discussed several times, and we are always discussing and proposing conclusions that would lead to greater revenues for local and regional self-government units to increase their regular rent. And then we see the answer that we got that the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed with the MOL contract by 2024 that the mining rent cannot be increased from 10 to 12% of what we were looking for. So who had the authority to sign the agreement without informing local self-government units so they could plan their budgets at all. So why didn't it come out publicly that it couldn't be increased ore rent. We are now going to ask this 10% percentage amount to go to local and regional self-government units. As far as the Parliament's work is concerned, every Friday, unfortunately, in the Assembly, we are dealing with the removal of immunity, we are saying we are dealing with ourselves, and this is the situation we have at the door. Look at how many of us here and now sits here in the council benches. There are often more visitors to the gallery somewhere here in the assembly. We give ourselves a shameful picture of our work to this Croatian Parliament. Does he consider this a key legislative institution in the state? As we deal with ourselves, the question of whether people will stay in their homes for as long as possible. Clearly, if this condition continues, it is clear that if this condition continues, they will have to go to the streets, and that is unfortunate. Isn't it high time we started solving burning problems here, leaving the side effects on the sidelines?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24835	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia's words, the distinguished representative, Ivica Misic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24836	Thank you, Vice President. Our colleagues and colleagues, we have asked Croatia for a break in front of the club because of the worrying data on the reduction of employment in the economy and industry, and to point to the urgent changes that must be made to the retention, attracting experts to the education system. This is what we want to look at the government's announced measures to address unemployment. The Croatian economy has been growing very solid for some time now, but I would like to warn from this pay phone about the phenomena that we at the club Change Croatia has seen that will certainly endanger the growth of the economy, perhaps this year if measures are not taken urgently. Croatia is already now facing the lack of qualified training forces in particular in certain professions, and some companies are already refusing jobs. We came to that information after talking to entrepreneurs. How much of this is the problem speaking enough and the fact that employers have requested imports of three times as many workers as the approved quotas for this year, and this year the most import quotas for foreign workers are approved. Also, despite the fact that there are 240,000 unemployed at the Employment Service, there are more than 20,000 job openings, as confirmed by the prime minister. In Croatia, a critically reduced number of most productive citizens in the last 5 years have been working most productive between 19 and 40 years, with almost 60.000. Although we do not have official data according to those collected on the ground from Croatia, in less than three years about 150,000 citizens have moved out. With such outflows and labour shortages, the Croatian economy cannot grow, especially at unwanted rates of 3 and a half percent per year, which guarantees us a sustainable growth of the economy. But returning the accumulated loans on which we pay dear interest. The measures put forward by the Government are simply not enough to change that. It is necessary to work on an expensive scale and reform, to implement sectoral measures that will stop the drain of experts, to attract quality experts with new knowledge, but also to provide enough workers with the necessary skills for fast and sustainable economic growth. We urgently have to stop the overall drop in employment, especially in the industry. We call on the Government to revive the proposal for educational reform as soon as possible, in particular the reform of secondary education, the introduction of a dual system and the one that will give workers with the necessary skills for deficiting interest. Work to retrain and encourage the retraining of unemployed citizens for the needs of deficiting professions. To agree with employers' representatives, companies that the state along with private partners subsidise education for such an occupation. On the ground, we got assurances that companies are ready to move like that. This is all to be done to ensure sustainable, economic development has accelerated, investment in the new age industry has been attracted, as well as to ensure a better future and reality of the growth of Croatian citizens' salaries as requested by trade unions as well as to save the pension system from possible collapse. We call for consensus and understanding of the biggest parties and those in power and opposition on these issues, a consensus that must be above parties and ideologies, a consensus for better and richer Croatia and its citizens. Let me do it again. Croatia must not push its head into the sand, it must face drain problems, but also lack of professional labour. We urgently need to establish systems that will stop experts from draining and attract the highest-quality experts from all over the world. Firefighting measures such as imports of the necessary workforce only in the short term, thus enabling the economy to grow. Work on a more urgent reform of education to adapt to the needs of employers and achieve a full consensus of all political parties, and therefore key issues for achieving wage growth and citizens' standards. We are in it ready to be constructive and help with all our resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24837	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives, the word will now be taken by a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24838	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This break was driven by a story told in public these days, which is the staffing of the Maric family, i.e. the staffing of the family of the minister in charge of state property management. You may say this is not a topic since Mr Svetomir Maric resigned. But we think that this is the subject and that is because the statements made by those involved in this whole story show that when Mr. Marić was appointed, he was seriously violated by the law and at least violated in the work concerning the relatives of Director Marić with Minister Maric. But let me explain exactly what I mean. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is prescribed to quote: "Members of the administrative bodies and supervisory boards of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has shares or shares in the ownership of the company proposes to the main assembly, or the Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Croatia". So either Minister Maric doesn't tell the truth when he says he didn't know about the appointment of his brother or authority at the Ministry of the Sea and the Croatian Railways don't take care of the law and appoint them to carry out clear and explicitly prescribed provisions that require the government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on that. Under Article 19(4) of the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State administration, it is prescribed that management operations in commercial companies entering its portfolio must be carried out together with the Ministry of State Property Management. Once again, or Minister Maric does not tell the truth when he says he did not know about the appointment of his brother or the authority in the ministry system must not respect the law that requires them to consult with the Ministry of State Administration, which is very hard to believe through public appearances and what was happening in the government. Under 3rd, Director Maric was 22 days before he became director of the company's dismissal in the Croatian Railways and Encouragement system. According to media reports, other workers had to sign a statement when receiving the severance payment that they had to return the severance payment if they were re-employed in the Croatian Railways system within 3 years. From the public information available, Director Maric did not do so, so he received both severance and work. Both under 4th and finally Director Maric is the brother of Minister Maric. I ask you, do you believe in the sad life story that one brother doesn't hear from another brother or even to congratulate him on Christmas or New Year's, or to tell him that he's out of a job? We do not believe that story because Minister Maric had to know because of everything he said here that his brother would become the director of Maric and had to know that because of his kinship this appointment would be questioned by the public. If Minister Maric is indeed an expert in his work for which we have no reason to doubt at all, then Minister Maric, if from nothing else, had at least to ensure that his appointment respected the procedure. Minister Maric did not do so and therefore Minister Maric is responsible for what happened. But that story disappears. Here we read that Mr. Maric's brother-in-law, Mr. Miro Juric, also took over recently in the same society. The Maric family's property and family appeared to be extremely professional and suitable for the management of RS-owned companies. At the same time, Mrs. Mikulić, the wife of the president of the Zagreb Assembly, received a job at the Croatian Railways also at the company HZ railway building. Unlike this Mrs. Juric and Marić, she has no background in Croatian railways or related businesses. So, what brings us to the conclusion is whether during this case they were told falsely by very responsible people or knowingly, they were breaking the law of the prescribed procedure. Is that credibility, is that honesty, is that transparency, is that respect for democratic institutions that we hear so much about from this government? It is credible, but only in violation of the law, in violation of procedures, in violation of the very foundations of democracy. This is a clear picture of a colleague and colleagues as this government intends to rule and we will not be silent about it in the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24839	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of HNS and HSU MP Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It means on the same subject that a fellow SDP officer spoke about and about new appointments from the government, i.e. regarding a new government regulation under which the Minister who manages the property is given the exclusive right to propose to the Government the appointment of personnel in certain cases, means when it is considered impossible to find an adequate fit within a period of 6 months, the minister may propose a appointment to the Government. We in HNS have always advocated the view that the government, or government, must assume responsibility for governance especially when it comes to governance of state-owned companies and state-owned assets. And we do not dispute the right of the ruling to do so, absolutely, in fact. However, it bothers us, of course, the way he tries and it is quite evident from the events in the past days that it is meant by interdependence on one side of transparency, truth and expertise, unfortunately, quite the opposite. Well, I'm not going to look back at Mr. Maric and that individual case, but I'm going to say that yesterday was just that way four airport directors, who I'm guessing are out of mandates, can't be completely sure at this point, but I think they are. But I must warn the following. So 4 very important airports of this kind seem to me to be all airports in which the directors are appointed at this time of 6 months as V.D. the airports on the coast are very important in the tourist season. And the places of those people who have done so so far are named by some other people without respecting the fact that the job at the airports is extremely responsible, that there is a great crowd and tourist season ahead of us and that it could certainly have waited for the passing of the tourist season if it could not have been found at this time through the public tender of adequate staff to push these people who have been doing this so far to push the tourist season, but it is cut down in a way that there are some who obviously can't wait for those 6 months to be appointed. And I think you might as well check, some of them don't have an adequate profession to behave in this job, or they wouldn't be able to meet the public tender in case it's published. So it's you, especially your colleagues from MOST, that I have to point out that the full mouth was stories of transparency, of accusing all other colleagues in which they were named and elected by people in state-owned companies, of assaults and even insults. But here are the new developments in fact talking about not keeping our election promises, i.e. that our HDZ and MOST colleagues are not keeping their election promises. On behalf of the CNS, we are actually calling for you to take responsibility, to stop arguing about the staff, to work on the basis of the law and to work on the basis of the profession, and that if it is possible to bypass the brothers, sisters and godmothers in the appointment of responsible duties in our state-owned companies. We are a small country and there is not many of us, however, and we are probably every tenth man is one of us here in the Croatian Assembly who lives in the Republic of Croatia a friend or acquaintance. However, we must be clear and say that it is possible to skip the brothers, sisters, godmothers and change the statutes, regulations, regulations, governments in order to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24841	Thank you. And as the last one, the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak on behalf of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u24842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that Mrs. Nada Turina-Đuric is leaving, as well as Mr. Hajdukovic has left after having had his exposés these five minutes related to the appointments of the government. I don't know if Mr. Hajdukovic speaks for himself or on behalf of the SDP club. Because if he's speaking for himself then he's torn off the party stage and he doesn't respect any deal I've heard that's on behalf of the SDP club. And if he speaks on behalf of the SDP club, then I must say that the SDP club is hypocritical because we have witnessed that in the past two months, within the debate in the Croatian Parliament, individual SDP officials have also touched. One of them is no longer an SDP official, and then the SDP club told us in the Croatian Democratic Community that we should not agree to the name and last name of colleagues, that we should hold this level of debate in the Croatian Parliament at a higher level, that we should respect the Institute, the constitutional institute means the presummation of innocence, that we create problems in the families of these same colleagues sitting here in the Assembly. That's what we said, I'd like to collegiately and accept, that here today the SDP can't go beyond its own framework, but at a personal level, some officials are calling out, and I don't blame them for that. It is the full right of MPs to speak as they wish and as they wish. But then let them and such approach then demand that others do not respect or seek some sort of agreement and consensus on the performance when it comes to fellow Members of Parliament, they were ministers. So when we talk about how each government has acted since it took responsibility for state-leading, I think both SDP and HNS forgot that in the first session of the Parliament, when the government of the SDP and the HNS in 2011, it took responsibility for the management of Croatia, that it had passed laws and regulations that had fully politicised both state administrations and appointments in a public enterprise. You know very well that because of these decisions, that those decisions have been taken down by the Constitutional Court because you have disabled the equality of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for public service employment, in the state administration. This famous system of revolving doors, the rotating doors, have been torn down by the Constitutional Court. You knew that the Constitutional Court had brought them down, but you didn't want to change them, but you were waiting for the end of the mandate to drag those persons into your party, party members into state services and into public companies so that you would now make a decision to return to what the HDZ Government had made in the service. Left them at the posts of members of the supervisory boards, administrations, etc. etc. And to prove yourself to the great Democrats, because at the end of the term, you are now seeking contests for what you have made your own decisions. So the entire public remembers an email that went from the centre of the HNS to all members of the HNS who want to advance, who want to hire to report to the centre so that the centre can order its ministers to put them in the right jobs. And I didn't mean to mention it, and I never mentioned it until after you collegiately beg us not to mention names, you're looking for a break to call the names of HDZ officials. I do not want to defend anyone, nor the HDZ officials who do not comply with the law, but we are witnesses these days, and it seems to me that it is precisely seeking a break of spin and trying to throw dust into the eyes to remove attention to the procedures of the investigative bodies in Croatia, in the first order of the DORH to individual SDP officials on the one hand and to remove the attention and findings of the State Office for Audit, which has certainly combed through various institutions that have been illegally operating at the time of the SDP government. And in the end, only Mrs. Nadi Turini Đuric will say, it is not true when it comes to four airport directors, but four of them, as appointed yesterday by the government as acting officials, have expired their mandates. And about them, four of the existing three that the Government of Zoran Milanovic has appointed will continue to function as performers for 6 months in which the government, according to the October 2015 SDP decision, has to conduct a tender and we will carry out the competition, we will appoint on the basis of the best, best quality and most capable people. But it is not true that we have been looking forward to staffing in public enterprises, so we have replaced people from the time of Zoran Milanovic but it has been a year and a half since then than it has been done for reasons why the mandates have expired and what is to be called a contest with which we fully agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32573	Now, after all of this, we could move to point 1 and that's: - Proposal for a law on comparableity of fees, transfer of payment accounts and access to a basic account, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 83; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Zeljko Tufekcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. This law regulates rules for the comparableity of the charges charged to the consumer. Transfer of a payment account within the Republic of Croatia, and opening and using a basic payment account. The subject matter of this law has so far not been regulated by the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the main incentive for the adoption of this law is the transposition of Directive No. 92 of the 2014 European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees related to payment accounts, transfer of payment invoices and access to payment accounts with basic services in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. That Directive entered into force on 17 September 2014, and regulates uniform rules for the entire European and economic area. In addition to the transposition of the provisions of the directive, the main reason for the applicant in proposing this law is the need to increase transparency and comparability of fees related to the payment account, to mitigate difficulties in transferring the payment account and to ensure consumer rights to open and use the basic payment account. Law-making is expected to improve the provision of payment services to consumers and, consequently, to increase the level of competition in the banking services sector to the population. The bill provides a payment account which is defined as an account held by the payment service provider in the form of a credit institution on behalf of one or more consumers and through which the consumer can at least pay cash, raise cash and execute and receive payment transactions including credit transfers for the benefit of another person or of another person. From the above account functionality, currently in the Republic of Croatia the payment account would primarily be considered liquid and jury accounts of consumers in kunas and foreign currencies. As regards the current situation in this area on 31 December 2015, consumers had a total open, 7 million 258 and 363 transaction accounts. The number of consumers in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December, so on that same date, at least one transaction account was opened was 3 million and 608 thousand 852. When comparing the above 2 figures, it can be concluded that the average holder, i.e. the average consumer in the Republic of Croatia, had two transaction accounts opened. Therefore, the objectives of the law are to increase transparency and comparability of payment charges, establish rules for the transfer of payment accounts within the Republic of Croatia, facilitate cross-border opening of payment accounts and set up rules for the opening and use of the basic account. Increase transparency and comparableity of fees related to the payment account, so something about this part of the law that regulates transparency. Therefore, under this law, a credit institution is obliged before the consumer is bound by an offer or a framework contract of a payment account and gives the consumer sufficient advance information document on fees for the most representative services related to the payment plague and the concept that must cover at least the names and definitions of the services themselves. It will be mandatory to use service names from the final list of the most representative services associated with the payment account, which will definitely make it easier for the consumer to compare offers of different credit institutions, therefore standardisation of services is taking place. If one or more payment account-related services are offered as part of a package of services associated with an account for payment of an information document with fees must contain a fee for the whole package, the services included in the package and their quantity as well as an additional fee for any service exceeding the amount covered by the package fee. The CNB shall establish a list of at least ten and no more than 20 of the most representative services associated with the payment account, and shall assess and update that list every four years, where appropriate. In addition, the credit institution is obliged to provide, at least once a year, a free payment account with or to make available to the consumer a report on all accounted and paid fees and interest related to the payment account, including interest rate information and the total amount of charged interest on the agreed excess. This will further inform consumers of the real amount of fees paid at the annual level as well as the total amount of interest charged on the agreed excess during the same period. In order to increase the transparency of CNB charges on its website, it will publish a comparison of the fees charged by different credit institutions to consumers for the most representative services associated with the payment account. The purpose is to provide consumers with access to impartial and credible information on the real amount of fees related to a payment account that charges all credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Access to that page will, of course, be free of charge and will allow consumers to obtain clear, aggregated and accurate information on fees charged by credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia and all in one place without therefore unnecessary costs. This will make it very easy for consumers to choose the most favourable credit institution, thus increasing competition among credit institutions. All credit institutions are also obliged to provide a link to that side of the Croatian National Bank on their website. It's about laying down rules for the transfer of payment accounts. The law introduces rules that simplify and regulate the payment account transfer service in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the transfer of the payment account and the opening of the payment account to another credit institution. The transfer service should allow the consumer a clear, fast and secure transfer of the payment account in the same currency to the payment service provider in the Republic of Croatia without excessive administrative or financial burden on consumers. In order to achieve its right to transfer the payment account in the Republic of Croatia, the consumer will only have to give power to a credit institution that wants to transfer its account. By 12 days legal deadline, information on permanent findings, direct debits and repeated incoming credit transfers to the payment account, and the balance of accounts as defined in the power of attorney will be transferred from credit institution to one another. The fees relating to the transfer service must also be reasonable in accordance with the actual costs of that payment service provider. As regards the right to a basic payment account, the law also regulates the way in which a basic payment account is opened and used in credit institutions for consumers with legal residence in the EU. Although service providers still offer certain categories today, certain categories of consumers, for example students, pensioners etc. The opening and use of payment accounts under more favourable conditions of this law will allow for a particularly sensitive group of consumers of social assistance to exercise their right to a basic account, including the right to 10 free national payment transactions per month. The basic account shall include the following services: opening and keeping the payment account, depositing cash on the payment account, raising cash from that account, and carrying out payment transactions. Therefore, direct debits, payment transactions through a payment card including payments via internet and credit transfers, including permanent orders on terminals, counters and payments through Internet banking systems. The right to open and use a basic account is non-discriminatory and is easily available. The law lays down the obligation to open and maintain a basic account for those credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia whose financial power and network distribution of business units ensures wide availability for all consumers wishing to open a basic account. A credit institution that, according to the revised annual financial statements for the previous year, has a total asset greater than 15 billion kuna is obliged to offer consumers a basic account, and other credit institutions can do so. The basic account is kept in kunas, and the agreed overrun by that account is not allowed. The fee for opening and using the basic consumer account belonging to the vulnerable group under this legal solution would be around 7 kuna per month. This law shall enter into force on 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal, with the exception of the provisions of the Transparency and Comparability Act relating to the payment account entered into force on the first day following the expiry of the period of 9 months following the entry into force of the delegated act of the European Commission defining the format and structure of those provisions. This delegated act is expected to be prepared and adopted by the European Commission in the second quarter of this year and most likely in the form of a regulation. Honorable MPs are before you, so it's a brand-new law. A law that would significantly and significantly improve transparency and comparability, and thus certainly and competitiveness of the fees paid by credit institutions to consumers, account holders, therefore, to citizens. It will significantly facilitate the transfer of accounts from one credit institution to another and, in any case, improve the position, the current position of account holders or consumers in relation to credit institutions. The following is what we expect, indeed, to support all of this law. Before that, of course we expect a constructive debate, we expect your proposals for possible improvements to the law itself. The law goes into two readings, so we'll certainly have a chance at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32575	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32576	Thank you, dear Vice President. It's very good that this law is in the process, it's very good that we bring it, I hope we bring it, and I believe we will bring it. The law was needed 10 years ago and 15 years ago, unfortunately we didn't have it, it seems that, in parallel with citizens' awareness, the state is also conscious under the pressure of the EU Directive. But what I'd like to say further has nothing to do with this law, but it has to do with bank fees. In my opinion, banks unlawfully charge two types of compensation and these are fees for the processing of loans and the exit fee for early repayment of loans. So it should be considered as soon as possible to ban those two fees. Because that credit-processing fee is unspecified, it has no basis for any exact data. The bank simply says 1.5% of credit-processing fees so it doesn't matter if the loan is a million kuna, 10 million kuna or how much, it's always 1.5%. Therefore, that fee should be prohibited and support for the ban and fees I have an example of Germany that banned these fees through the Supreme Court. In Germany, therefore, banks had to pay the debtors all the input fees because they were illegally charged. As for the early repayment of the loan, we already have a power of judgment whereby such early compensation had to be reimbursed to the debtor, it has no basis in the Mandatory Relations Act because the Mandatory Relations Act clearly states that in the event of early repayment of the credit that he must repay the remaining principal and interest due on the day of payment of the loan. Therefore, the early repayment fee does not comply with the mandatory relationship law and must be explicitly prohibited. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32577	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32578	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State and my replica will come out of this law a little bit, but this law certainly needs to be supported and in any case those main objectives that you set are very good and especially in the sense that when you emphasized that fees must be reasonable so that no one bank charges for copying paper 30 kunas and similar things. I was at the bank the other day, so I asked the lady for the counter, so do you trust your clients, she said, of course we do, so that's the foundation of cooperation. So I say why did you tie the pens? So it's all about cooperation and client-to-bank relations. But what I want to warn you about, which is now a problem, right now, is, let's say, specifically in Slavonia. So in municipal centres, therefore, not in smaller places, but in the very centres, businesses are being shut down because there is no economic interest anymore. So people are no longer concerned with the relationship between the two banks in terms of the advantage of compensation rather than the availability of the bank at all. Can the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Government do anything about it, through the CNB, through the HPB owned by the Republic of Croatia to allow access? Internet banking is very good, however, we are returning to the question and systems of e-Citizens, generally informing the system, as far as is available to people, especially in rural areas. So I apologize that I may be coming in now with something that's not the subject of this, but it's very important for the lives of citizens, especially I say in smaller places because they need this law to be supported, but they're not going to be brought by special benphites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32579	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32580	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. How does this law regulate the issue of protected accounts? Here we have a case from a few days ago that people haven't gotten their pensions and they haven't gotten them yet, many of them won't even get through at least 10 days. You mentioned here that therefore special categories of citizens, specifically pensioners have the right to lower tariffs and even to free, part of free transactions. Why didn't that provision apply, right now, to this particular case of people meeting? Because what is the logic, then, that people next to a protected account, means people we know can't pay their obligations have to open their current account in particular now, will they have to pay for that current account to open it, so that even though there won't be any traffic on that current account and then open another protected account after that? And this raises the question whether such citizens under this law that shows a good intensity can be protected in what way? So I ask you nicely, among other things, if you can answer that question. And also on the question why didn't you inform the pensioners of what was going to happen early, or at the right time, but they had to learn this information only on bank counters where they naturally experienced shock, it's about older citizens, some 80, 90 years old, and they had to understand simply that in the coming week, two won't have the basic means of living? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32581	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32582	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I asked for a break and now my colleague Bunjac has asked again, so I will just continue, so more than 3,000 Croatian citizens can't reach their pensions or protected accounts. The Croatian Post Bank, a respected secretary, is owned by the Republic of Croatia. We are talking here about some directives, about accounts, about transparency but these 3.5 thousand people, among whom many Croatian defenders and poor citizens due to 70 kuna due to the debt of the CNB, the Croatian bank, which should protect Croatian interests, our citizens and business entities have sold to a foreign debt-seeking agency that amount, and we do not have, now these citizens do not have the opportunity or pension opportunities to pay a pension to any account. Who's going to be responsible for that? Who will pay that because it is the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Bank and its administration, so the state bank. What these people can't raise their pensions now, what Croatian pensions can't, the Pensions Agency doesn't have to pay their pensions. This is not happening in the EU. These are all the ballads and these directives you're saying may be more transparent, I'm not going in on it. But all I can see is that it's suitable for banks. But it's kind of understandable that foreign banks who suck out all the money because they favored our policies to foreign banks. But the Croatian postal bank owned by the state to block, to close the account and protect the citizens and simply cannot raise pensions who will give them bread, let alone open new accounts. That's what I had a break about yesterday, and now my colleague Bunjac has repeated it, and that's the question of all the questions. That's 300 grand done plus these three and a half thousand. Not only do you not charge the budget, but people don't have bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32583	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club will be spoken by a colleague, Sincic, but now a colleague, Branimir Bunjac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32584	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing fees among other things that are charged by banks, so the question is, what are these fees, how many are there, and how many are they? First of all, it is necessary to say the way banks function and make their profits. So, banks will never take their clients' large sums of money because they know it would cause a legitimate revolt, but they have another way, which is to take them small amounts, but to take them for life. So the moment a man is hired at some age of 20, 25, or 30 years to take from that moment every month until his death a monthly fee. It's not big, but in a cumulative sense, after 50 or 60 years, you realize that the citizens paid the bank in the name of the fee a huge amount of money. And then it turns out time gradually the citizens realize that these fees are actually a tool for robbery which I will try briefly in this presentation and present. The first is that banks charge citizens about 4 hundred fees between 250 and 400 as a rule. Of these fees and bank fees, 4 billion kunas each year are taken from Croatia. So that's the amount. Here we are discussing so much, the huge amount that banks charge from citizens. I took this information from that semi-annual report by the Croatian National Bank for 2015, which you all received. It is interesting that this Croatian National Bank, which knows how many banks have charged to citizens, does not know what these fees are, nor does it have data on the number of these fees that banks charge to Croatian citizens. And over time, I repeat, it shows that when citizens start to think about it a little bit, they are interested that many of these fees are illegal, as he mentioned among other things and proved by his colleague, Alexic. For example, you all remember the warnings that were charged to 50 kunas that banks allegedly had to pay back, and you know that in practice this return was often obstructed. For example, if the smaller bank had merged with the larger bank then those warnings did not return, because as a change of ownership structure occurred, it was an excuse why these warnings did not eventually return. We also heard that the exit fees for early repayment of loans are illegal, and we heard that credit processing fees in most European countries do not exist because it is actually the work of bankers for which they have already been paid. It is unfortunate that we have warned multiple times during the parliamentary debates that even the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is once again a state bank as well as the HPB mentioned by counterpart Bulj is charging that anti-zoonite fee of 0.5%, meaning from the approved loan. A bank that should actually help the Croatian economy is charging one such unnecessary illegal fee. In addition to such fees, there are a whole series of other fees that banks charge. Here, I'll just remind you for a second. Let's say making cards, cash withdrawal fees from ATMs that sometimes amount to up to 2% of the amount that rises, say, if it rises on other banks' ATMs abroad and so forth. A monthly or annual membership fee must then be paid for these cards. There's got to be a billing fee. Here I don't understand as an average citizen how it's handled, so if he can explain to me how the government's bank accounts, where it takes him. I don't know, is he taking him on a leash or how it's being taken care of? We hear banks charge for Internet banking, to issue tokens that they charge again. Don't let God break the token or lose it, then you have to pay it even more expensive than the first time. We hear that banks charge text messages, that we have packages of services, especially packages for children, and for students, and for pensioners. We hear that banks charge for the opening of a foreign exchange account, a jury account, a current account, the release of excerpts, the sending of notifications, e.g. notice of sending a PIN, changing the PIN, granting a minus, and then the favorite fee of all banks for blocking the account charged by FINA. So every payment of blocked accounts, robbed, humiliated citizens is charged again. I don't know if you've ever seen these amounts, but it's thousands of kunas, not hundreds and dozens, thousands of kunas that are charged, so to the people who live on the social edge. In addition, banks do not allow accounts to be empty, so you must have the minimum required amount in the account. If you're checking bills, for example. If they're forged, it must also be charged. Then you charge the exchange of coins in paper, let's say if you have 100 kuna in coins and you want 100 kuna paper, it must also be paid. Sometimes banks charge for exchanges, especially when it comes to coins, e.g. With euro coins, he won't even accept them because they have a special course, let's say 7 kuna for coins and 7.5 for paper ones. So then it was known, we read during the tourist season that the party gave 720 kuna for 100 euros. And a whole series of such fees that a man must truly be surprised at, in fact, he doesn't have to be surprised when he sees this amount of 4.6 billion kunas that banks are doing in this way. There are, of course, even more extreme cases, there are literally absurdities, when you have, say, a case that if you pay money in a foreign exchange account, you have to pay 70 kuna and if you have an inflow to a foreign exchange account, then you have to pay 50 kuna. And now, if by any chance you have 5 euros to pay, you will spend 120 kuna on that 5 euros on the transaction itself, and 15 euros, respectively. Here's an example, concrete, just so you know. Let's say if you paid the parking ticket you got in Budapest and that parking ticket is 30 or 40 kuna, when you come to Croatia and pay from your account the transaction will cost you 80 kuna. So you'll pay three parking tickets thanks to the bank fee. The same case will be for you if you have to pay one or two kunas, here we can go to the bank to pay 2 kunas, make the transactions, here I will pay Mr. Bulje 2 kunas, but I will pay 15 kunas for it because among other things I paid him in coins and the transfer of money in coins is more expensive than the transfer of money in paper form. And what we can do now. Here we can pass a law like this where we can see transparently what the fees are, which doesn't mean that they'll be abolished, we'll eventually be able to replace the bank where we're with another bank but if we've previously settled the minus on current and all obligations. Which means that the citizen who's already been robbed and who doesn't have the money will never actually be able to transfer to another bank. He can when he pays all the bills. That's great, that's just like when he says, we'll open up liquids for you when you unblock the bill. 330,000 Croatian citizens would be overjoyed if they could continue to live normally but, of course, they can't and then spin around in a circle of debt while banks, therefore the fat geese, continue to take these same impoverished Croatian citizens, so billions of kuna. It would be fair to say that with this law that we are now passing, which in itself is not bad, where we will finally be able to find out at least what the fees are, how much they are charged, where, to allow Croatian citizens and Croatian pensioners to receive salaries on their hands. Such a law should be passed in parallel with the fact that a Croatian citizen has the option of a choice, the right choice to bypass banks. Here I have tried as a parliamentary representative to get paid and I can't get it. None of you can get it, no travels, no journals, nothing, except, of course, some exceptions that can do it. Why would they deny citizens the right to have their own salary? Someone may also have a very large fee of 50 kuna. There's a lot of 20 kuna for people, not to you, or us, but I guarantee you there are people who have a lot of it. Why do these people with these pensions have to wait until the 15th? Why has the provision that pensions can be obtained by hand, or can be obtained but you have to pay, and then of course no one will pay but rather open a bank account? Why is it that some fee that was paid before the mailmen in the hands of, therefore, Croatian citizens to whom this small supplement on pay is welcome again to those who have too much, which we don't even know and what is most important of all living outside of Croatia? Therefore, I would like to conclude that the banking fees in Croatia are, as a rule, unfair, too high, that order should be introduced in this area through this law and I believe that by the end of the debate, it will further improve but that citizens should also have the right alternative, and that right alternative will be able to make their money available in cash, to receive salaries and pensions at hand if they so wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32585	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32586	My colleague Bunjac would agree with you completely and it is a sad fact that as you said about 400 fees that citizens don't even know that banks take 4.6 billion kunas a year in their pockets. Of course he didn't start there, it's not the banks themselves. The fact that these banks went into foreign hands, and our citizens were capitalizing on a huge amount. And the fact that these fees now go instead to the Croatian economy and that we encourage the economy if we already pay and the benefits go to foreigners and of course it is a sovereign part of the sovereignty that in this financial situation, the financial situation is on the side so it is not good on the part of Croatia. As you mentioned, the Croatian National Bank. Well, the Croatian National Bank sold 15 tons of gold. Every fellow citizen who paid now to a foreign bank that fee was co-owner of at least one part. For the gold to be sold, it would take some kind of referendum, ask every citizen. He didn't even wonder about Parliament. They swept the warehouse, imagine 15 tons of gold without asking the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What's the reason to sell it? What's the reason these fees go to foreign banks? And that is why I fully support you in this statement. And it is unfortunate what the Croatian Post Bank, a bank owned by the Republic of Croatia, sold to a foreign company a debt, and closed the account liquid and protected to our citizens 3 and a half thousand people who cannot, where the Pensions Institute cannot pay pensions to our people and will have to wait again when they will receive pensions and pay for the opening of accounts and all other costs. But to the Croatian bank, that's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32587	Thank you. The reply to the replica will be given by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32588	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bulj, indeed this problem you mentioned is very important for the prominent perhaps on the sidelines of the debate on this law, which is a question that the state in Europe has only one single bank in its possession. I'd like to see here maybe the secretary of state knows that he's telling us if there's such an example in the whole world, that 98% of banks are owned by foreign banks. And now that we hear that 4.6 billion goes to those fees and commissions, there's a logical question of where that money's going. Where's that money going? Here we don't have 20 million kunas for severance payments to the cops, but we have 4.6 billion kuna for compensation. And I'm objectively asking you what kind of hard work bankers do when they do credit or I don't know here we're just talking about keeping an account. How many thousands of people do that in banks so I don't know how to make that kind of income. So we 4.6 billion kunas, that's five budgets I don't know the Ministry of Culture we're paying for some sort of fee. I think it's too much going on with the banks and it's sad, it's just too sad that Europe has to prescribe this law for us right now. So what we've been doing, so where's our brains, our people not to protect our citizens, is that only now we have a law like this on the agenda after 25 years of El Dorado, which was called bank fees, or in the translation of citizens' robberies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32589	Thank you. The next one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32590	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we have a law on the compatibility of fees, the transfer of payment bills and access to a personal account. When I read this name to an ordinary citizen, and also to my colleagues who are not in this area, they do not deal with finance and do not say anything to them, and this law is nothing and they do not know what they are getting. But, of course, I welcome the proposer and I realize that this is the name you need. So what's this about? It's about banks, the fees they charge. So users count how to transfer accounts, how to compare these fees. So, the comparableity of the fees that banks charge in accounts, how to transfer the bank account to the bank. And this way I would like to, introduce how this law came about, why what is mentioned by my colleague Bunjac is bringing only today, which are the objectives and I would say the consequences for our citizens will create and what is in the articles because this first reading would invite everyone to see if there are any other things that are happening to them in practice so that they can change them, so that this law really means causing those consequences and achieving those goals that we want to achieve. So the truth is that this law is being passed for the sake of a directive. Here's a fellow Bull likes to say directorate. I like to give guidance because I'm dealing with this European law and I'm studying it. So that's one guideline that was adopted in 2014, so 922014/92. It was adopted in July, it entered into force in September or came into force, just a little, 17 September 2014, and we had an obligation to include it by 9 months in our legislation. So it has also been brought by our representatives who are in the European Parliament and its objectives are to increase transparency and comparableity of fees related to the payment account, establish rules for the transfer of payment accounts, facilitate cross-border opening of payment accounts, and establish rules for the opening and use of the basic payment account. What she would say is, what will come out here for our citizens that they will be able to easily compare all the fees, that there will be one information document, will be arranged meaning the rules on how to transfer from one bank to another account. And it specifically means what articles and how it will be, so it is in this law. A colleague Alexic mentioned that it would be good if we didn't have credit processing fees, for early credit closure, I agree that would be good. It would be good if in all some segments of our lives we could compare all the fees, so in particular, when she comes I don't know about her grandmother then she shows me the bill for municipal fees, so it seems to her that even utility companies that charge services, I don't know about transportation, garbage have similar fees as those that already charge them, and it confuses them all. So it would be good if in every segment of society we could compare the fees and that these fees were as little as possible and that they reduced the burden on our economy, on our citizens, on those socially most vulnerable but of course we must be aware that, however, that someone is keeping our account, that it requires certain costs, that people are employed and that they have to make some income from all of that. And so three of these integral things are being changed by this law, that means that we're going to allow comparison of these fees. It is an information document on which there can be only 10 to 20 of these fees, they must be determined as such, we cannot invent new ones and for this is in charge in the future of the CNB, that on its site, which will have one free access to the list of all fees paid by banks in Croatia and that lipo compares them and anyone who wants to open some basic account has access to a simple site. This means that Article 5 provides exactly what this information document must contain. So it has to be the names of all services, it has to be a short, independent document, it has to be accurate, so it has to have the name of an information document on fees, it can't be some kind of a shortened document, it can't be basic, so it has to be a complete information document on fees. It must be equally understood whether it is printed, whether it is photocopied in a black white version and must have a statement that it contains fees for the most representative services, must be written in Croatian and can be agreed upon and translated. So there must be fees in the official currency but there can be agreed on by another currency which the user wants to have, etc.. At least once a year, each bank should inform the users who charged these services to it, i.e. what fees and exactly must be if this is some basic package it must be known that it covers 10, 20, how many transactions. As far as the second segment of this law is concerned, it's a transfer of accounts. Maybe all of us in some part of our life wanted to move from one bank to another, and then we first went to that bank where we had an account, so of course they weren't very happy that we would close the account in that bank and then we'd be directed so next time, it's crowded, it's kind of going a lot slower than when we want to take some services, when we want to open up means an account and so on. Articles 13 to 16 states that we don't have to go to a bank where we have an account and we don't want to have it anymore but we come to a new bank where we want to open our own account and we give one power of attorney in which we have exactly what we want, and the new bank needs to make a request to our old bank within 2 days, and it has to mean that in the shortest time, our basic accounts are transferred to another bank without having to deal with this new bank because it just doesn't suit us anymore. That was also the situation with teleopers, so something similar is happening right now. What's very important is that it doesn't have these special requirements to each other. What's the third newspaper, it's a category of basic account. So we have one account that the most vulnerable social groups can use. So that's best for our pensioners who simply use that bill to receive their pensions, so they don't do too much business so that all basic services up to 10 of these transactions are free of charge and some additional ones have to be at a much lower price. So if somehow the system today makes us all have to have or at least most of those accounts, it's important that we don't have to pay those extra services that we just don't need. So all credit institutions that have over 15 billion kuna assets must offer that one basic account. As far as the underlying account is concerned, it must include opening and keeping the account, cash, depositing money on the account, raising cash through a payment card, paying via the Internet, even credit transfers, permanent orders, etc. Also, if the banks don't stick to this, the fines are from 50 grand to half a million kuna. Although also a bank if it does not give itself this information document or does not send at least once a year a fee report. We also have the possibility of opening accounts more easily cross-border. And all these things that banks have to do they have to do in a very fast time. We can give one longer but we can't ask them to do it in less than six days which is good again. We see that in the final provisions of this law he enters into force immediately, individual articles come into effect after 6 months, so that banks can adapt to this paper and really respect this law so that citizens can really compare the fees transparently. So the club will support this law. This law is now in the first reading, as I said, and we invite all citizens that if reading these articles of course or in practice have some other situations that are not intended and which make it impossible for them or disturb them, it means in the transparency and comparableity of the fee to let us know so that we can try to do another reading and suggest that they change. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32591	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32592	Dear colleagues, I'm sure you've elaborated this well. None of us are here against transparency, though. But the question is, you say the banks will respect the law. How can you explain as an expert when I'm called by a citizen who has a pension of 2,000 kuna and because of 70 kuna, a debt has been sold to him in a bank, i.e. The Croatian postal bank has closed both its account and its protected account. So we have an executive law that needs to be changed, of course, and we need today to support people who are struggling to change the law. Together, we need to build to serve the development of the economy and our people, our citizens. How can you explain that the banks in this case were above the postal bank law, because the Ministry couldn't pay any pensions at all. And now these people who are three and a half thousand people among whom there are numerous defenders with lower incomes, pensions. Now these people don't have a chance, our fellow citizens even raised their pensions because the Bureau can't pay their pension anywhere. And now they have to reopen the account at another bank, of course. Is that law-abiding? How do you respect banks? Where is the Croatian National Bank? Where has the Croatian National Bank been so far on the transparency of fees? Nowhere. She did not protect interests primarily of national and our fellow citizens' interests, and neither did the economy, where the fact that she's paying about 5 billion kuna who knows where she's going, and here our poor citizens because of 70 kuna put her in a position that I can't raise my pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32593	Thank you. Here's what they're going to try to answer, dear colleague Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32594	Here's my colleague Bulj, I'm always glad you're asking when a law is passed because we've accepted a directive to explain it well and explain it. What I've pointed out here, so it's not only important to pass the law. It is important that he, for all the obligations we impose on someone else, has the prescribed punishment and punishment unless someone adheres to this penalty. And I think it's the key, so just passed the law that someone has to do something wrong. And that's why I stressed here that banks have fines of 50,000 kuna. So only by implementing laws and laws that prescribe penalties for certain obligations can we get to the point where banks don't break laws. So I've now emphasized the great punishments really seem to be a miracle when we impose obligations on someone who protects our citizens, so here I'm going to try and make an effort in the future when we're passing some laws to take a good look at that part. Because everything can sound nice on paper that someone has an obligation, but really, we already have a law to predict how this law should be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32595	Thank you very much. In the name of the Social Democratic Party club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen legislators, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm glad to say a few words about this law. The first and most important thing when you speak on behalf of the club is that we will support the Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Accounts and Access to the Basic Account as a Club, as an idea, as something that will certainly enable consumers, i.e. our citizens to have cheaper and more transparent business in the financial sector. We are certainly in favour of increasing transparency and comparableity of payments related to the payment account, establishing rules for the transfer of the payment account within the Republic of Croatia in order to make it any cheaper, to establish certain rules and to use the basic payment account. And I have to say, we're not satisfied with how the CNB has acted in that segment so far. So we have a monitoring of the entire banking sector and regulators called the Croatian National Bank. But when you have a market or services that are paid at almost 4 billion kuna per year, then they deserve a little more attention and a little more information, education and all that will help the citizens to protect themselves on the market and be, to get better, to be cheaper and easier to do without and passing the law of the CNB had to do a lot more than he had done on the issue and paying bills and opening bills and fees and informing and education of citizens. I will say one more thing that has been imposed here as a topic for me as a representative and we at the SDP Club care that the only major Croatian bank is doing – the Croatian Post Bank and, unlike irresponsible and populist attacks, I will say here that it is obvious that someone has made a mistake in the HPB, that they have understood it and that they have invited all the citizens who are covered by this mistake to remove the error without any cost of allowing them to continue to work with the Croatian bank, of course. So here's what I'm saying here because I heard it in the Croatian Post Office Report and it would be correct if the MPs were to perform here and say that, there was a mistake, the Croatian Post Office is aware of these mistakes and wants to correct it and wants to help people not to get embarrassed anymore and to have those who get rid of it as soon as possible. And we should resist the populist call especially when it comes to a Croatian bank that has a certain value and which I at least hope for for all as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and especially for MPs, it cares about being as good as possible, not for it to be worse. Because that way, when we appear against the only Croatian relevant bank, the larger banks de facto help foreign banks. I don't know if we're aware of that. Probably not. The desire to like someone is doing a lot of damage, and we probably don't even know it when we say it. So once again here as co-owner of the bank, because we represent the Republic of Croatia, I apologize to citizens who have experienced discomfort, they are aware of the mistakes they have made and want to remove it as soon as possible, with as little inconvenience as possible for Croatian citizens. And that's why it's not bad to have a law like this that might prevent us from doing it in the future. And I'm calling for a second reading to be done and this topic. It means that there is not only the comparability of fees by transferring bills for payment and access to the basic account but also the possibility that the payment account can be closed if it is protected and that it continues to function within the bank where it exists, whether or not the bank has sold the claim it had to our fellow citizens that they still have an obligation to continue and maintain that account as long as it is in the function of the protected account and the only account that the citizen has to make certain incomes and that perhaps, in the second reading of the surplus, we have another greater benefit for those who are most vulnerable in our country. What I also want to tell you is that there is certainly a lot of room here for introducing order, banks are doing well, 2016 is as we saw yesterday or yesterday was the press conference of the Banks Association, 5 billion and 100 million kuna gains in 2016, preliminary data, the best year since 2008. Unfortunately, I have to say that in Croatia, interest rates still do not drop and are not at the levels at which they should be because we see from interest revenues that they have fallen but that the cost of interest has dropped by almost 25%, which says that their sources are increasingly lower and more competitive, that historically low interest rates on markets in the world and that our citizens still do not have benefits that could come from low interest. And on that side there is a task of course from the government to work on further reforms and stabilisation of Croatian society to finally feel our citizens, I would say the benefits of these historically low interest rates on world markets. What I think is still too high for the fees charged in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. they are too high and this will certainly lead to citizens getting better acquainted with this and using those who offer lower fees and lower business costs and, for example, to keep accounts, registrations, text notices, Internet banking and other services that banks offer and charge billing fees, to be cheaper and to pay less, means almost 4 billion kuna of income from fees in 2016, i.e. on average, this turns out to be nearly 1000 kuna per capita in the Republic of Croatia. And I think there's plenty of room to deal with the government, to deal with the CNB, and instead of the commission on the past that he's offering us yesterday at the government's session, I'd be happy to say HDZ and MOST that they've created a committee to help citizens in the future when it comes to the financial sector. Let's say that would be very useful, which a lot of citizens touch, but there's not a word or a letter, so we're being brought back by colleagues from MOST and HDZ 70 years ago, we're going to talk about Ustashas and Partisans and Communism and these topics that are important, which are of vital importance, they don't talk about and talk about almost nothing. And on the other hand, it might be more useful if they had spent their energy rather than ingesting and hiring members of the family by state enterprises to offer such a law before, perhaps it would have been simpler to write than to change the statutes in Croatian waters, what the MOST did to hire a godfather or to return one person from the 127 stock market who was accidentally a minister brother from a state-owned company. These things, unfortunately, dominate and deal with HDZ and Most, and they don't do it. And they don't, right now in this part of the sentence, I wanted to touch the subject, but you interrupted me, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: You left the topic of your colleague Maras, as usual.]] So I said that unfortunately in HDZ, they are engaged in the employment of a family in public enterprises, that in the Most, they are engaged in changing the statutes in Croatian waters in order to hire a godfather without dealing with such useful things as the Bill on Comparability of Compensation, the transfer of payment bills and access to a basic account that would help Croatian citizens to live better, that they have lower costs and that is the biggest problem today in the Republic of Croatia, which, unfortunately, instead of dealing with issues that help citizens, the coalition in power is dealing with the spoil distribution of the authorities that it has obviously experienced and which will obviously consume in the coming period. Thank you very much, here we will support the law, so that sometimes the opposition does not seem to support quality proposals, we think that this is a quality proposal and we think that until the second reading should be dealt with in particular, I said this part of the closure of accounts for those most needed to include in the law that this payment bill that serves people as a basic means of survival, i.e. they only have those incomes, they are protected from incomes, that they cannot be easily closed, that the bank is obliged to keep it while it is in that account-protected status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32597	Thank you, we have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32598	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, it is beautiful that your concern about the only remaining Croatian bank if we exclude HBOR. But then I'm surprised that in 2013, the government of Zoran Milanovic wanted to sell the bank as a whole, that they had given themselves up, they were committed as investors of Erste Bank and OTP Bank, allegedly offering some 130m euros. So when it gave up in the moments when the HPB was dealing with losses, which was really amazing in 2015, and at the very beginning of the same government, Minister of Finance Lalovac suggested that one part of the bank be sold, that it be privatised, or as it is feminised to say capitalise. And most importantly, media news also appeared that this privatisation is again meant to be carried out in a way that people who somehow don't deserve it because just acquiring their property is suspicious, so first of all tycoons. Several known HDZ names have also been mentioned which have been in the business of conversion and privatisation for more than 2 decades. So now I want to know why you did not represent Croatia's interests or Croatian citizens in this same way, or if the Croatian Post Bank was doing such a bad business. And I'm also wondering if maybe this impact that is now coming is the same as the one that's on the trail of the same bank that might be privatized so that Croatia will end up without a single commercial bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32599	The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32600	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, you've given your question and part of the answer. So it was a devastated bank that was smudged by the government in 2007 to 2011, I speak figuratively. It's not personal, but since they've held the administration that's now burdened with criminal prosecutions, indictments, etc. for the big criminal acts that were going on in that bank during that period. That bank was really devastated and poorly run. I cannot take responsibility for HDZ and its actions from 2007 to 2011 The idea was then to place the bank on the market, but I'm proud that I didn't vote for the sale and it didn't give up but that the offers that were on the table were rejected, because as a government, we estimated that the bank had more potential to remain in Croatian ownership, to capitalise it, to stand behind it, to give DAV some money, to see that the bank could be based and stand on its own feet. So I'm proud of that decision you said from the year 2012 or the 13th. I think it was the end of 2012 when we decided that we would not sell the only remaining Croatian bank, but we would go exactly the opposite way to make the bank strong and that today, after only three, four years of successful business, the bank recorded recordable high profits. 180 million kunas, never had that bank in history, and it shows that responsible management and when you know what you want can do a good job. And I would like to protect that bank, and once again I will tell the representatives that because of the mistake made by someone there does not diminish the value of that bank, because I want Croatia to still have one strong bank in its possession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32601	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32602	Mr. Maras, you're wrong. You wanted to sell the bank. You're cheating on the public. Under public pressure not to lose one single bank you brought her to the brink of selling. Well, everyone knows that, you lie and deceive the public by blaming someone who has no guilt. Do you know how to hire at the Post Office in local offices? I can tell you about that for half an hour, only at local level in Sinj. Often according to the political key. Even when budgeting, it is influenced to employ certain people in that bank. The Croatian Post Bank must be the Croatian National Bank, it must be a national bank as its name and speaks and well-controlled, not that this is happening. Because I don't know either, and you hope to make a right mistake and our fellow citizens won't have to pay for it. But the fact that it happened and the fact that it was told in public that it was going to be rectified. That's what the media published. Is that meant to ruin that last bank? Or maybe there's talk in Peppermint about destroying that bank where it all started and where it's being controlled. And certain tycoons have a good pasture over it. Whether they are related to HDZ or SDP would be able to talk about it. Because these tycoons have no party, no faith, no nation. These are criminals, and together we must protect the Croatian postal bank and monetary policy and our poverty, not deceive the public with hundreds of topics and lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32603	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32604	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, I've already learned that you know everything about everything. Here's even these students who are looking at you now, look well, this is a representative who knows all about Mr. Miro Bulj. But you went one more step further, you know what I was thinking. That's amazing. You know what I thought three years ago. You're a miracle! You not only know all about all the topics, but you know what any of us are thinking. Here's Mrs. Macar, Mrs. Pusic, what she's looking at on her laptop right now, you know what she's thinking. Mr. Bull's incredible ability! I think Mr. Bull needs to get on Wikipedia and we need to protect him. There aren't too many people like that in the world. He needs to be protected because he can perceive any one of us who thought what he meant, not now, but three years ago. Now, of course, I'm joking a little bit, but Mr. Bull doesn't know what we were thinking. I'll tell you what I thought. I was thinking exactly what I said, I don't want to sell that bank. That's how I voted in government. Do you want me to bring you the record? You'll see Maras voted against. Not me, but all my 20 colleagues at the government and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic at the time. We didn't want to sell the bank. And I said who I consider to be responsible and I don't understand why you deny it when all of Croatia knows it because there are criminal proceedings before the Croatian courts for those who brought the bank into this situation in 2007 to 2011. So why are you closing your eyes before that, Mr. Bull? These are your coalition partners? Maybe that's why? Maybe you can't, maybe you're on the click. Maybe you should vote with them? Maybe you're very valuable, so you're trying to turn them hard? Anything's possible. I don't know what your motives are, and I don't know what you're thinking in your head, but I know what we've been doing and what makes that bank stand and I'd like it to be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32605	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HNS, HSU, the distinguished representative of Bozica Makar. Here you go. I'd pray you don't throw yourself at each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32606	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the motionary from the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is also the proposal for a law on the comparability of fees, the transfer of bills for payment and access to the basic account, which is about harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU. It is the EU's 92 Directive of 17 September 2014. The deadline was to apply all EU members within two years. Therefore, the deadline expired in 2016 in September. It would have been better if we had that law last year, but it's never too late for good things. And I think it's this law that's good, that's this bill that's right in front of us. Because the objectives set out in the EU Directive are to increase the transparency and comparability of fees, set up rules for the transfer of accounts, facilitate cross-border opening of accounts and set up rules for the opening and use of the basic account. This way when we read it, we'd find ourselves in a situation as many times as when we were in a bank. When we came to the bank and they charged us a fee and they tried to explain to us what they actually charged us I think it's rare that any of us knew what they were paying for. We've mostly accepted that because it's already been removed from our accounts. They explained to us you were charged that fee, that fee, but we got out of the bank again, we knew that we had less money because we were taken off for those fees we used. But we didn't understand much. Therefore, it is good that this law defines the concepts which will apply to all banks to which they will be used to provide certain services, so that we, as consumers or users of those services, could actually be able to compare the amount of these services, these fees and to know what is paid. And before we commit ourselves to any offer, contract or anything else, we need to get an information document from the bank. This document must be clear, reviewed, summarised and precisely apply to the terms set out in Article 3 of this proposal. It is further stated that this document must contain 10 to 20 of the most common services as the most representative which consumers use, which will be determined by sublegal regulations, i.e. by the CNB. What kind of favors are these? Well, there are those that must be minimally provided by the basic account. However, it would be good if there were others, we heard from the debates, which are actually the fees paid by banks and what is the amount of those fees. The amount of compensation 4 billion a year is really a lot. However, if we went into the debate now, it would be out of the box, but if the debate is necessary, it is necessary. Because it's too much for consumers to know what they're paying for. In particular, early repayment of the loan was highlighted, and exit fees and so on. It's really personal and we at the club think it's unnecessary, or too high for such a favor. Because we already paid a part of the interest to use the loan, we paid the principal, and now if we want something more come on, there's a cost but it's really some minimum minimum, not those fees that are charged. It's good that at least once a year we're going to have to get information from the bank where everything we've paid that bank over the year will be systemized. We've heard that for every resident, not every account user turns out to be more than 1,000 kuna per year on average. We know that some have no, some have more, so the account is far more for some users of 1000 kuna fees. So, not only interest, but compensation. In addition, this information form will include all over-account interest, so we will know exactly what was downloaded from our account and that information will be delivered to us in paper form or as we ask in the bank whether by email, but it must be delivered free of charge. The CNB will publish on its web pages a combination of these services, although the most representative 10 to 20 will be able to decide, so we will be able to see how much the bank charges. That there'll be links to it from the bank's side will be and it's okay. Everyone will probably find someone who has a computer so they can, because we know that we also have a population that isn't used by computers, so they'll be a little harder to handle but they'll go to the office, so I guess they'll be able to get real and full information even though every bank when we get into it is the best one and it has the best conditions, the lowest fees and the most accessible ones. So I believe that people will manage in other ways. The law also lists new rules for the transfer of payment accounts. This is precisely why we will have the opportunity to compare some fees and see that our bank charges a little more than others or for some other reason we will no longer have to use the counter or our personal banker to explain what is the reason we want to leave their bank, or to move with our basic account to another bank, we are already giving power to that bank or to the payment service provider that we have chosen on the basis of the knowledge that it provides us with the most favourable conditions. It is governed by this law and the right to open and use a basic account for all EU citizens under equal conditions, which is also good and it is determined that all those institutions whose total property is more than 15 billion kuna must do. Here is the Croatian Post Bank, which has 18.4 billion assets. I would agree here with colleagues who listed the security that should exist in protected accounts, which is that it must not happen when a basic account is closed, that parallel to that is closed and a protected account is then going to happen to us just like this and similar things that happened in this case. So it might be a good idea to think about it a little bit, no matter how many things can't be solved by this law, but by other laws. What actually represents the basic account we have heard here and from the promoters that these are actually our current accounts and giro accounts that provide the most basic services, which is opening and running, depositing money, raising cash, card payment, Internet banking, permanent accounts and credit transfers. Furthermore, it is not possible to negotiate an overrun under this basic account, but the bank can grant a misdemeanour that is the discretionary law of the bank, and special packages will be negotiated for the overruns agreed, and then it is possible to transfer those funds there, so that we have again. But when it's agreed, then it has to be secured mostly by the debtor or by the exchange, depending on what the bank is looking for, or by some other instrument of insurance. Furthermore, this law provides for more favourable conditions for a particularly sensitive consumer group. I personally consider it a good way for us in the club to help this endangered group of users, including users of guaranteed minimum fees, remuneration for personal needs of users of accommodation, fees for regular study, personal disability, compensation for assistance and care and employment benefits. Thus, for these users other than the more favourable one, the minimum prices and basic account charges if the bank can already charge a maximum of up to 0.13% of the average salary of between 7 and 7 and a half kuna. And they will all have free 10 national transactions per month, so for the settlement of those utility and all other services that they pay from that account, and so far they have to pay compensation. There's a lot more that isn't regulated by this law. As I have pointed out, it would be good if other laws were regulated, but the HNS club, HSU, will support this bill in the first reading because we believe it ensures greater consumer rights and greater transparency for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32607	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32608	Thank you very much. Here I am talking about fees that, somewhere around 5 billion kuna per year, which were non-transparent and certainly such laws improve at least this transparency, that our citizens, business entities, natural and legal persons can be transparent and that banks are not above the law as they were in this case that I was talking about in our state bank, i.e. in the Croatian postal bank. And I hope that this is really no longer going to be repeated in any bank because this is a great pity for our citizens, not for the intention of harming this Croatian bank that needs to be further upgraded because it would need the essence of this amount of 4.6 billion kuna that should have been invested in the economy and in solving a number of other problems in Croatian society. Unfortunately, who knows where they're going, they go to foreign banks, but this is now the consequence of how Croatian banks are privatised and how they went into foreign hands. But it's really about five billion kunas, something less. It means a huge amount. You say there will be a CNB on the website there will be all these fees that we have, as Bunjac said before, about 400. In fact, it's unknown. The big question is what has been done so far by the Croatian National Bank not only on compensation but also on interest. Because the bank, which is examples from another EU country, was much less interest for citizens, natural and legal persons in that country, in the country of origin than in Croatia. That was with 3% was in countries where it came from. We were able to cross and 12, 13%, so it was all about the burden of our citizens, i.e. that idea of creating a free Croatian state, the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. Unfortunately, the policies that have been in our citizens over the past 20 years have broken out that wallet with the Croatian Kun out of their pockets and socks, we are said to have put money out of their socks, the people have exhausted everything. We see that we are no longer allowed to take away from the EU directives, nor to mention the CNB, not monetary policy, but the CNB, and they even tried how much sovereignty they wanted to take away from us here the body that is essentially in this way if we act as previous parliaments regardless of which government was, left, right, that this Parliament then doesn't make any sense, is it, in fact, that we lost the sovereign and that part of the state's part of the Republic of Croatia. We must protect our citizens from let's say the alleged signs "as a legitimate robbery" of a Croatian citizen in the interest of foreign banks and surely that the HPB must be much stronger and much better and the whole society should work on it. Once again, all that is transparent is well, but unfortunately now that the money has been drawn the CNB will put a list of all fees. Whether it is too late or not, we should believe and move forward that it is not too late that Croatian society will rise to the fact that the country will not be burned, that our two-thirds of Croatian territory will not be empty until these five billion, until now it has not gone transparently to the bankers. That is why I call on you from the Ministry of Finance as well as the entire government and us in Parliament to protect Croatians, not only with EU directives, but to protect Croatian national interests in this matter, Croatian citizens and Croatian legal and physical entities. I say again, five billion kunas went who knows where, through reminders, fees, interest. Only for these unknown fees 4.6 billion kuna, which is saddened by the banks that are known to have been privatised at the expense of the citizens, when the citizens have capitalized on these Croatian banks then have been sold for double and more, less. I call on the ministry to continue to maintain financial stability and to preserve Croatian citizens from the robbery that was through these fees and not only these directives, but otherwise Croatian policies that must be sovereign policies, especially in terms of finance and monetary policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32609	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32610	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This law is a alignment with the draft law with EU legislation. The bill itself goes hand in hand to its user, or to the consumer himself, and it is good that the user will receive the information and documents he needs or offers and a framework contract in order to have insight in time and to decide whose service he will use. I also consider the good and the report that he will have so that at any time he can decide whether or not the fees he really wants are paid and agreed and can be transferred to another service. This is a quality and good law that we will support, but what I want to say is that this law, which is aimed at a natural person, is therefore for citizens, and also for legal persons, therefore, companies also pay compensation for this service. And this way I ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to regulate this situation, and given that for certain entrepreneurs, this fee amounts to tens of thousands of kuna, and I believe that if we regulate this situation, it is much better for the entrepreneur to spend, or to open a new job than to leave it to foreign companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32611	Thank you. Next up for debate is Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And now we have the final review of the esteemed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Željko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to begin by thanking everyone, all the clubs and individual debates for the really constructive discussions and the support that you have expressed in your discussions on this law. From all the debates is visible, and from our room experiences I would tell it clear to everyone that this area needs to be arranged, that in this part there is a significant space for improving and transparency and arrangements and facilitating business for all of us who are users of the payment account. So we are aware ourselves that we are facing non-transparency in the area of the fees that banks charge, the amounts they charge for them. It is difficult to understand and understand what these fees are, their amounts to compare them with each other, and therefore this law here will significantly improve, will be defined as a minimum. a maximum of 20 representative fees to be charged by banks. We will all be able to compare those fees in one place, their height, and see where they are most favourable. The same important fact that the law adopts is that, once a year or at least once a year, banks will send a notice to all payment account users of all fees and any costs charged to its user by each account. Clearly, and just switching accounts that seem much simpler and easier for the user. So it's enough to go to the recipient's bank, give the authority to transfer the account to the new bank, and the recipient's bank is doing all the more business with the bank from which the account is transferred. This will contribute to the significant improvement of the market, facilitating all users of banking services, all users and account holders and all of us as consumers. We will consider all the comments that are made during today's debate and which eventually arrive at the time of the final draft of the law. And here we go. I'll see you at the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32613	Thank you very much. We have another replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32614	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would like to ask one more question about the possibility of amending this law, which is who allows banks to offer loans to non-legislators on pillars and on tram stations that cross one-third of the income, i.e. savings, or employees of pensioners, and how the fees are accounted for because we see therefore that loans and repurchase banks, whether this law can also achieve the regulation of that market because it is obvious that they have been done with illegal actions. We can now open the Internet and find at least 20 such banks that give credits and over half of the receipts, which give credit to and regardless of blacklists, blocked accounts, everything else, who collects those fees, which employees, for whose benefit. And I would like you to also answer that question by the second reading when our Governor Vujcic does not want to answer us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32615	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and I'll take a few minutes off, so by 12:00, when it's usually going to be a vote. So I'll see you at 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-03-0.u32616	The following is the Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Account and Access to Basic Account, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 83. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Accounts and Access to the Basic Account is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of 124 votes in favour, 1 abstention and no vote against, we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We will continue the session on Wednesday, 8 March at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the draft law amending and supplementing the Hunting Law. Thank you and have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 12.15 hours. Dear MPs and MPs, we continue to hold the plenary session. First I congratulate Women's Day on all MPs, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I see there's a press conference going on. Representative Josko Klisovic.
