ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55602	Thank you President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA to discuss the status of debtors in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55603	You got it. Debtant status? You may, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55604	I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the state of Croatian health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55605	Is anyone else picking up? If not, and I'm sorry, Maria Puh, HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55606	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club on the development of continental tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55607	You got it. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55608	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55609	You got it. Kola Jovanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55610	On behalf of the SDP Club on the current situation in Croatian health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55611	You got it. Then we have a break by 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA and the Honorable Ivan Willibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55613	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I took this break to talk about the difficult position of debtors in the Republic of Croatia. That this position is difficult is nothing new, but today I will talk about one segment that has not received enough public attention. It's about reselling debts from our citizens. We know that the Executive Act is bad and that it allows many irregularities, even worse when without your knowledge and permission someone sells your debt for a fraction of the price to an agency to collect claims, and then you suffer from a day and night terror. Here, I'd like to share just a few experiences with our citizens. "I am regularly stripped of my 1st pension and they keep calling every month around the 15th because he hasn't sat down their money yet." "I have a pension of 1400 kuna, I pay 480." "The sick, surgeryd tumor, I go to chemotherapy, they all know and they keep calling every month and checking to see if they can pay more." "They're calling all night until I hear from you, I'm going crazy." Then let's say Mr. Martinović's experience "EOS Matrix sends to the firm to complete, i.e. to get off his salary for the debt. They do not write to whom the debt is due, nor the amount, nor anything, but warns the employer that it will be completed if it is not done as they have written." The experience of Mrs. Žnjidarić is being arranged, EOS Matrix, "The Masters call my neighbor, who is 80 years old, barely walking and carrying their number with me to contact them." "They have charged another 22,000 kuna of interest on 20 thousand kunas for Diners." Or let's say Mr. Sekulić's experience, EOS Matrix, legal cameras, "The long Tele2 of 150 kn came through them with the costs of lawyers at 1250 kuna in a few months and grew every day until I paid for it." Or say Mrs Markanovic's experience, "They call 5 thousand times a day, if they don't get us, they call us neighbors, relatives, parents, at 6am at 9pm." "If one doesn't get paid, they go to another spouse, it's terrible what they do." Here's another, last experience I'm going to share, Mr. Hendija, "B2 capital, father has experience with them, PBZ sold the claim and these harass him every day. They call it a mass of times until they answer, they call it neighbours." This is terrible what's happening, it's a violation of human rights, this is unacceptable. In order to put an end to this, the Living Wall states in the procedure of the Debt Protection Act in special cases of transfer demand. This law is a lex specialis compared to the Law on Mandatory Relations. There's a new practice in there. So if the believer would like to hand over the debt to the debtors to the new believer first, a notice must be sent to the debtor that he intends to do so. Then he must be offered the first right to buy the debt for that fraction. If the debtor doesn't want it, he can choose whether he wants to, whether he wants to transfer that debt to a new believer or wants to stay with an old believer. If, however, following the consent of the debtor, the transfer of the debt to the new believer in that case, a second notification must be sent when and in what amount such activity has been made. It's also one of the irregularities, one hole they've used so far. In addition to these newspapers, there are more, I don't catch up with them at the break to explain everything, we're through a public debate. What is certainly very important to say is that this terror, which I spoke of earlier, stands in Article 12, in the case of the transfer of demand from the old to the new believer, the new believer, is generally these agencies that bought the debts for the change, so they must not contact the debtor in the evening and night hours and during the holidays, contact the debtor in the evening and night hours and during the holidays, contact the debtor at his workplace, contact the family members of the debtors in relation to the demand. If the debtor is also informed that the debtor has a valid authority, as a rule the new believer must contact only the authority rather than disturb the debtor by frequent phone calls or electronic communication. And what has often been a threat to the debtor is not to be threatened in any way. It's time to do a human rights violation, it's time to bring terror upon our citizens. This law covers and solves only one segment of the executive problem, which is huge and which is slowly growing political will in Croatia to be permanently solved. There, the law enforcement agencies will no longer sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55614	Thank you, thank you. We are going to another debate, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, on behalf of the Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55615	Thank you, Mr. President. A comment is needed due to yesterday's rain by all 38,000 nurses who expected a solution to their status from the current minister. Most of you probably heard of Flores Nightingale. Few of you know that entering the British Parliament are four bi. One Nelson as leader, one Shakespeare, one Newton and one not British queen, but Flores Nightingale. So this is an example of how you should stick to some values in society. And where are we? As Croatia supports those who today, 38 thousand of them will sacrifice their working day in their jobs by helping patients because they account for more than half of the total number of healthcare professionals. It is a huge number, but it should also be known that 38 thousand of them, even 1800, have gone back 5 years from Croatia and are currently missing them to meet all health needs of more than 12 thousand. So yesterday a thematic session was called on the position of the sisterhood in the Republic of Croatia and by not arriving the minister showed his concern and indolence after waiting for him decently for 20 minutes, he did not come down and turn around and come to an arranged session with his associates and announced. At a session where more than 30 were prominent than the medical profession, members of the sister's chamber, sister's union, medical schools, universities, medical schools, nurses' associations, nurses' organisations, patronages, all those who actually care about how to help and raise the status of nurses in Croatia. And it's about the important subject, and in order for the sisterhood to be recognised as a profession, it takes a great deal of engagement for all of us. No matter what party or personal preference. A multi-year complex problem in the field of basic education of nurses from the lack of understanding of the sisterhood as an independent profession of organisational inconsistency with the needs of healthcare and education levels, as well as the equalisation of different levels of education, the problem of higher education and the lack of compliance with EU legislation, is a problem that has existed for more than ten years and the last 5 years no shift has been made in Croatia. So, the problem is employment, the problem is working conditions, inadequate communication with different health system stakeholders, and ultimately the departure of a large number of nurses from the Republic of Croatia due to job-seeking in the EU Member States, and these were the reasons for calling this thematic session. In addition, it should be noted that several years of suspension of the material rights of nurses, retrogradely, nurses are faced with a reduction in income due to the abolition of the coefficient, the abolition of work experience supplements, the failure to pay overtime, inadequately paid captains, the failure of transport costs, the reduction of the grounds for jubilee awards, the ban on employment in public services and the lack of them, which eventually resulted in a reduction in salaries and up to 30% of those salaries that were at the level of 10 years ago. In addition to all of these abolished material rights of nurses, there are other problems facing nurses on a daily basis and leading to the very edge of endurance in the process of work. Therefore, it is known that the lack of nurses is becoming a growing problem and all of this is reflected in the quality of health care. Therefore, the question is rightly raised whether the current number of nurses can, under difficult working conditions, withstand all employers' demands and adequately meet the quality of healthcare. To conclude, there is no other profession that is as important and so unrecognized and marginalized as nurses or sisterhood. The real dimension of problems such as educational, status and professional, many are not known, they are self-secretly doing their job, but we are the ones who need to help their problems begin to solve themselves. New foundations and content are needed and a new model of sisterhood management. What should we do? It is necessary to fight equality in education and to ensure the full vertical of education. Nurses as subjects as subjects must influence the process of changing culture and ethics of a nurse’s education which strengthens the human and ethical dimension of the sister and sisterhood as a special health profession. However, this process of searching for fear of the sisterhood will begin when negative and undesirable aspects and consequences of inappropriate education that conditions certain positions and marginalised hospital influence within the profession and the public are recognized and they become someone we really appreciate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55616	Thank you. You were talking about the thematic session here, weren't you? Was there a quorum in that session?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55617	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55618	No, no, I'm asking you, was there a quorum? Because I was informed that a session was called past the procedure, that there was no quorum, that there were no materials and that simply people had not come to the session for that reason. So, that it was not called in accordance with the rules that exist in the Croatian Parliament, that people were not informed about what they were actually going to talk about because no material as chairman of the board was delivered. Is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55619	I can inform you that those who have told you this, obviously deceived you, the material of the sister union in particular was delivered, the call as well as any thematic session was sent in time, informed at the previous session and they all arrived on time. The members of the position, members of the HDZ, did not come after they saw that the minister had not arrived. All the other board members have come...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55620	I'm asking if there was a quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55621	The session was interrupted because the minister didn't come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55622	.../Intruder President: And was there a quorum?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55623	Of course not when the HDZ members who are members of the board didn't show up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55624	So there was no quorum. Well, I ask you, however, that since you were talking about the board, it would be correct to report all the elements of what happened yesterday because obviously we have a problem with these thematic sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55625	Apparently it's forbidden for HDZ members... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55626	Well, don't say it now, which is allowed and forbidden, I tell you you didn't have a quorum, you performed here as someone who called the minister because he didn't come, and apparently most of the MPs didn't come. So, that's what we have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55627	.../Strenja-Linić: For the first time, members of HDZ did not come to the thematic session./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55628	Well, it's not just members of the HDZ, they don't do most of it alone, you know that very well. There's no replica, you can't replicate. No replica, this is a five-minute break show, you can't replicate to me. Let's move on, the third is a respected representative of the Maria Puh on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55629	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, today in my speech I would like to look back on our development of continental tourism and the direction continental tourism is taking. In fact, we all had the opportunity to see the promotional video of the Croatian Tourist Board, which was presented in London the other day and I definitely welcome the production of such a video that presents Croatia as a tourist destination and I definitely support the fact that in the making of the video celebrities on world scale, because every promotion of Croatia is a step more in attracting tourists and ultimately a step more towards better results. But looking at the video, I am saddened and concerned by one fact, which is that for some reason, it is once again left out a whole series of features of continental Croatia. Looking at the video in some way it can be interpreted that Croatia is up to Zagreb and that there is nothing further north than Zagreb in our tourist offer, as well as in our Croatia. A rich area north of Zagreb is an area rich in cultural heritage from which it is a large part of the cultural heritage on UNESCO's list of protected cultural heritage. Many of the natural beauty of Lonjsko polje, Drava, Danube. Aren't they all worth enough to get a second in the video? One gastro offers that part of Croatia has an offer where we definitely envy many destinations and the very thought of the Zagorje scrutkles, on the well, on the međimurje movement, mills is something that attracts tourists again and brings us back constantly. Did they not deserve one second in the promotional video of the Croatian Tourist Board? Events held in this area that have long attracted visitors outside Croatia, such as Spaincirfest, who apparently won the award this year on tourism days as a tourist event of the year. Well, after all, and my Zagorje, my fairy tale in the palm of my hand, isn't all that enough to be part of the united tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia? I find it simply embarrassing that Croatia is not proud of the world-renowned museum of the Krapina Neanderthal, the national shrine of Marija Bistrica, which is also the treasure of tradition and heritage that it recognized and recognised even UNESCO. We have the most famous village in the world of Kumrovec coming to visit people from a far, far away world. The spas that we unfortunately still have for now are huge, insufficiently exploited by the potential of health tourism. Aren't they attractive enough and worthy of any second in a video that presents Croatian tourism. Are you worth the county, the cities and the municipalities less? If their efforts in the development of tourism are worth less, and I assure you that the efforts in the development of tourism in this area are remarkable. After all, is tourism on the continent worth less? No, and that shows the results, the results from month to month, year to year are getting brighter and better. Between January and October of this year, 16% more overnight stays were reached on the continent than in the past year, with the highest nights, the increase in overnight stays being achieved in the Karlova County and the Krapina-Zagorje County. Is this how we're going to develop tourism 365? Is this the direction of a uniform approach to Croatia's tourist offer? Is this how we want to present Croatia as a unique tourist destination? I'm afraid not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55630	The fourth club of representatives is the Croatian Democratic Community and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55631	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Somehow in this House of Highs, it's hard to behave the way anyone will. However, in no segment of our life anyone can behave however he wills, or someone has prescribed rules for him to behave, and someone has adopted those rules. So in this House of Commons we adopted a Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure that was inherited by the previous parliamentary majority that we disagreed with on some things, etc. That's irrelevant. But he's here and we have to work on him. And one question from a colleague and a colleague to all of us. Whether the President of the Parliament can call a session of the Parliament and place a agenda item for which he has not received materials from the proposings regardless of whether it is the Government, whether it is a representative, whether it is someone else. He can't. Is the chairman of the board able to call the committee's meeting without any material being prepared and to forward the materials to someone else? So much for that. We can invent, parade, do what we want, but the rules we have to stick to in life. Because if we don't stick to the bad rules, that leads us to anarchy. So much for the thematic sessions and so much for calling. The question would've been, if it hadn't been for that verbal incident case today, that's how it was discussed. But the question to all of us is whether we will stick to the rules that we have brought here ourselves. I agree with them or disagree with them or we'll make an anarchy in this House, that's one thing. Second. I would very much like to put all my debates in the past, ho years and as a minister and ruling and opposition representative like this, so that we can see who is consistent, who is not consistent. One question. How much really is Croatian healthcare due today? The commitments have been made and the obligations of Croatian health care have been made. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, look at the budget rebalance in 2000, look at the budget rebalance in 2004, look at the budget rebalance in 2012, and look at this budget rebalance today. And you know what the only link between all these budgets is? That these budget rebalances, regardless of which political option I set out in 2000, are one common issue of all these budgets is that the budget rebalance provides a billion and more kunas for the recovery of debt in health. So it's a fact that we simply can't escape. And now the question is whether today, when we discuss this budget rebalancing, we're going to open the question, we're going to talk critically about it, and we're going to just say something that's true. I remember when my colleague suggested, I think my colleague Varga suggested that the treasure be singled out, out of the treasury, out of health care, and that all the problems would be solved. Then we, who are a little closer to the waist of finance, said that in principle they won't solve anything because the treasure has nothing to do with what's real... Health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you today, when you look at HZZO's financial report and look at the 2010 budget report, you will see that this report is far, far more transparent than it is today. And something that's a fact and what's true. Whether we're political, all of us regardless, that's why I've talked about years, when the 2 mandates were in power of the SDP, twice HDZ, with different coalitions behind the Living Wall practically no one participated in those coalitions. To acknowledge to yourself the fact, either someone will make reforms in health or if we want to make health care without debts, then it is 0.5% of GDP or 0.5% of the general government budget deficit. That's a fact. A fact we can't escape from. Because if we don't, the budget rebalance of some new next government in three years, the first one will be identical. I'm telling you, take your colleagues and colleagues, 2008. 11, 12 months of copy paste today, billions of 200 million for health care, we'll resuscitate it, there'll be no debts. Remember, in 2012, our colleague Linic, we're going to give this up, we're going to take care of two billion county hospitals at the end of the term, and not the liabilities charged in healthcare are 2.5 billion kuna. These are facts, these are figures and these figures can be politicized as much as they want, but they can't be overwritten, because eventually they will pay for it again by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55632	Thank you. We are going to the last debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55633	Thank you very much, President. So, the topic is the current situation in healthcare and the inability of the current minister to solve problems, but here at first I have to stand in the defenses of Ines Strenja Linic, so, colleagues and colleagues, this is an invitation for a session. This is one material, this is another material, this is third material. If that's not enough to prepare a session of the Health and Social Policy Committee, I don't know what it is. The session was prepared, they got the materials, we could get quality involved in the debate, that the minister in charge came. However, the competent minister boasts here with his operational procedures, rather than boasting of the successes and reforms he has spent at the ministry in the portfolio since he led it. So his job is no longer to operate on tumors. If he thinks he's a better operator than a minister, he'll go to surgery. There are many doctors in HDZ, many of them I know, good managers who could run the Ministry of Health, for the benefit of all health employees, and medical resources, as counterpart Linic said, who has almost 39,000 and who yesterday Mr. Minister insulted as no one in the history of the sorority. So, not to come to the session, not to say how he sees a solution to the problem of the sorority is something that has certainly not happened in Croatian health history. And the health situation is bad, bad because the debts are piling up, bad because my colleague Shuker is a lot of people than in 2015 when my colleague Varga finished his term, then there were 400,000 people on the waiting lists. Today is a million and 200000. There are three times more people on the waiting lists, debts are enormously increased. The debt, i.e. the total debt, you asked, amounts to 8 billion and 200 million kuna. The income brings 3.9 billion, the debt that needs to be paid now, and the total of 8 billion. At the same time, what my colleague Schuker wants to reduce is, therefore, under the obligation of the Health Insurance Act, the state must pay the health care of 4.2 billion kuna. He's been paying for 2.5 years. So it's a mistake and former governments. But he's in HDZ power now. So if he wants to meet his legal obligations and the council passed that law, then he is obliged to pay into the Ministry of Health, HZZO, 4.2 billion, not 2.5 billion. So that's a billion and 700 million kunas less. So let's multiply it by 4 and we'll get to 8.2 billion. The new budget, therefore, is soon to be rebalanced, so nothing has changed and 2.5 billion remain. Here you go, sir. There's no finance minister. I'll tell him later. What I particularly want to say is that on several occasions I have referred parliamentary questions to the Minister of Health, offered solutions, pointed to problems, however, none of which he is worthy to do. So the minister doesn't really understand what it means to manage the health system. For him is the concept of cost-effectiveness "Spanish Village", access to health services he does not understand at all, the quality of health outcomes for him does not exist,... He doesn't even know what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, he's just saying, give me the money, and as the money is deployed, no reform in this mandate has been made. My colleagues and colleagues, health is the greatest fortune. The HDZ programme said that health will be more accessible, more comprehensive in this term, that there will be no increase in the price of supplementary health insurance, and everything is now being done by Minister Kujundzic, therefore, he cheats on all Croatian citizens and so does HDZ voters. Do you know that the waiting list for cardiovascular procedures is increasing every day? If it shrinks, why does it shrink? Because the patients waiting for the procedure die, they don't welcome the order. And why Minister Kujundzic doesn't do anything. Here, he's operating on the biggest tumors, he says. So why not do something to make sure that Croatian heart surgery is as accessible as possible and that they live longer, healthier and better quality. And I hope Prime Minister Plenkovic asks him to apologize to all the nurses and technicians he deeply offended yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55634	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Branko Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55635	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure, namely if the thematic session of the Committee is called and that Committee does not have its Rules of Procedure, shall apply to the work of the Committee the sub-region of the Rules of Procedure at the plenary session. This means that if the Government is not a proposing, if the proposer of an act at some thematic session is an individual association, representatives or other authorised promoter, then it is correct if it is called for, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure it is correct to invite a representative of the Ministry to make the ministry manifest and state the position of the Government. And then if such a memo is not answered by the minister and does not come then colleague Ines Strenja-Linic is right. In this case, calling someone who did not come and had no opportunity to show up in time is not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55636	Thank you, just a little bit. So I have another injury to my colleague Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure. So, we're not going to solve this right now, so obviously there's a certain problem with calling thematic sessions, we're going to have to... So we're going to have to do these certain procedures so that these situations don't repeat themselves, see under what conditions and how the sessions, thematic sessions will be held. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, yeah, well, not now, we can't do that now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I will ask for further explanations and then we will make certain procedures all together so that the thematic sessions are made and organised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and some good rules. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55637	Well, Article 238 was injured because what the esteemed president of the HDZ Club is now quoting is not standing. Therefore, Article 181 of the President of the Assembly delivers the reports received by the working bodies to the legislator and to the representatives. So let's people, let's be serious and let's not do one thing, and you certainly agree with me, bizarrely, absurdly, blatantly, incorrectly acting as a minister, defending the nonexistent articles of the Rules of Procedure. The minister made a mistake, and he needs to apologize, he doesn't have to apologize to me, he needs to apologize to all the nurses and all the members of the Health and Social Policy Committee. He didn't have to come, he could send a secretary of state, an assistant, there are thank God in the Ministry of Health enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55638	Bacic did not talk about the minister's behaviour or the minister's responsibility but talked about the way the thematic session is called, and we have some obvious inconsistencies because there are certain failures in the procedure itself and in the rules that we have not clearly defined when it comes to the thematic sessions. But I'd like to finish it now, and we'll talk about it on another occasion. I saw two hands, my colleague Sincic, a colleague of Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55640	Thank you President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA to discuss the status of debtors in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55641	You got it. Debtant status? You may, colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55642	I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the state of Croatian health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55643	Is anyone else picking up? If not, and I'm sorry, Maria Puh, HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55644	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club on the development of continental tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55645	You got it. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55646	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55647	You got it. Kola Jovanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55648	On behalf of the SDP Club on the current situation in Croatian health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55649	You got it. Then we have a break by 9.45. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA and the Honorable Ivan Willibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55651	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I took this break to talk about the difficult position of debtors in the Republic of Croatia. That this position is difficult is nothing new, but today I will talk about one segment that has not received enough public attention. It's about reselling debts from our citizens. We know that the Executive Act is bad and that it allows many irregularities, even worse when without your knowledge and permission someone sells your debt for a fraction of the price to an agency to collect claims, and then you suffer from a day and night terror. Here, I'd like to share just a few experiences with our citizens. "I am regularly stripped of my 1st pension and they keep calling every month around the 15th because he hasn't sat down their money yet." "I have a pension of 1400 kuna, I pay 480." "The sick, surgeryd tumor, I go to chemotherapy, they all know and they keep calling every month and checking to see if they can pay more." "They're calling all night until I hear from you, I'm going crazy." Then let's say Mr. Martinović's experience "EOS Matrix sends to the firm to complete, i.e. to get off his salary for the debt. They do not write to whom the debt is due, nor the amount, nor anything, but warns the employer that it will be completed if it is not done as they have written." The experience of Mrs. Žnjidarić is being arranged, EOS Matrix, "The Masters call my neighbor, who is 80 years old, barely walking and carrying their number with me to contact them." "They have charged another 22,000 kuna of interest on 20 thousand kunas for Diners." Or let's say Mr. Sekulić's experience, EOS Matrix, legal cameras, "The long Tele2 of 150 kn came through them with the costs of lawyers at 1250 kuna in a few months and grew every day until I paid for it." Or say Mrs Markanovic's experience, "They call 5 thousand times a day, if they don't get us, they call us neighbors, relatives, parents, at 6am at 9pm." "If one doesn't get paid, they go to another spouse, it's terrible what they do." Here's another, last experience I'm going to share, Mr. Hendija, "B2 capital, father has experience with them, PBZ sold the claim and these harass him every day. They call it a mass of times until they answer, they call it neighbours." This is terrible what's happening, it's a violation of human rights, this is unacceptable. In order to put an end to this, the Living Wall states in the procedure of the Debt Protection Act in special cases of transfer demand. This law is a lex specialis compared to the Law on Mandatory Relations. There's a new practice in there. So if the believer would like to hand over the debt to the debtors to the new believer first, a notice must be sent to the debtor that he intends to do so. Then he must be offered the first right to buy the debt for that fraction. If the debtor doesn't want it, he can choose whether he wants to, whether he wants to transfer that debt to a new believer or wants to stay with an old believer. If, however, following the consent of the debtor, the transfer of the debt to the new believer in that case, a second notification must be sent when and in what amount such activity has been made. It's also one of the irregularities, one hole they've used so far. In addition to these newspapers, there are more, I don't catch up with them at the break to explain everything, we're through a public debate. What is certainly very important to say is that this terror, which I spoke of earlier, stands in Article 12, in the case of the transfer of demand from the old to the new believer, the new believer, is generally these agencies that bought the debts for the change, so they must not contact the debtor in the evening and night hours and during the holidays, contact the debtor in the evening and night hours and during the holidays, contact the debtor at his workplace, contact the family members of the debtors in relation to the demand. If the debtor is also informed that the debtor has a valid authority, as a rule the new believer must contact only the authority rather than disturb the debtor by frequent phone calls or electronic communication. And what has often been a threat to the debtor is not to be threatened in any way. It's time to do a human rights violation, it's time to bring terror upon our citizens. This law covers and solves only one segment of the executive problem, which is huge and which is slowly growing political will in Croatia to be permanently solved. There, the law enforcement agencies will no longer sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55652	Thank you, thank you. We are going to another debate, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, on behalf of the Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55653	Thank you, Mr. President. A comment is needed due to yesterday's rain by all 38,000 nurses who expected a solution to their status from the current minister. Most of you probably heard of Flores Nightingale. Few of you know that entering the British Parliament are four bi. One Nelson as leader, one Shakespeare, one Newton and one not British queen, but Flores Nightingale. So this is an example of how you should stick to some values in society. And where are we? As Croatia supports those who today, 38 thousand of them will sacrifice their working day in their jobs by helping patients because they account for more than half of the total number of healthcare professionals. It is a huge number, but it should also be known that 38 thousand of them, even 1800, have gone back 5 years from Croatia and are currently missing them to meet all health needs of more than 12 thousand. So yesterday a thematic session was called on the position of the sisterhood in the Republic of Croatia and by not arriving the minister showed his concern and indolence after waiting for him decently for 20 minutes, he did not come down and turn around and come to an arranged session with his associates and announced. At a session where more than 30 were prominent than the medical profession, members of the sister's chamber, sister's union, medical schools, universities, medical schools, nurses' associations, nurses' organisations, patronages, all those who actually care about how to help and raise the status of nurses in Croatia. And it's about the important subject, and in order for the sisterhood to be recognised as a profession, it takes a great deal of engagement for all of us. No matter what party or personal preference. A multi-year complex problem in the field of basic education of nurses from the lack of understanding of the sisterhood as an independent profession of organisational inconsistency with the needs of healthcare and education levels, as well as the equalisation of different levels of education, the problem of higher education and the lack of compliance with EU legislation, is a problem that has existed for more than ten years and the last 5 years no shift has been made in Croatia. So, the problem is employment, the problem is working conditions, inadequate communication with different health system stakeholders, and ultimately the departure of a large number of nurses from the Republic of Croatia due to job-seeking in the EU Member States, and these were the reasons for calling this thematic session. In addition, it should be noted that several years of suspension of the material rights of nurses, retrogradely, nurses are faced with a reduction in income due to the abolition of the coefficient, the abolition of work experience supplements, the failure to pay overtime, inadequately paid captains, the failure of transport costs, the reduction of the grounds for jubilee awards, the ban on employment in public services and the lack of them, which eventually resulted in a reduction in salaries and up to 30% of those salaries that were at the level of 10 years ago. In addition to all of these abolished material rights of nurses, there are other problems facing nurses on a daily basis and leading to the very edge of endurance in the process of work. Therefore, it is known that the lack of nurses is becoming a growing problem and all of this is reflected in the quality of health care. Therefore, the question is rightly raised whether the current number of nurses can, under difficult working conditions, withstand all employers' demands and adequately meet the quality of healthcare. To conclude, there is no other profession that is as important and so unrecognized and marginalized as nurses or sisterhood. The real dimension of problems such as educational, status and professional, many are not known, they are self-secretly doing their job, but we are the ones who need to help their problems begin to solve themselves. New foundations and content are needed and a new model of sisterhood management. What should we do? It is necessary to fight equality in education and to ensure the full vertical of education. Nurses as subjects as subjects must influence the process of changing culture and ethics of a nurse’s education which strengthens the human and ethical dimension of the sister and sisterhood as a special health profession. However, this process of searching for fear of the sisterhood will begin when negative and undesirable aspects and consequences of inappropriate education that conditions certain positions and marginalised hospital influence within the profession and the public are recognized and they become someone we really appreciate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55654	Thank you. You were talking about the thematic session here, weren't you? Was there a quorum in that session?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55655	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55656	No, no, I'm asking you, was there a quorum? Because I was informed that a session was called past the procedure, that there was no quorum, that there were no materials and that simply people had not come to the session for that reason. So, that it was not called in accordance with the rules that exist in the Croatian Parliament, that people were not informed about what they were actually going to talk about because no material as chairman of the board was delivered. Is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55657	I can inform you that those who have told you this, obviously deceived you, the material of the sister union in particular was delivered, the call as well as any thematic session was sent in time, informed at the previous session and they all arrived on time. The members of the position, members of the HDZ, did not come after they saw that the minister had not arrived. All the other board members have come...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55658	I'm asking if there was a quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55659	The session was interrupted because the minister didn't come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55660	.../Intruder President: And was there a quorum?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55661	Of course not when the HDZ members who are members of the board didn't show up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55662	So there was no quorum. Well, I ask you, however, that since you were talking about the board, it would be correct to report all the elements of what happened yesterday because obviously we have a problem with these thematic sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55663	Apparently it's forbidden for HDZ members... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55664	Well, don't say it now, which is allowed and forbidden, I tell you you didn't have a quorum, you performed here as someone who called the minister because he didn't come, and apparently most of the MPs didn't come. So, that's what we have to...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55665	.../Strenja-Linić: For the first time, members of HDZ did not come to the thematic session./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55666	Well, it's not just members of the HDZ, they don't do most of it alone, you know that very well. There's no replica, you can't replicate. No replica, this is a five-minute break show, you can't replicate to me. Let's move on, the third is a respected representative of the Maria Puh on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55667	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, today in my speech I would like to look back on our development of continental tourism and the direction continental tourism is taking. In fact, we all had the opportunity to see the promotional video of the Croatian Tourist Board, which was presented in London the other day and I definitely welcome the production of such a video that presents Croatia as a tourist destination and I definitely support the fact that in the making of the video celebrities on world scale, because every promotion of Croatia is a step more in attracting tourists and ultimately a step more towards better results. But looking at the video, I am saddened and concerned by one fact, which is that for some reason, it is once again left out a whole series of features of continental Croatia. Looking at the video in some way it can be interpreted that Croatia is up to Zagreb and that there is nothing further north than Zagreb in our tourist offer, as well as in our Croatia. A rich area north of Zagreb is an area rich in cultural heritage from which it is a large part of the cultural heritage on UNESCO's list of protected cultural heritage. Many of the natural beauty of Lonjsko polje, Drava, Danube. Aren't they all worth enough to get a second in the video? One gastro offers that part of Croatia has an offer where we definitely envy many destinations and the very thought of the Zagorje scrutkles, on the well, on the međimurje movement, mills is something that attracts tourists again and brings us back constantly. Did they not deserve one second in the promotional video of the Croatian Tourist Board? Events held in this area that have long attracted visitors outside Croatia, such as Spaincirfest, who apparently won the award this year on tourism days as a tourist event of the year. Well, after all, and my Zagorje, my fairy tale in the palm of my hand, isn't all that enough to be part of the united tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia? I find it simply embarrassing that Croatia is not proud of the world-renowned museum of the Krapina Neanderthal, the national shrine of Marija Bistrica, which is also the treasure of tradition and heritage that it recognized and recognised even UNESCO. We have the most famous village in the world of Kumrovec coming to visit people from a far, far away world. The spas that we unfortunately still have for now are huge, insufficiently exploited by the potential of health tourism. Aren't they attractive enough and worthy of any second in a video that presents Croatian tourism. Are you worth the county, the cities and the municipalities less? If their efforts in the development of tourism are worth less, and I assure you that the efforts in the development of tourism in this area are remarkable. After all, is tourism on the continent worth less? No, and that shows the results, the results from month to month, year to year are getting brighter and better. Between January and October of this year, 16% more overnight stays were reached on the continent than in the past year, with the highest nights, the increase in overnight stays being achieved in the Karlova County and the Krapina-Zagorje County. Is this how we're going to develop tourism 365? Is this the direction of a uniform approach to Croatia's tourist offer? Is this how we want to present Croatia as a unique tourist destination? I'm afraid not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55668	The fourth club of representatives is the Croatian Democratic Community and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55669	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Somehow in this House of Highs, it's hard to behave the way anyone will. However, in no segment of our life anyone can behave however he wills, or someone has prescribed rules for him to behave, and someone has adopted those rules. So in this House of Commons we adopted a Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure that was inherited by the previous parliamentary majority that we disagreed with on some things, etc. That's irrelevant. But he's here and we have to work on him. And one question from a colleague and a colleague to all of us. Whether the President of the Parliament can call a session of the Parliament and place a agenda item for which he has not received materials from the proposings regardless of whether it is the Government, whether it is a representative, whether it is someone else. He can't. Is the chairman of the board able to call the committee's meeting without any material being prepared and to forward the materials to someone else? So much for that. We can invent, parade, do what we want, but the rules we have to stick to in life. Because if we don't stick to the bad rules, that leads us to anarchy. So much for the thematic sessions and so much for calling. The question would've been, if it hadn't been for that verbal incident case today, that's how it was discussed. But the question to all of us is whether we will stick to the rules that we have brought here ourselves. I agree with them or disagree with them or we'll make an anarchy in this House, that's one thing. Second. I would very much like to put all my debates in the past, ho years and as a minister and ruling and opposition representative like this, so that we can see who is consistent, who is not consistent. One question. How much really is Croatian healthcare due today? The commitments have been made and the obligations of Croatian health care have been made. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, look at the budget rebalance in 2000, look at the budget rebalance in 2004, look at the budget rebalance in 2012, and look at this budget rebalance today. And you know what the only link between all these budgets is? That these budget rebalances, regardless of which political option I set out in 2000, are one common issue of all these budgets is that the budget rebalance provides a billion and more kunas for the recovery of debt in health. So it's a fact that we simply can't escape. And now the question is whether today, when we discuss this budget rebalancing, we're going to open the question, we're going to talk critically about it, and we're going to just say something that's true. I remember when my colleague suggested, I think my colleague Varga suggested that the treasure be singled out, out of the treasury, out of health care, and that all the problems would be solved. Then we, who are a little closer to the waist of finance, said that in principle they won't solve anything because the treasure has nothing to do with what's real... Health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you today, when you look at HZZO's financial report and look at the 2010 budget report, you will see that this report is far, far more transparent than it is today. And something that's a fact and what's true. Whether we're political, all of us regardless, that's why I've talked about years, when the 2 mandates were in power of the SDP, twice HDZ, with different coalitions behind the Living Wall practically no one participated in those coalitions. To acknowledge to yourself the fact, either someone will make reforms in health or if we want to make health care without debts, then it is 0.5% of GDP or 0.5% of the general government budget deficit. That's a fact. A fact we can't escape from. Because if we don't, the budget rebalance of some new next government in three years, the first one will be identical. I'm telling you, take your colleagues and colleagues, 2008. 11, 12 months of copy paste today, billions of 200 million for health care, we'll resuscitate it, there'll be no debts. Remember, in 2012, our colleague Linic, we're going to give this up, we're going to take care of two billion county hospitals at the end of the term, and not the liabilities charged in healthcare are 2.5 billion kuna. These are facts, these are figures and these figures can be politicized as much as they want, but they can't be overwritten, because eventually they will pay for it again by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55670	Thank you. We are going to the last debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55671	Thank you very much, President. So, the topic is the current situation in healthcare and the inability of the current minister to solve problems, but here at first I have to stand in the defenses of Ines Strenja Linic, so, colleagues and colleagues, this is an invitation for a session. This is one material, this is another material, this is third material. If that's not enough to prepare a session of the Health and Social Policy Committee, I don't know what it is. The session was prepared, they got the materials, we could get quality involved in the debate, that the minister in charge came. However, the competent minister boasts here with his operational procedures, rather than boasting of the successes and reforms he has spent at the ministry in the portfolio since he led it. So his job is no longer to operate on tumors. If he thinks he's a better operator than a minister, he'll go to surgery. There are many doctors in HDZ, many of them I know, good managers who could run the Ministry of Health, for the benefit of all health employees, and medical resources, as counterpart Linic said, who has almost 39,000 and who yesterday Mr. Minister insulted as no one in the history of the sorority. So, not to come to the session, not to say how he sees a solution to the problem of the sorority is something that has certainly not happened in Croatian health history. And the health situation is bad, bad because the debts are piling up, bad because my colleague Shuker is a lot of people than in 2015 when my colleague Varga finished his term, then there were 400,000 people on the waiting lists. Today is a million and 200000. There are three times more people on the waiting lists, debts are enormously increased. The debt, i.e. the total debt, you asked, amounts to 8 billion and 200 million kuna. The income brings 3.9 billion, the debt that needs to be paid now, and the total of 8 billion. At the same time, what my colleague Schuker wants to reduce is, therefore, under the obligation of the Health Insurance Act, the state must pay the health care of 4.2 billion kuna. He's been paying for 2.5 years. So it's a mistake and former governments. But he's in HDZ power now. So if he wants to meet his legal obligations and the council passed that law, then he is obliged to pay into the Ministry of Health, HZZO, 4.2 billion, not 2.5 billion. So that's a billion and 700 million kunas less. So let's multiply it by 4 and we'll get to 8.2 billion. The new budget, therefore, is soon to be rebalanced, so nothing has changed and 2.5 billion remain. Here you go, sir. There's no finance minister. I'll tell him later. What I particularly want to say is that on several occasions I have referred parliamentary questions to the Minister of Health, offered solutions, pointed to problems, however, none of which he is worthy to do. So the minister doesn't really understand what it means to manage the health system. For him is the concept of cost-effectiveness "Spanish Village", access to health services he does not understand at all, the quality of health outcomes for him does not exist,... He doesn't even know what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, he's just saying, give me the money, and as the money is deployed, no reform in this mandate has been made. My colleagues and colleagues, health is the greatest fortune. The HDZ programme said that health will be more accessible, more comprehensive in this term, that there will be no increase in the price of supplementary health insurance, and everything is now being done by Minister Kujundzic, therefore, he cheats on all Croatian citizens and so does HDZ voters. Do you know that the waiting list for cardiovascular procedures is increasing every day? If it shrinks, why does it shrink? Because the patients waiting for the procedure die, they don't welcome the order. And why Minister Kujundzic doesn't do anything. Here, he's operating on the biggest tumors, he says. So why not do something to make sure that Croatian heart surgery is as accessible as possible and that they live longer, healthier and better quality. And I hope Prime Minister Plenkovic asks him to apologize to all the nurses and technicians he deeply offended yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55672	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Branko Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55673	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure, namely if the thematic session of the Committee is called and that Committee does not have its Rules of Procedure, shall apply to the work of the Committee the sub-region of the Rules of Procedure at the plenary session. This means that if the Government is not a proposing, if the proposer of an act at some thematic session is an individual association, representatives or other authorised promoter, then it is correct if it is called for, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure it is correct to invite a representative of the Ministry to make the ministry manifest and state the position of the Government. And then if such a memo is not answered by the minister and does not come then colleague Ines Strenja-Linic is right. In this case, calling someone who did not come and had no opportunity to show up in time is not in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55674	Thank you, just a little bit. So I have another injury to my colleague Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure. So, we're not going to solve this right now, so obviously there's a certain problem with calling thematic sessions, we're going to have to... So we're going to have to do these certain procedures so that these situations don't repeat themselves, see under what conditions and how the sessions, thematic sessions will be held. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, yeah, well, not now, we can't do that now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I will ask for further explanations and then we will make certain procedures all together so that the thematic sessions are made and organised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and some good rules. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55675	Well, Article 238 was injured because what the esteemed president of the HDZ Club is now quoting is not standing. Therefore, Article 181 of the President of the Assembly delivers the reports received by the working bodies to the legislator and to the representatives. So let's people, let's be serious and let's not do one thing, and you certainly agree with me, bizarrely, absurdly, blatantly, incorrectly acting as a minister, defending the nonexistent articles of the Rules of Procedure. The minister made a mistake, and he needs to apologize, he doesn't have to apologize to me, he needs to apologize to all the nurses and all the members of the Health and Social Policy Committee. He didn't have to come, he could send a secretary of state, an assistant, there are thank God in the Ministry of Health enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u55676	Bacic did not talk about the minister's behaviour or the minister's responsibility but talked about the way the thematic session is called, and we have some obvious inconsistencies because there are certain failures in the procedure itself and in the rules that we have not clearly defined when it comes to the thematic sessions. But I'd like to finish it now, and we'll talk about it on another occasion. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose that we hold a joint discussion from the following three points: - Proposed half-year report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2017 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2017. - Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and projection for 2018 and 2019 Proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2017 and projection of plans for 2018 and 2019 for: - Croatian Waters - Croatian Roads - Centre for Reconstruction and Sales - Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund - State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, second reading, P.Z. No. 217 If no one has anything against this proposal, then we will conduct a united debate. The proposer of these acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of the State budget, the provisions of Articles 211 and 212 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56921	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As three points are united, I will say for each of them what is most important introductory and, of course, during the debate I am here together with my colleagues and colleagues, to answer all questions, comments, suggestions and such. We start with a half-year report on the state budget for the first half of 2017, which was prepared and made in accordance with the Budget Law. Therefore, the draft of this half-yearly report also contains a general and specific part of the state budget, together with a whole series of arguments of reports and documents provided for in the law itself. In short lines, what's inside is to present. So, macroeconomic indicators as an integral part, a review of what happened for the first six months above all should be said, so the rate of economic growth of 2.7% based on official data published by the State Statistics Office. What's important is to say that when these data are slightly further analyzed, as was the case in previous years. The biggest contribution to this growth comes from domestic demand, so mostly personal consumption and investment. This is something we remember, among other things, in the tax reform itself, saying that one of the basic ideas and thoughts of the guides in tax discharge and simplification of tax regulations is to give one additional incentive, among other things, to investment activities in the Republic of Croatia, so investments that will be focused according to added value, according to new employment, of course, and according to exports that when you look at each other in the first six months achieved the highest growth rate. However, the Croatian economy remains, has a very high level of import dependence, so this good result of exports of goods and services and should surely be congratulated on Croatian exporters, whether goods or services. Of course, when you look at the overall effect of net exports, however, it is practically neutral, i.e. in some ways that imports are also eliminated, i.e. neutralising the good results of exports. After a long time in the first half of this year, inflation is in positive territory. So, I would say already for three years we have practically recorded trends in deflation of negative consumer price index rates. In the first six months, it was 1.1%. Most of it has contributed to the rise in fuel and oil prices for private means of transport. As for these high-frequency indicators coming from the expenditure side of GDP, the biggest growth to be apostrophe in the first six months of traffic from retail to slightly 5%, industrial production continues positive trends from 2016. A slightly slower rate of growth is 2.1. However, we should also apostrophe that we have a new growth in the construction index. So we know well the past most of the time during the recession, starting from a high pre-recession base in the building. We've had a period of really constant rates of decline in construction works, which means here we now see this growth of 1.7% in 2017. Overnight and arrivals of tourists in the first six months may not be crucial indicators for the tourist season, it is more of course important to mention in the third quarter. However, it should be noted that tourists' nights have seen growth in the first six months of 23.2%. All these indicators that I mention as important to individual economic operators and their employees in individual segments. Of course, they are important for the whole economy and, above all, from the perspective and aspect of the labour market, and here you can see of course a further trend in reducing the unemployment rate. But I think I have also made it clear in the Croatian Parliament that it is always more important for me to look at the indicators and indicators of the employment growth rate for all of us in the government. So this is what is certainly where and where more relevant and it is also seen as a positive indicator in the first six months. As far as the revenue side of the state budget is concerned, the total revenues of the state budget in the first half-year have been achieved in the amount of € 58.3 billion, which is close to that, we can say such a half-year plan. We usually divide a year into two equal parts, although from the perspective of seasonality within the year of the third and fourth quarter, i.e. the quarter slightly more contributes so that this is achieved in the amount of 47.9% of the plan. At the annual level, it's a 3 and a half percent increase. What we are looking at most is certainly tax revenues, so what we are creating inside of the domestic economy and economy of course. Tax revenues in the first half were achieved 2.4% more than in the first half of 2016 and amounted to €35.1 billion, which is the 48.2 annual plan. In the next point, I will talk a little bit more about tax revenues mainly to those who are better than the plan and who have certainly shown that tax reform was a step in the right direction, in the right direction, because this tax discharge is evident how good it is for employers for citizens, so it is also good for the state budget because we have this return effect. What I would like to apostrophe in the implementation of the budget in the first six months is, of course, the expenditure side of the state budget. The total expenditure of the state budget was reached at HRK 59.9 billion, which is 46.6% of the annual plan compared to the same period of the previous year of some 1.2 billion kuna. Costs for employees by economic classification are not individually considered the most important. Of course, pensions are top priority, but according to the economic classification of staff expenditures in the first six months, they were achieved or were made in the amount of $12.9 billion, which is 48.7% of planned expenditures. To this increase and to this implementation in the first six months, the largest part and the biggest contribution or importance are coming from the perspective of the agreement reached, from the agreement signed at the end of last year with trade unions and representatives of state service employees. But at the same time, you know that the government has made a unilateral decision that such growth, the base of 2% from February 1st, also follows for public officials so that the effect is already visible in the first six months. Also, of course, the usual practice of increasing the base by those 0.5% for so-called. past work. Material expenditures were made in the amount of €5.3 billion, representing 42.3% of the planned funds. The largest increases are recorded at expenditures concerning, among other things, the withdrawal of European funds. However, what is particularly important is the situation that we have had one intervention with the health sector in the first six months. I believe that during the debate we will also have a lot of comments and discussions on the topic of health. But for the first six months, it's been that first initial transfer of the 200 million kunas to the largest section where it's been going towards the majors. As for financial expenditures, they were made at an amount of 5.2 billion kuna or 48.9% of planned expenditures, for the first 6 months they were 225.7 million kuna compared to the same period of the previous year. So, several times I'm going to refer to myself now and the course of rebalances and debates, I believe you'll recognize that this item of expenditure, where one responsible, efficient and smart public debt management uses the circumstances of both international and domestic financial markets, and we also do what's really important, and that's to cut interest costs. And I talked several times about how important this is from the perspective of the state budget and all of us together as taxpayers who are actually opening a space for much more efficient and better management and use of budgets. We also have direct and indirect positive cost repercussions both in terms of debt and capital for our entrepreneurs, employers and, of course, for citizens and all taxpayers. The expenditure on subsidies was made in the first 6 months amounting to €3.5 billion, representing 54.2% of the planned funds, given that the largest part of the subsidy refers to agriculture and precisely their realisation is relatively higher in the first half of the year then and this information that we made over 50% in the first 6 months does not need to be surprised or is quite the opposite of any expectations. Otherwise, I repeat the most significant amount in agriculture, direct payments in agriculture, measures to regulate the agricultural product market 1.8 billion kuna, measures to rural development of 680 million kuna. As for the aid given abroad and within the general state, they were implemented in the first 6 months of the 6.3 billion kuna, even below 40% of the planned funding for this year. The most significant part relates to our contribution or to the EU budget, all in accordance with me, I would say with the formula, the algorithm, the established practice that applies to all Member States, and thus to the Republic of Croatia and accordingly we meet our obligations on a monthly basis. As for the remuneration of citizens and households, in the first 6 months they were made at an amount of €22.8 billion, representing 49.4% of the planned funds, the single most significant item being pensions and pensions made in the amount of €18.6 billion or 49.8% of the planned funds. Of course, there are several reasons for this, the sitting side effect of the 2016 transfer, after which the indexation of pensions, which in April 2007 was modest but still a positive 0.65%, and of course the use of the number and structure of pensioners, so the inflow of new pensioners. Otherwise, benefits in social care were made in the amount of 1.2% billion kuna, an allowance for children amounting to 690 million kuna. As for other expenditures, they were made at 2.9 billion kuna, which accounts for 46.2% of the planned funds, most of which relate to transfers towards rail and air infrastructure, 940 million kuna, practically funded by European funds. Transfer to Croatian highways, Croatian railways, infrastructure, in accordance with the legislation, you know that those 20+20 lipes go to each of these companies, which from the perspective of the reports that we attach to the Croatian Assembly are treated outside the scope of the central state but according to the ESI 2010, all of these are part of the general state as well as numerous other companies in the majority or weighted ownership of the Republic of Croatia. As for the cost of obtaining non-financial assets, they were carried out in the amount of HRK 987.3 million, which is 24.6% of the plan, the usual dynamics due to the negotiation process and the implementation of the work that comes on the charge in general in the second half of the year. Also with the state budget is a report or execution outside the budget users, 6 of them which are an integral part of this report but of course we complement them with all the rest of the consolidation. The total revenues of these 6 extra budget users in the first half amounted to 14.9 billion kuna, the largest part of that waste, of course, to the incomes of HZZO, they are 11.5 billion, Croatian waters 1.2 billion, Croatian roads 890, and the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and Insurance of Savings Deposits 751 million kuna. Total expenditure of extra budget users was made in the amount of 13.9 billion kuna. When we sort of sum it up and subtract it together, starting from the first level, which is the level of the state budget, the revenues minus the expenditures that I just presented and presented, in the first six months they showed a deficit in the state budget of 1.6 billion kuna or 0.4% of the projected, planned GDP. Comparing with the same period of the previous year, and the previous year, you remember yourself at the presentation was also presented as the historic best result in terms of the execution of the first 6 months and then there was a lot of course not to say criticism, or suggestion or comment that we were then under temporary financing regime in view of the elections at the end of 2015 and that the execution was more or less the first three months 2016 budgeted. Compared to this very good result, the historic best in 2016, we in 2017 have a situation that 800 million kuna have even lower deficits in the first 6 months of this year. When you add to this the implementation of extra budget users that are in the surplus of 971 million kuna in the first 6 months, when you add other extra budget users that are included in the ESI 2010 methodology, so the one that is comparable to the data of all other EU member states and which EUROSTAT monitors and publishes and, of course, when you add the budget of our units of local and regional self-government, the general government budget in the first 6 months of 2017 is in surplus in excess of 35 million kuna. So we spend as much as we create and as much as we have, we show responsible, transparent and sound management of public finances, budget public finances, budgetary resources and make an additional contribution as one important integral element of the overall public debt management policy, which is its further reduction, which is evident in 2017, this trend of reducing the share of public debt will continue. I repeat again, this is in some way a new word or a new term that has not been used very much in public finances so far, the most that we have come up with is the situation with the primary surplus, but here in the first 6 months of this year and the overall surplus, therefore, the excess income over expenditure for 35 million kuna. In addition to this report that I have just presented, an integral part of the report is, of course, a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules, a fiscal commission, therefore, composed of independent experts and people who, by their academic and general work, contribute to quality and improvement, issues, that is, debates on the issue of public finances, of course in the Croatian Parliament with the chairmanship of the Assembly Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You know that we have an existing legal framework, which, I will say, is very open and honest, I have said several times about it, very in fact moderate in that sense, therefore, these fiscal rules and are not so strict, so just follow the movement of the expenditure side of the budget and I can very simply conclude with one word that in the first 6 months that this fiscal rule has been fulfilled. But I can also announce that, through the amendments to the fiscal responsibility law, we will strengthen these rules ourselves to further create a stronger and stronger framework of fiscal responsibility and public finance management. As regards the rebalance of the budget, i.e. the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, the basis for its submission and discussion in the Croatian Parliament is a good part and already solutions for the implementation of the budget in the 6-month period. I can only repeat and say that these positive macro economic indicators continue in the following year. And for us, although he didn't have official data, the State Statistics Institute, the CNB, about the third quarter of GDP, about the tourist season, but we can safely say that this third quarter really was, by much and record. In particular, in terms of the tourist season, but also some other elements and acted on Croatian economies, and that the projection we originally put into the draft budget of the state for 2017 remains still, which is the economic growth rate of 3.2%. All these positive macroeconomic indicators, indicators are naturally transferred and converted to the revenue side of the budget. I was just saying something about her, and now we're going to do something more detailed, so, changes and additions to the state budget for 2017 are increasing budget revenues by 876 million kn. Exactly 875.8 million kn. Compared to the original plan, we are now comparing the figures compared to that plan, which was voted by the Croatian Parliament as a proposal for a state budget for 2017. Now that the 875.8 million are a little more detailed view, the largest part of the growth, income, and that is 2 billion kuna, comes, and that is 2,3 billion kn comes from increasing tax revenues, mainly in profit tax segments and value added tax. Once again, I am apostrophysing, you know, that profit tax was one of the key pillars of tax reform, with a general tax discharge, we have done the greatest adjustment in this segment with income tax, i.e. the greatest reduction in tax burden. The tax rate has been reduced from 20% to 18%, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises whose annual turnover or income up to 3 million kunas is 12%. It is evident in some ways and the economic reaction and another indicator that what I said in the presentation of tax reform, in the tax sense, is very often worth the syntagma, that it is less and more, if we look only from the tax perspective, but I would say that tax discharge and tax reform should not be seen only from the perspective of tax revenues, however, we should look wherever and beyond, because their and its first aim was to stimulate and stimulate economic activity. Investment, export consumption and everything that contributes, I repeat once again, and GDP growth, but mainly employment. A significant increase in records and revenues from the sale of non-financial assets, as well as contributions, they are for some 59 million kunas higher than the plan. What is in some way neutralising the item, that the overall effect I mentioned on the revenue side of the budget, is the reduction of revenue from aid, mostly, those are aids that are made from the use of European funds totalling 1.9 billion kuna compared to the original plan. As for the expenditure side of the budget, the expenditure of the state budget according to these changes and additions are planned by 1.6 billion kuna less than the original plan. And as we're talking about just presenting the budget, let's even now do a breakdown and a division of that part of the budget, which is funded by so-called. general sources, therefore, already mentioned taxes, contributions, what we all contribute in some way and which are not the means of specific purposes for certain expenditures. This level of expenditure remains frozen, therefore, remains the same as in the plan of the original draft budget. However, the reduction in the revenue side of the budget due to the prolonged dynamics of the use of European funds and reduced realisation in 2017 is, of course, reflected on the cost side of the budget, and we have, in the most part, this reduction. As far as the overall score is concerned, the slower the dynamics and the execution compared to the original plan is a deficit neutral. Because if you make expenditure on funding from European funds or from your own and dedicated revenues, they are for a specific purpose, so if you don't withdraw you don't have any expenditure on the other side. Esada, when we look at this total reduction, i.e. the cost side of the state budget, we are within, of course, the law of the possibilities and the rebalancing itself, I would say significant re-allocations within the existing limits. What is important to mention, therefore, is that in this proposal the amendment and addition of the state budget for 2017 is a great emphasis just put on the health system, i.e., the health system for which we have recognised both in the Government and all together, and in several times in this Croatian Parliament there has been a saying that there is certainly something that needs to be seriously addressed, intervention and all the measures that we have foreseen in the budget rebalancing itself are certainly a good step, however, in no case enough and the final result and solution of all our problems in the health system. However, let me say, therefore, the Ministry of Health in the budget rebalancing is increasing by 1.1 billion kuna, from which to settle the hospital's obligations both these state and county amounts of 870 million kuna transfers of HZZO for compensation for the sickening of 137.7 million kuna, the Split Clinical Hospital Centre for the project to increase energy efficiency, 27.2 million kuna. The funds were found in the budget rebalancing and for the education science system, the increase of their budget is 174.8 million kuna. We know well that the largest part of their budget refers to the salaries and rights of employees so that the largest part of this increase is also going for that purpose. The ministry of the sea, transport and infrastructure also notes an increase in its budget, is intended for the county road administrations. I think that the whole series, I would say the representative in the Croatian Parliament is familiar with the problem that in certain counties certainly the problems of the county road administrations over the past years due to a significant reduction in their incomes that were originally planned. So this trend that has been visible in recent years actually has its own repercussions on their daily business, and we know very well that the county road administrations when we talk about the total number of km actually manage with the maximum amount of these kilometers, or the entire infrastructure. That amount is increasing by 100 million kuna. The Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is increasing 90 million kuna to stop reducing pensions under special regulations, remember that this act or document has been adopted. The ministry is increasing 80 million kuna for elemental disasters, unfortunately. And I think there's already been a lot said. And our esteemed parliamentary representative and president of the Committee of State for... is of course familiar with this problem whether we are talking about recent flood cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had a government meeting with... Zadar County, of course, and other counties of Dalmatia, Istria, but of course also on the continent mainly in agriculture, throughout the year we have witnessed and faced numerous elementary disasters in accordance with our and the possibilities of budget and, of course, according to positive regulations, the funds are now being planned, with the already usual and envisioned original 20 million kunas increasing to 100 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The interior ministry is increasing 45 million kuna to cover expenditure, payable, making payable printers, the Ministry of Foreign and European 32.2m for diplomatic consular representations, then the Ministry of Justice 24.4m for the cost of intellectual services of judicial authorities. The Ministry of Finance is again and you will see this in the Law on Implementation, Proposal for amendments and addition of the Law on the Implementation of the 21.3 million kuna for 35 units of local and regional (regional) self-government with the status of mountain-mounted areas. Ministry of State property 13.4 million for the purchase of business space. We have, of course, increases set in terms of court rulings and costs that we must settle both within the Republic of Croatia and internationally as taxpayers from the state budget. Now when you add all of this together, what I said, surely the total expenditures are significantly higher than that of my earlier finding that I said that we have frozen the cost side of the budget from these general sources, which in other words means that we have on the other side of the savings. The biggest savings were made at the Department of Finance's division, and I think it should be our honor and satisfaction together, and that's the fact that the second year in a row, we record the biggest reduction right on interest expenses. So once again what I mentioned in the execution, i.e. the report on execution in the first 6 months, the responsible and efficient management of public debt, resulted in, among other things, the creation of a second year in a row of large savings precisely on this category of financial expenditure, so all the sums of those costs we pay for debt burdens and debts from past periods. However, certain savings have been found in some other sections of the Ministry of Croatian Defence for the simple reason because the funds were originally planned in 2017 because of the assumed entry into force of the Law on Croatian Defences already this year, however, since it is still in the parliamentary procedure expected second reading, of course this effect is transferred to 2018. As far as the proposal for rebalancing and the overall effect is concerned, so when we add all of this together and subtract, maybe just one more sentence, I have enough time to say also about the proposal to amend and supplement the budget of extra budget users. The mention of the result of the first 6 months clearly gives for not only faith but a very real projection that the execution of extra budget users in relation to the original plan will be better, it is some 300 million kunas more surplus compared to the original plan. At the same time, however, we will have a worse result than the original plan of a consolidated local state, so our units of local and regional self-government in 2017 will have a slightly lower result than the original plan. But now that we're adding it all together, I'm not going to say subtract, but we're really going to add the same thing according to the ESA 2010 methodology, so what's comparable to the EU, the original state budget plan for 2017 was a deficit of 3 billion 155 million kuna or 0, I'm sorry, I'm wrong, so 4 billion 848 million kuna deficits or 1.3% of GDP. If you remember at the time when we proposed in the Assembly that figure was 1.6% of GDP, now according to these changes and additions, we predict a reduction in the general government deficit by about 2.6 billion kuna, i.e. 0.6% of GDP. I'm going to give one more reference to 2016, if you remember, that year we had the original budget plan of 2.6% of GDP, the execution was 0.9% of GDP. We ourselves realized that this was actually the best result since we followed the ESA 2010 methodology. On the other hand, for 2017, according to the same pattern, the original 1.6% of GDP plan, the deficit according to this rebalance of 0.6% of GDP, and I can say for this speaker that I expect by the end of the year that, of course, through the response to public finances and budget management, I am sure that we will achieve even a better result than that. And finally we still have this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2017. So, an act that follows the draft budget, all in accordance with the law, we plan and as regards the government's duties, extra- budget users, budget supplies, guarantee supplies, in this act, are now foreseen exactly, the way, that is, the modality, suggestions towards the Ministry of Health, in which way these 200 million kunas of total 870 to the county hospitals will be transferred. And these are the hospitals that have just the longest payment deadlines in terms of their obligations and perhaps only one last note, so it wouldn't surprise you by chance that the deficit reduction increases the need for borrowing the state budget. The reason is very simple, because in the form and in the context of our financial and business restructuring of highways and roads in Croatia and financial markets and investors, and advisers, we ourselves, of course, think that it is best to make an instrument that will be at the level of the state budget, so, the Ministry of Finance, and then transfer these funds to outside of the budget users. Accordingly, this provision is also provided for in the final proposal of the Law to amend and supplement the Law on the implementation of the State budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56922	I thank the minister. We have 13 replicas, the first of which is a respected colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56923	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric, I will try not to get out of the context of the topic, and to tell you this in time, you have pointed out here several times and mentioned tax reform and indeed won success. When we talk about income tax, the way you just said it, there could be less tax. Croatia is definitely coming out of recession, we have economic growth, and perhaps now is the chance to do something else. VAT has no impact on the demand for people. The key measure is income tax. Wherever there's a little more than a year, one of the candidates for diameter says that. The second candidate says only and secondly, it's a combination of measures, we're going to reduce VAT in the second year because by then we're going to generate economic growth. You know what candidate said that? The current premiere, which eventually won elections on the basis of one such promise. You were a little more careful, you said the following, there is no other, but to lower the VAT, since Croatia has one of the largest in Europe and that is some sort of explanation. And Croatia has one of the largest in Europe value added tax. Through tax reforms, the most regrettable was that it was, in fact, the least affected by the poorest layer of the population. At the same time, the poorest layer of the population spends the most, the most in terms of their wages on consumption and actually the most in this participation in VAT. And now you can tell, so you won't help a man if you leave him 15, 20, 50 kn. However, this society needs a message, perhaps it needs a message from the Ministry of Finance, that here is parallel to planning to join the euro area, it is indeed planned to reduce VAT by 2% by 2020. It was some kind of message, maybe it would give optimism, and then maybe it would just happen that more money comes in the cash register if we actually have a smaller tax rate. That's about my idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56924	Replication response, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56925	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, thank you very much for your comments and I am pleased to have a full discussion of the tax system and in this replica of yours. So we don't single out each segment per segment, despite you quoting statements and refer to a VAT stop. I think that through defending tax reform, we talked about it, so let's say a few words on the subject as well. We are considering, and some empirical, academic, thinking, some research and other countries taking into account our domestic situation and knowledge about our tax system have decided, first step of course, to go first and foremost to the discharge of direct taxes, therefore, income tax and profit tax. Deeply aware of the fact that, on the one hand, we recommend the best return effect on the economy, in terms of already mentioned investments, employment, consumption, but at the same time within the framework of the total funds provided for tax reform, I will remind you, the disbursement amounted to €2.5 billion for the entire Croatian economy and citizens. Of course, we wanted to reach out to every Croatian citizen as widely as possible. If we're talking about the income tax system, we've said it countless times, the situation was, at that point, before tax reform, 900,000 taxpayers, income taxes, they didn't even enter income tax scissors, so they didn't even pay. So there's no disbursement that could increase their salary, we've raised that number to about a million-and-a-half. But, in order not to remain deprived of citizens who have slightly lower incomes, we intervened in the value added tax system, precisely on those items that have the greatest regressive effect, which will actually contribute most to them, which was to reduce the VAT rate on the supply of electricity, to the transport of garbage, i.e. for our farmers who are below the VAT threshold reducing to agricultural inputs. Those principles will continue to be followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56926	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56927	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm one of those who didn't support the budget and I was in most of it. The fact that we had a number of meetings, which is crucial, were municipalities and cities that fell out of support by law. You made compensations last year and this year you made compensation, so we see that these 35 local self-governments, after the meetings where General Krstičević, Pranic and I were personally and that part, that was the beginning of the year really respected again so that Vrgorac, Sinj, Gorski Kotar, i.e.. These 35 local self-governments are, in part, these compensatory measures will take place, e.g. Sinju 4 million kn, Vrgorcu about 2 million kn, Gorski Kotar as well. But I'm curious, you're talking about good that tax reforms have yielded results. I'm interested in giving you time to unload, because the fact is, tax reforms didn't work except for people who had large incomes, to raise wages, to go to minimum wages. You're saying yourself that tax cuts are defined because we know that we've raised taxes in the catering industry. Would that make it even more possible to start employment and these processes, and I'm mostly interested in that and it's the most painful thing for me. For this reason, in 2016 projects funded by the county states such as Fr. Pavel Vukkovic's primary school, which was in the budget. The ministry has thrown out, and the state has given three million kuna for the project of the finished school of the basic collapse of Vuckovic and that is one reason I did not support it. So I'd like to ask you to rebalance this now because we have the funds of the projects that we've paid to keep in the budget. I'll give you the amendment one more time, because it's sad to throw away the projects that are. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56928	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56929	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, about tax reform we've done a lot of things here and talked about before, maybe we should close at least in this first part of the first two replicas. For the first nine months, as the effect of tax reform, we have a net salary growth, an average net salary in the Republic of Croatia by 5.2%. So, the direct effect of tax disbursement is reflected in a significantly higher increase in the average net salary, of course compared to the growth of the average gross salary and surely that all together in this way we can not say I am satisfied because I will not impute any conclusions, but we are certainly satisfied with these results. As far as mountainous and mountainous areas are concerned, you know well at this meeting and many other occasions when we have commented, we communicate everything in accordance with the legal rules on the basis of the legal rules and criteria that mountainous and mountainous areas, among other things, provide us with a certain distribution and allocation of these aids. However, there is also no need to ignore the fact and I think that you are the same in your debate when it comes to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional and regional self-government, and have recognised all our efforts as we have mentioned several times. This one we call it the pride node that over the past years over 10 changes, 13 specifically in the system of financing local self-government did we no longer start to split it up, but simply cut it off. And simply as of 1.1.2018, we have a much cleaner situation, more transparent, more efficient, fairer and fairer where the resources of the state budget towards the units of local and regional self-government will actually be focused on the principles of achieving a more even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those fiscal criteria are taken into account. And as for individual projects and which you mention both the state budget and the budgets of individual ministries all in line with some kind of dynamic and planning of what they get from the field, among other things, plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56930	Thank you. The third replica of the esteemed colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56931	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers, in your performance, you only mentioned this part of the story about a billion and 900 million kunas of less withdrawn funds from the EU. I have to conclude that it is still a trend, and that means that in almost 20 ministries, we are not talking about other users we've been making a bad withdrawal. I just have to say the following, and that is that when you look that in the area of protection and rescue, the Fire Department of Protection and Rescue, the Croatian Mine Action Centre has almost 100 million kunas not been used. They're cohesion funds. These are projects that have to be used and this situation where this decline is about a trend that I don't think is good at at all. I would also like to say this, and this is that in the situation of the reduction of resources for European agricultural funds, the use of European agricultural funds. As Slavonia emigrates to us, we buy drones, grow money for blinds, and we don't exactly work on such projects that should secure that strategy, which is to keep people and strengthen the agriculture strategy. As far as the fee is concerned, I would also like to mention now in this first replica an important part, which is that certain ministries have now remembered certain projects here at the moment, so let's say 7 million kuna to the Ministry of Science for the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar. It's a situation that could have been planned a long time ago. Therefore, I want to point out this weak withdrawal of funds. On the other hand, there is no excuse, and what I want to highlight here is that our budgets and plans, obviously there is a huge gap. The plans are overindulging, and the realization is very bad. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56932	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56933	Thank you very much for asking, for your comments. I will try in these two minutes, but I will also have a chance to clarify the problem of European funds later. I think there are no representatives in the Croatian Parliament or citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not care and who would not raise their hand to make Croatia as successful as possible in withdrawing European funds in terms of total absorption, using the total envelope available to us, etc. I presented it here. You said the same thing now among other things. Compared to the original plan, reducing the total revenue from the aid, as well as the realisation itself. However, there should be a very clear one. So when we talk about withdrawing funds. What is recorded in the budget is inconsistent with the cash flow as we withdraw the funds, but in accordance with the implementation of certain projects. So, if some assets and advances are withdrawn in advance in terms of some advances, they are not recorded in the budget until the project is realised, the invoices are laid out, until they can be paid. So here we're talking about somewhat slower dynamics than the original plan for reasons because the contests lasted a little longer than anyone predicted, because someone complained, because they were some adjustments. Thus, budget users plan to do so in accordance with their forecasts. If there are certain shifts in dynamics, it does not mean the permanent elimination of these funds, but of course we transfer to the next period. But again when you mentioned exactly this planning because you also have these experiences this isn't the first year and it's no excuse. But the fact is, every year we have a bigger plan on this item for certain reasons. It was also 2014 and 2015, respectively, and 2016 and 2017 respectively. What we need to change about budget users is the mental set in terms of their planning, not to plan these funds based on agreed amounts, but on the very principle that I have just said, which is to monitor the realization within the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56934	Thank you. Let's move on, the fourth replica, dear colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56935	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, it would refer to this part of the expenditure which therefore goes to employees and which rise by more than 270 million kuna in 2017. Most of it is not only wages, but other expenditures for employees of more than 195 million kuna are said to be. Here's an explanation of what's true, are we talking about some unplanned severances, so please explain what exactly this item is. And I would also touch on this tax revenue increase in which actually half of the income from the profit tax and what you yourself said was the result of a tax reduction to 12 and 18. So if this conclusion of yours isn't really proof enough that the tax discharge of the private sector needs to be implemented urgently, then I don't know what other evidence we're waiting for. So not only does it require tax discharge of the private sector, but it also needs to be relieved of those, I mean 547 non-taxable charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56936	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56937	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the total expenditure increase for employees this year from the same year will reach more than 750 million kuna for salaries only in the light of the alignment of these 2+2+2 bases for civil servants, i.e. on the basis of government decisions. On top of that, this year compared to the plan, I'll remind you that we didn't have the original funds to regress and we paid for it. So this amount is somewhere of about 250 million kuna which is, of course, the budget users of which are with the Suport and with the largest contribution from the Ministry of Finance found to pay off. Just as the rest of the year is ahead of us for a month and a half, we will see according to the government's decisions and everything that is an integral part of our talks and negotiations with representatives of the union centres on these grounds. As far as tax discharge is concerned, maybe we should make a reference so we don't accidentally forget it. Tax discharge is the first step already taken so that we do not ignore that fact 2.5 billion kuna is a relieved Croatian economy and citizens from 1.1.2017. The positive effects of this are seen in both macroeconomic and fiscal and all other indicators. It's not our final step. So what we are about presenting tax reform, and I can say now and in general budgetary and fiscal policies. Our idea is, among other things, the direction of public finances management and the responsible transparent spending of budgetary resources within the scope and all the extra income we generate in terms of total results to reduce debt and deficits, i.e. a new circle and a new wave of tax redundancies. So you can certainly expect that during the government's term there will be a few more laps already since 1.1.2018, some of the measures that go in line with tax reform, here I have 3 seconds just to say, let's say an increase in VAT entry thresholds rising from 230 to 300 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56938	Thank you, 5th replica, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56939	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance, you've confirmed that I was right in a brief discussion with the former finance minister. So the total debt in health is 8.2 billion and has reached 3.9 and 4 billion, respectively. So the debt is due because the funds that are now being paid out of the budget are now a billion and 100 million going to pay off the dues. Thus, it is critical and problematic because some hospitals have not been paying for 900 days. What I'd like to ask you is Ministers of Finance, do you have any influence on the Ministry to finally start reforms? Because these billions of yours and 100 million of course are good and that they will reduce their debts and reduce the difficulties in the business of health institutions. However, there is still a monthly debt of between 55 million kuna and 65 million kunas in hospitals, so if we multiply it by 12 in an hour we're going to get to this amount that you're now dealing with in health care. What I also want to hear from you is the answer when the Ministry of Finance will begin to respect the obligations arising from the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which accounts for the debt that needs to be paid to healthcare every year to 4.2 billion. I see in your rebalancing it remains at 2.5 billion, which means we have again a billion and 700 million potential debts that will constantly multiply. Therefore, until when do you intend to disobey the decision of the Croatian Parliament and the law that is clear and speaks of the need for payment from the Law on compulsory health insurance? And what I'm interested in is what you think about the proposal from the Association of Employers, which was misrepresented in public as a proposal to collect cigarettes. Their proposal was to get the money into HZZO as soon as possible, to make those 32% excise duties on tobacco excise duty, direct payment of 3 kuna per box in HZZO, which is a billion and 200 million because it sells 400,000 boxes of cigarettes a year. [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Jovanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56940	Comrade Jovanovic, let's be fair Come on. [[Invadica Jovanovic: Excuse me.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I apologize for not hearing your debate, only part of it, so I don't know if I've confirmed or disproved whether or not he's right, but I think you and the well-respected representative Shucker, the former finance minister, have had the same numbers since these figures were delivered to you, among other things, as part of the parliamentary issue. The highest of these figures, several things, therefore, in 2017 is not yet finished but the total level, total, total, total liabilities 8.2, reached something lower, of course 3,7, 3.8 billion kuna. This transfer now taking place and which we are working under the budget rebalancing directly reduces both categories. And what we finally get into the deficit calculation is a change in total liabilities. So we're going to cut them down with this intervention now, but given what the total of these obligations are, surely, and that's what I said at the beginning, we can't even expect that the solution to all our problems is. You know well during your government a model of rehabilitation of the health system was implemented, I think 6.5 billion kunas that were coloquialized in 2013 and 2014 whether or not it was focused on the health system. The figure also says that at the end of 2015 the total amount of liabilities amounted to 8 billion kuna. So in these two years, they haven't increased that much, just like 200 million kunas. And with this intervention or the space that we found in the budget, we're going to cut them down. I'll answer the third part later. This second part, as far as the Croatian Health Insurance Office is concerned. There's a presentation that you and your colleagues know very well. I know it was a very big debate 16.10.2014. Proposal for the most effective model of exit from the HZZO Treasury. Among other things, the items shall be deleted from the Health Insurance Act 82 and the rights of special groups shall be granted from compulsory health insurance. We suggest that health care should be reduced to 1.1 billion kuna under the law. Unfortunately, it's never been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56942	Thank you. We're going to the sixth line. Dear colleague Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56943	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I've listened very carefully to your debate, so I have a methodological question. So I can agree that your fiscal reform has partially succeeded, so you haven't spent it as far as you planned and that it had had a positive say I'm going to say some tax effects on, first of all on income. But I personally think that one of the fundamental objectives I will say is the macro-economic or national economy of each society, each country actually increases the number of employees. Now here we have it, it's like the most important goal. There's a little bit of everyone in conflict here. So I'm not attacking you, I'm just trying to explain myself at some point, and I'm trying to see what's thinking about it. Do you look at the data of the State Statistics Institute, so the JPPD form, or when you talk about it, talk about HZMO data, so you are in the number of insurance companies because if I remember correctly at the beginning of the year, you added that everyone who pays the copyright fees, if the pensioners are second employment, etc. etc. are also bonds of payment of the pension contribution. And now what we have, so we have data from the DZS that say that in the first four months, we actually have 22922 less employees in all legal persons and agricultural professions. While the data is due to the SORs, so the paid contribution is something else in the other statistics. So on the one hand, we have the State Statistics Office, we have EUROSTAT that says the same thing, which is again the fact that we have 0.8% less employees that unfortunately we are in a negative call this trend as Latvia and Romania. And the problem is that we believe that we do not have developed statistics, and I think that the fundamental goal should be any reform of fiscal, monetary that unfortunately cannot have an increase in the number of employees. We don't have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56944	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56945	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I thank you, too, for your comment. So I'd say not only did you listen carefully, but you understand the problem, or you think in a good way. Because from all of this we usually do so when we present macroeconomic indicators then we try to bring them closer to every Croatian citizen. And it is certain that this data and employment indicator is exactly the one that perhaps contributes most to it along with those indicators that talk about the overall standard of Croatian citizens. And we should certainly get the greatest emphasis on that. I also said in the introduction that when I mention reducing and further reducing the unemployment rate, we should always refer more to employment movements. It's up about one percent in the first six months. Of course, there is a certain methodological difference, and you also said well here, because in tax reform there is no longer any exception to the payment of contributions, nor the authors, nor the others who previously had that benefit. Now, of course, it has its own repercusions and on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's data. However, any of the data, sources used them comparablely and they follow their part and responsibilities in part show that trends in the labour market are recovering. Is dynamics satisfactory for everyone? Well, it's not. I'd tell anyone. We'd all like to see the growth of employment wherever it is and where it's higher and where it's stronger. But it was kind of obvious. I'll remind you of the period in which the recession began. Even then, employers or companies did not immediately begin layoffs. There was some sort of time-out. Unfortunately, that time shift when things are going well, when we have economic growth and employment is going on is something even longer, so on this rate of employment growth of 1% we certainly can't stop. In fact, it is necessary to do everything possible to make this growth of employment and the overall standard even more unrelated to the source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56946	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56947	Dear Ministers, I honestly think that you honestly wrote this report we only have one problem with Croatia and that is the problem of all ministries, and this is the problem that our legal system is not appropriate,... A modern economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not happening here. We have some short questions. The war is waged at a strategic level. You're on strategic level. What's going on at the tactical level down there, IRS? There's what's going on in the IRS... the department. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have companies, for example, where they're not... You know maybe shape, one single problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a company down in Omis where they didn't register one, let's just say one loan for 12 million Swiss francs, etc. We have fictitious companies. How can a man open another company if he has brought ten companies into bankruptcy? What's going on? People, you charge non-existent services, there's kleptocracy at all levels. At this tactical, operational level you have a kleptomaniac state, because Croatians have become experts on... Accounting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you have any information on how much of this money was exported from Croatia outside only 14 families took 17,5 billion kuna. It's not my data, it's this Global Financial... Those associations that deal with the flow of money, they know you're not following, you're not authorized to do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's the cooperation with the CNB? How many taxes were returned from Croatia from the 17 and a half billion about 680 million kuna. What's going on here? What about the origin of the property, etc. What is the percentage of the real, gray economy in Croatia where taxes from these princes of Drpislav are not chosen by the municipalities that means the system at tactical level does not work at all. I would suggest since Botswana is above the anti-corruption laws, how do you reward your workers? Some rat from the IRS because they're investigating crime, they're coming to a blockade, and all they'd say is, what about the crime at the IRS where a billion kuna was washed?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56948	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Zdravko Marić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56949	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here at the beginning that I do not take credit for not only mine, so you said that I did not write this report personally, there are three of my co-workers and colleagues at the Ministry of Finance who have worked day and night to prepare these reports as well as the draft budget for the following year. But let's let go of that part, and I will thank them and always commend them, and I would like to do it in some way and not just with nice words, or in the system of the state administration, I hope that we, as Government, will do it through the Croatian Parliament as a reform to put such people above average and quality work, both in the right way and adequately respond and reward them. As far as the IRS is concerned, the IRS is the integral part of the Ministry of Finance and I will always, as Minister of Finance, defend the institution and say that it is certainly on the trail of everything that is laid down in our legal regulations and that it works in accordance with its powers and responsibilities. There are always certain individual cases of certain anomalies that we cannot completely avoid, and these individual examples that you mention, I am not familiar with every single example of tax situations. But here's when you mentioned these international situations, here's these recent examples of already collokiously called paper tomatoes, which show that, of course, the investigation will show, the people who are dealing with this gave 'it was legal or illegal to avoid paying taxes because, of course, it's also legal to find certain options to avoid or reduce the tax base, but if you cross that line and enter the illegal part, then normal institutions need to react. Croatia Tax Administration and together all services of the Ministry of Finance are deeply integrated and connected to European and international systems and simply cooperate on these and such cases but it may be one of the things and the final thought. In the IRS, one of the things was simplifying tax regulations that, among other things, the tax administration could work more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56950	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56951	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, the Ministers said and we see that this budget rebalance, the Ministry of Health has been provided with an additional billion and 161 million kuna, that's for every commendation. But you say the dues will be secured 870 million for those who have the longest non-payment period. On this occasion, she would appeal to you and to the Minister of Health if you didn't forget hospitals that tried rationally to do business, which tried and tried to settle their debts on time like this. The General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County does not owe more than 365 days and you will now rescind the debts of those hospitals that are more than 900 days old, and our hospital would not receive any kuna from that key. So please, because it would be a very ugly message and then it would put us in a position to think about whether in the next period of time to settle our debts, whether rationally to do business or to wait again for one intervention from the state budget to settle these ancient debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56952	The reply of the respected Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56953	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I can only say that you're absolutely right and that, among other things, was the intention, I just have to correct you in that first part. So the total amount is all for the recovery of different types of debts, these 870 are hospitals, both in general state and county, but the remaining part like this transfer to HZZO, these are debts in terms of these diseases. But this very part of what I referred to was that you were absolutely right and it should be a clear message, I am already with Minister Kujundzic, we are at government level talking about it and he will, within the framework of his procedures and procedures and powers, do one procedure in which and how these funds will be transferred. It's not a secret and it doesn't have to be a secret, so it's much easier than 870 million kunas to transfer funds to state hospitals, so clinical hospital centers. They're already within the budget itself. According to county hospitals, the general hospitals, whose founders of the county, are somewhat more complex procedures, but we, in the framework of the Budget Implementation Act, have foreseen this, and the minister will prescribe how it comes. But this is exactly what it is. You mentioned the General Hospital Sibenik, not the only one, I will mention Slavonski Brod, Čakovec, Nasice, Požega, Zadar, which are also hospitals that are responsible for managing their resources if I accidentally skipped someone, I apologize to them, I talked to some of the directors, and these are those who, within their capabilities and limitations, are clearly able to keep payment deadlines within certain frameworks and we all have an expensive interest in these funds and interventions coming and coming to them so that all the expensive payment deadlines are reduced, but certainly this is one of the messages that must be clear that these types of interventions will not be forever and should be encouraged to all and especially those who are less efficient to say so manage their budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56954	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56955	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you said that the position for the elemental disasters in the rebalancing was raised 5 times and from 20 to 100 thousand kuna, respectively. ... that you have respected the commission's request from natural disasters in view of the enormous damages that have taken place this year and that means we will in some way mitigate the consequences of the elemental disasters but certainly we cannot even close to relieving those damages. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will be comments. I just want to say that you know, and because of the Croatian public, how much damage it is. At this point, the damages were reported 2 billion 835 million kuna, an earthquake of 5 million, a stormy wind of 26 million, 500 million fires, 327 million floods, a billion drought and 100, 176 million fights and a frost of 692 million. There will be a comment that these funds are too small and that you have too little to separate, but I would also like to make it clear that from 2011 to the day of today, the funds allocated to elemental disasters were also, 2.5 billion, 3 billion 700, 4 billion 600, 2 billion 400, billion and a half. And the funds were allocated in 2011 nothing, 5 million kuna in 2012, 19 million in '13, '14. 35, '15. 19 and '16. 20 million. It is certain that we will have to look for other ways to recover damages, such as measures 5.2.1 from rural development. It's part of the possibility, where the damages are over 70%, and we'll have to think, Minister, about the necessity of an insurance subsidy, especially property, especially in livestock farming. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56956	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56957	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you're dealing with the problem of elemental disasters, you know very well, these numbers all you said, stand, maybe just one supplement, talk about reported damages, that move, with the so-called. ... So, from the very level of individual cases up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there are, above all, municipal, city, or county committees, which then confirm them, i.e. to the resolution ministries and to the state commission which then determines the final and damages which are in some way confirmed and which have the legal basis to be compensated. Of course, the law foresees and has a whole series of provisions that, in total of these reported damages, actually make a division, whether we are talking about legal persons. We know ourselves the law does not predict any intervention. It also takes into account the property condition, therefore, some kind of censorship taken into account, whether anyone was able, materially, to provide, and did not, in relation to those who could not, financially, materially. So they must be guided by those means. Of course, I repeat, everything in line with the possibilities we created, we believe that we are also sending a good message in this way, but I think this topic that you have opened is certainly one relevant, because then we are talking about a system of prevention, that we can't change and affect weather disasters and it's evident and globally, I'm not an expert in meteorology or anything like that, but climate change and everything has more and more repercussions on just like this, we can say that, in border and extreme cases, from flood, drought and so forth, and so on. So, the prevention system through the possibility of subsidising parts to insurance, so when that market starts to develop a little bit more strongly, then we believe all together that these premiums could be lower, but in some ways, that we all think ahead of time, and not when it happens, then how and how to resuscitate. But here, and this intervention by the end of the year, will be spent because we are talking about some cities, municipalities, counties, which are inexhaustibly in need of intervention funds, European funds always need a little longer dynamics, but we will also apply to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56958	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is unfortunate that we are discussing a document that may be most important for this country in front of a practically empty assembly. There's only one conclusion that it's hard to accept when it comes to guessing and doing some positive things. I would look back here and I would like to comment with you on the fourth item of size in the state budget after pensions, salaries and health care, which is the cost of public debt. So, is this interest, which we are paying for current duties, the result of only international environment and cheap interest rates, or is it the result of something else. And that is that investors recognized that Croatia is not a risky country, that responsible fiscal policy is being conducted here and that there is practically a balance of budget. I, too, sincerely hope, have spoken of it many times in this House, that the rating agencies, who are ultimately the capital spokesman and direct us small towards them, will finally recognise these results and will raise the credit rating to Croatia. They just have to do it because the financial market and the laundry next... will show how much trust we have in Croatia and conduct Croatian politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what I would like you to repeat again, how much lower costs are on the expenditure side of the budget, based on the smaller interest paid by Croatia from one difference because it reduced the debt requirement due to the reduced deficit and on the other hand, which is being refinanced at such reduced interest rates, in fact, the old debt that comes on the charge. I think you should just say it, it's facts, because those who lend you money don't have sentiment. They want to make more money, but they also recognize where it's safe to invest money, and then you need to make a little less money, to make sure you get it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56960	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56961	Thank you very much, Reverend Schucker. So, surely you as a longtime finance minister and we worked together on this job, we always had our intention, among other things, on one item of expenditure that the Ministry of Finance can directly influence, does everything that is in our power to make these total costs lower. I'm specifically talking about interest expenses, of course. Because, let's not forget all the other expenses, all the budget users in there are connected. Last year, Croatia paid 762 million kuna less interest at the level of the general state compared to 2015. This year isn't over yet, we have two more important jobs ahead of us, which we need to do. But according to this amendment and supplementation, we can say that I would say that we will save so much this year. So, the situation where we took the initial state of affairs, me as the finance minister, where we've singled out 12 billion dollars for interest, according to different types of debt binding, vault records, loans and all the others, at the level of the general state, we're now bringing it down to the level that it's going to come within the 10 billion zone. I'm still saying it's still a high amount, of course, as long as it's almost 3% of GDP, it's still high and we're going to do everything we can, of course, to further reduce that amount. But apparently two years in a row, we've practically saved a billion to two billion dollars on interest alone. I'm going to tell you, a recent example, you all know from the beginning of the year, we issued one domestic bond, then, one international one, and then one domestic one again, at 15 years, they were all with yields of about 3%. The last example, and I repeat that by the end of the year we have a few more activities in this area, was the release of a vault record that was originally issued at 1.9% more in 2015, refinanced last year by 07, and now we have refinanced it by 0.1% per year and a half. So, only when you look at this one instrument, one billion and a half euros, of the vault's record, when you compare compared to last year, is the savings of nearly 100 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56962	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, yesterday you were monitoring I had an exhibition to Croatian economists in Opatija where you presented information that spoke about macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia from tax reform which apparently gained the success that you announced when you represented. About the fact that over the past year, GDP growth has been shown at 3%, that for the first 6 months as I have heard that a general government surplus has been achieved, the fact that behind us is a great tourist season, the fact that in those years we have encountered the biggest crisis in the economy through the Agrokor concert, which this government has also dealt with well. And finally, I am interested after you presented these same shareholders with the draft budget for 2018 as the most important financial document in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise familiarising them with the fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia, I would be interested in how did Croatian businessmen at the meeting accept this government's policy in terms of fiscal policy, when it comes to managing public finances and when it comes to the draft budget for next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56964	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56965	Thank you very much. Here is yesterday, the 25th counseling of the Economist Society, so traditionally in Opatija, three days, in which the first day, the greatest work is spoken by state officials, then more and more of course academic communities but also businessmen, always well visited in Opatija. I would say perhaps one of the most relevant meetings within the year and always conveniently timed at the end of the year, so in this period because plans are being made for next year. As you said, I put it all out yesterday and in the Croatian Parliament we will soon have a debate about next year and the budget, the results you have now heard and seen but the same plans because the plans without existing results would only be in some way nice wishes. We now have two years in a row of clear results, excellent indicators, a reduction in the share of public debt in GDP and the overall fiscal consolidation that then gives them and more and for faith in these figures but of course, what is most important, for their planning. So that's the part I would say both materially and psychologically, which then also affects Croatian businessmen. Because Croatian businessmen today are certain in their projections of financial plans that include employment and investment plans, etc., under one component can take the stability of public finances as relevant and consistent. A few minutes ago, perhaps just to refer to this, the European Commission announced its latest economic growth projections in the decimal of identical Croatian projections, 3.2. So there are no unrealistic projections in Croatia, no inflating numbers that then only create a particular problem, even though we are very often and conservative in their original projections as seen from the proposal for execution. So we also try to manage public finances as a government and as a state responsibly, create order in the system and, on the other hand, open space to the economy because they are the main creators and economic activities and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56966	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56967	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. All of us agree that tax discharge is needed, however, in order for tax discharge to occur, there is a need for the state to raise money somewhere. The best way to make money is I think it's disproportionate to property and reported income. What I personally criticised you on several occasions and asked you and asked the fact that the changes in tax reform were planned and reduced the rate that thanks to me and my colleague Kristic at last increased to our proposal which was 54%, but what was done and what was disastrous is that of the period, meaning for the property acquired from 2005 to 2011 we can no longer verify this disproportionate of the reported income and property I think it was a completely wrong move, that is the period of the biggest corruption, I said here in the Parliament that this is the time, during which we now and some of which we mention can also check about their then reported income assets we have. I think it's entirely wrong and wrong move, we went towards increasing the tax rate to the caterers, and we see that they always find ways to kill the state, we see here where we went to cut the profit tax, that we have an increase because people when there's a smaller tax rate then more and I think it's just the ones who took advantage of themselves in illegal ways, the real pool from which the state has to raise funds in order to go into tax discharge to the entrepreneurs. I think it was the wrong move for you to make it clear to me today, and I can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56968	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56969	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's what I'm going to try to do again, or explain it to you, so maybe when we find out, I won't say yes, but at least you'll accept my arguments. You remember, among other things, with the former representative mentioned, my colleague from the IRS was at a meeting then and we talked about this issue. Once again, so when we talk about the tax procedure, it is an administrative procedure that has according to the law of a particular procedure. Both the state audit and the profession, the profession before all tax, so not the Tax Administration but outside because they were also included in the tax reform were based on findings and judicial bodies and state audits and generally legal and tax security suggested that we must define what is the limitation period and draw some kind of line. This means that these six years are practically as unchanged as they were before but clearly defined. In previous, or existing laws, you had the possibility to determine in proportion to 1.1.2015 in terms of the tax procedure. So, these 6 years, we believe that because of the information system, the connection with international tax administrations, sources, information is more than enough for the IRS to carry out the tax procedure within those 6 years. However, there is that other element and it is a criminal procedure. There's no statute of limitations for him. So for this period that you are talking about if it is found that there is a disproportionate amount of property and source of income tax procedure if it is also the end of the criminal proceedings that can determine it. Because even today in today's system, you, if you go into tax proceedings and find that there is an disproportionateity which is an unfair tax procedure, ceases and is opened in accordance with the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. So nothing got worse. In fact, we've stepped up, we've been wise, so we've put that tax rate at 36% as the highest that can be increased by 50%. So we treat this disproportionate as another income without the right to deduct. We're taxing him de facto with a rate of 54%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56970	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56971	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, this is the first budget of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and this is the first repair for better than you. In today's debates, I will also speak politically of all these figures, about the situation we found because we recently heard a finding by Mr Bernardic that SDP left this government with everything great, all arranged and that nothing really you were supposed to do as a minister. And with a few levels, we'll watch it all day. First of all, the stability of the tax system is a reference point from the SDP government. 46 amendments to tax laws in 4 years, deficits. We were left with an excessive deficit procedure and one level that was not acceptable. The credit rating, we stayed, which the SDP left us, is what you're going to tell us and what the odds are now after a year of this government. And, of course, public debt. We all know that the government of the SDP entrusted the state in that time of four years to over 80 billion kuna. I have never received an answer to what this has managed to spend, which infrastructure projects or other problems have solved, which other problems have been solved by the state. And now we're here in 2017, so two years later. So, we're gonna communicate between what we've been left with great, and are you like the minister some have wanted to replace in the past year, right? For your competence, for your knowledge, for your abilities more than some other things they state. And did in that year we made a move. That's what we're going to discuss today with the opposition, to show that this government knows where it's going and that it knows the direction in which finance should be managed and how these finances affect our lives and the lives of all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56972	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56973	Thank you very much. Here by naming me personally as finance minister along with my entire team, these are people who have worked for many years and we worked together in the Ministry of Finance and a whole series of other colleagues and colleagues. We immediately recognized the public debt problem as a problem from our perspective, number one, as one of the key macroeconomic risks and challenges that we need to address. You remember the 2016 draft budget, remember the results. Here is the proposal in 2017, and this Government has virtually immediately recognized the debt problem as extremely important teaching and on the words of counsel Shuker. Interest costs, total debt levels, credit ratings, excessive deficit procedures, that's all the things we've faced. In a year and a half, two days of results are seen, positive shifts are seen. But also in front of us all together it won't mean that now we can sit down and say we've done our part. However, we still have a very good job in front of us mainly from the perspective of tax reform. You used one of the epithets I would also personally like to say, because I presented it in tax reform, among other things. At this point, I can talk about tax reform from the perspective of the effects on consumption, on investment, on the system, on macroeconomics, on public finances. And I can certainly give a satisfactory, more than satisfactory assessment. But it will certainly take another year or two to stop for this pay phone and all of us together and to determine what you said, that the tax system is stable, that it is predictable and consistent. This is very important for the Croatian tax system and for legal certainty and for the entire economy. Because it doesn't just matter how frequent the changes are, it's even more important whether they're the opposite. So I said myself in tax reform we are starting with tax discharge and our intention with this tax discharge is to continue to be within the scope and dynamics that we ourselves create. But that's something we're going to insist on and that we all have a stable and safe story to eat together on public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56974	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we'll move on to the debate. I'm opening a debate and the first club will be the SDSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56975	Honorable ministers with associates and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club as I believe and most clubs in the Croatian Parliament cannot and cannot assess the positive overall results of the fiscal policy for this year, which we are now discussing first on budget rebalances and budget implementation, and then we will discuss with regard to the projection for next year's budget, i.e. the draft budget for next year. The fact that this is the result of the synergy of two factors, the rise of economic activity in Europe, which is significantly linked. Especially with individual countries, but also with the fact that fiscal policy measures, particularly tax policies, have been beneficial and fit into this trend, and that this synergy has resulted in such favourable, good indicators, such as GDP growth by 2.7% in the mid-term. And the likelihood that this trend will continue until the end of this year and will reach 3.2%. At the same time, it should be said here that the data from tourism revenues are actually covered for only the first half, and they did not cover the second half, the most significant half-year, given that there is only a increase of 2 months of 8%. This means that real GDP growth can indeed be expected to be in line with what is scheduled, as planned. That's very significant. It's a significant assumption for those things we know still have to be achieved. We know we need to raise productivity, but without a good fiscal picture, like this, it's certainly less real than with a picture like this. We know that we need to raise the development capacity at different levels, but without such assumptions, such as these, which he has partly talked about in his replicas and counterparts Shuker and the minister are responding to them, given the more suitable conditions of borrowing, much more suitable conditions of borrowing with such a stable picture, in order to hope that the measures of development policies will then be significantly, significantly, significantly better. As for what has been said in recent days, and this is a question of the vitality of the workforce and the specific segments of the workforce in the Republic of Croatia, it is a more complex issue and indeed the Government will have to pay considerable attention to all of the Parliament, because for many years we have actually noticed that the vitality of the workforce in the Republic of Croatia is falling and thus significantly endangers our economy. And it's jeopardizing these elements that we've been talking about, but it's not, this topic is not a place that would be discussed more widely. What I would like to underline once again is the fact that there has been a disbursement of a total tax charge of €2.5 billion, and that this tax discharge has affected an increase in the income available to the population and the economic disbursement and can be seen, of course, in the fact of the overall increase in income. Which is not only to balance the relationship between the income and the expenditure situation of the budget but at the same time the possibility of faster and more favourable economic growth faster and more favourable export-to-import ratio and these are indicators that can undoubtedly benefit from an increase in employment, to an increase in investment and to the total revenues of the state budget. It's certainly good, so I want to start with what's positive, now I have another set of things that we notice are positive, before I move on to what the SDSS club cares about. It is a positive fact that for the needs of county health institutions, funds will be provided through the Ministry of Health and this time, which will allow these health institutions to resolve their difficulties in the supply of medicines, in the supply of equipment and in the overall business. We know it's nowhere near what it takes because the debt in health care is enormous. So just a few years ago, we were talking about six billion kn, and today, unfortunately, it was 8 billion kuna. A billion and something kuna will certainly be a significant contribution, as it used to be in earlier years, but in the long run and strategically speaking, it will not solve the problem of our health care. And he feels a big challenge and a big question about how to preserve the quality of health care. The availability of health in the widest social layers is on the one hand and its sustainability in the current economic conditions and economic indicators. And one serious analysis should be made if there are no measures already taken for the long-term resolution of healthcare, otherwise it will be a great difficulty for the state budget. And especially will be a great difficulty for health care alone. As for the allocation of funds for flood damage, we really welcome it. Over the past years, there have been a number of natural disasters in various areas that have burdened local self-government units, burdened the counties, particularly burdened a large number of our citizens in certain areas that are already living in difficult living conditions and difficult environments and interventions that will be provided. After this, the rebalance will significantly strengthen the capacity to revitalise these areas from the restoration of infrastructure, houses, to the creation of social assumptions about normal life. I would especially like to highlight the importance of the measures towards the Croatian roads, i.e. the County Road Administrations. We have discussed this on several occasions, and I would like to thank both the Minister of Finance and the other ministers with whom he conducted the talks, the Minister of Transport and others, and that is to allocate 100 million kuna of funds to the county roads, if I am well informed. I would point out in particular that this should primarily apply to 4 counties whose revenues are well below the average of the other counties, given the legal provisions that the funds are provided from revenues based on the sale of fuel and in whose area the income of that type is unfortunately not even close, such as income in Istria or in the međimurje or some other county. So the carlovack County certainly belongs to those counties, Sisak-moslavina, Požeko-slavonska, Lika-Senjska. And these counties, i.e. their county road administrations, are undoubtedly the necessary support to at least this temporary until they find a system solution that will bring them under conditions more evenly than they are now, especially if we know that some counties like carlovakia have over 2,500km which are unfalsified. And not to say that there are a large number of roads in such a bad state that without additional resources that the state would ensure they can't bring these roads into a state that will guarantee safety on one side, which will guarantee the preservation of people's assets, such as vehicles or labour, and which will allow them, of course, that, like other citizens, have the chance to cross individual shares not in 3 or 4 hours, not for an hour if it takes 15 minutes or not in half an hour, not for 3 hours, if it takes only half an hour. What the Club of Representatives of the SDSS cares about and what we will talk about on Friday, but should also be here on budget implementation is the fact that the planned implementation of the budget by individual government bodies has unfortunately failed with certain ministries. It has seriously undermined the withdrawal of funds from EU funds in line with the planned one. That's over 2 billion kuna. And we must, first of all, speak to the parties and groups of the ruling coalition, but of course it applies to all because it is an experience that is repeated unfortunately. We need to learn a lesson that if we plan on doing something, it should be done. And I think it would be of paramount importance to establish where the difficulties are, which are the ministries where there's been a serious subjugation. Another thing I want to say when funds are planned on Wednesday, those concerning the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities and those concerning undeveloped municipalities. Undeveloped municipalities that have an index of development 1 or a potential index of development 2, if not particularly large funds that they receive for the development of their municipal and social infrastructure and in the past and in this year if a significant part of these funds has not been spent up to this rebalancing and remains for a month and a half until the conclusion of the treasure if not less. Then the question is, how is it going, for example? The Ministry of Regional Development spends 60, 70 million kunas left just for those needs. Maybe the Ministry knows, maybe we don't know, maybe the picture's better and I hope it's better. But we should know, and we should know under what criteria these funds will be shared. Whether or not they will be divided into those who have pirated 2, 3 projects and those who hold competitions and apply only one project they will not even get the chance to know whether there is an opportunity for another project to be implemented during the rebalancing process. That has to change. This is especially true for low-development municipalities suffering from poor municipal infrastructure and, of course, because of the fact that the municipality’s leadership alone often cannot be at the necessary level. I'm not just talking about municipalities that are mostly populated by the Serb population, it's true for all the municipalities that have this development index. The other thing that I'm particularly concerned about, that's two things, I'm going to mention them and it's about us, and it's an office for national minorities, the Office for Human Rights and the National Minorities. The planned funds of 4 million 215 thousand 469 kuna, and no lip was spent. These are European Social Fund funds, we do not know why these funds are not withdrawn in any way. There may be reasonable reasons. But if there are difficulties then it takes time for these difficulties to be removed. These are significant funds for members of national minorities. We who negotiate individual funds know what it means to single out and provide 4 million kuna for individual programmes. And these are funds that do not burden the budget but remain unexpended. Why the implementation of the programme, the regional housing programme, is only 64%, 21 million kuna remains according to this state as it is now recorded, so a while ago, we hope that it is more favourable in the present picture. Why 21 million kunas for people waiting to be taken care of and we have different categories. Now we're talking about one category, let's unload one, and we'll solve the other one more easily. What's the reason that that 21 million kuna hasn't been spent? The average value of building a house from foundation to roof according to the standards of the Ministry of Regional Development is about 200 thousand or 250 kuna. You can imagine how many objects can be built. In any case, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this proposal of budget rebalancing with these concerns, in particular, we will talk about it when it comes to reelectrication. It is simply something that we cannot wait for the mandate of this government, it must be resolved in the next year or the SDSS's Club of Representatives will consider it their not-to-fall government, but their moral downturn and we will not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56976	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56977	A fellow Pupovac would agree with you. Exports to the county road administrations should be more of an allocation of funds for undeveloped counties, you have listed 4 but believe me that much is not better in these two which I will now list but probably in others and that is Split-Dalmatia which is huge. Here's an example of the Omiš municipality and the hinterland, the Sinj municipality and the hinterland, which is absolutely forgotten because it's huge surface and per capita, not like Lika. Perhaps in the amount it seems because Split is a large area, so is Sibenik, but the back end of the Drinn area, the Knin area is absolutely a traffic infrastructure, and because of this infrastructure, it is also an impact perhaps all you have listed is that people are either leaving or not returning to those areas. So these two counties should also be talking about the backdrops because only from the Dalmatian Zagora in the last few, ever since the counties started, 100,000 people have gone away, I'm talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, so since we've been redesigned. So I think and would agree with you that these areas should be looked at, in fact, fair to these areas, if we think about all these areas. or to remain people in this area but it is very important to invest in transport infrastructure with everything else health care, education that should encourage kindergartens in this area, human survival, demographic image. I agree with you also on indexation and that these areas not only receive money on some scale as they have so far but exclusively projects and that it will be a help to them both County and not the problem of the county and the ministry. Because they certainly don't have the capacity in these smaller municipalities like bigger cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56978	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, I will start with this second part of your replica about development and municipalities with the lowest index of development. There is no doubt that neither the county nor the ministry with this dynamic inflow of funds in these areas can significantly compensate for the slow growth of investment development in improving development and low development rates. Therefore, it is necessary for the state to adopt the Law on Supported Areas, which is why it is necessary to provide for a financial instrument as it says in the operational programme adopted by the Government together with national minority representatives in order to make that financial instrument available to those units of local self-government that you mention as you might mention a whole series of others from here and all over western Slavonia up to Baranja because those areas without these intervention financial resources, developmental ones, which are negligible in the total amount of funds that the State otherwise allocates for these needs, will be completely shut down and people will be evicted. As for your question regarding the Split-Dalmatia County, the Omis area or the Sibenik-Knin County, you could of course add Zadar County, there are indeed certain areas that are not significantly different from the area of the county that I mentioned first, but also the state of Karlovac. However, in the total amount of the funds of the county road administrations on the basis of compensation, i.e. the share in the price of gasoline or fuels is significantly higher in these counties, so that the internal redistribution and some state intervention would be easier than in the case of these two countries and in these four counties that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56980	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56981	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, I was encouraged by this replica of your part of the county hospital exposure. In fact, this debt of three billion kuna, which according to the major drugs that are for medical equipment and medicines, is almost 75% of that long waste at the clinical centres, but the largest time of delays is due to county hospitals. It even extends to three years of individual hospitals. I think the hospital in Virovitica is 727 days late. It's a very dangerous situation, because hospitals can get very calo into a state of blocking them and you know what that would mean for citizens' health. Now back to basic replica, I'm sorry the minister isn't here. The minister boasts tax reform, through tax reform can increase revenues, can do so successfully, but he cannot constantly meet all the requirements that the system represents, society as a whole if all who should not implement the reforms. Take it for example when she was Kukuriku Government she proposed functional hospital merger. HDZ colleagues used to create miracles in the field there. They said we're undertakers of hospitals, that I don't know what's going to happen. There's a reverse situation going on right now. The HDZ colleagues now suggest the same reaction, and on the other hand, the same reaction. Don't shut down our hospitals just because she's talking about functional mergers. And without reforms, without structural reforms, and in that part, we won't be able to close these health minuses and so on in all areas of society. In that sense, I'm looking at the president's criticism. I fully agree with her when she said in Opatija that without consensus on these issues, without a system that will not be abolished again when any government comes, that it is the only way we can achieve the right goals in this society. It means implementing reforms and reducing then spending because we will always have a real impact with tax repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56982	Thank you. We'll hear the answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56983	Dear colleague Sagar, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Zhagar, the state of the county hospitals since I've been in Parliament is constantly on the agenda as one of the most urgent and urgent. Late payment to suppliers, poor overall state of mind with regard to hospital equipment, especially some in terms of renewables and hospital renewal. It's a constant subject. Someone's getting better, someone's getting better, some of the mayors are getting better, some are getting worse, some are getting worse, some are getting worse. However, there is no doubt that this is the first step towards recovery. But this resolution is paliative, it's not as structural as you say. And structural resolution is actually something we don't dare do. And there would really have to be some kind of, first of all, some kind of political within the government to do so, and on the one hand, there would have to be some consensus about it between key political actors. It's one of the things that could be the subject of a key political agreement. As far as the tax issues you mentioned and the reform were concerned, tax reform has been beneficial and other measures would likely have been beneficial to the measures proposed, if we had not stopped them for certain reasons. And there's one thing here to say that we're going to discuss on Friday. By dealing with the issue of Agrokor, we actually have an opportunity to deal with serious structural reforms within our society when it comes to the economy and the way it works and that depends on a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56984	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56985	Thank you very much. Your debate about these three points was on that system where everyone scratches where it it itches, and that's good. We should discuss the budget this way right now. So each of us has a position that interests or represents someone and the logical thing is to express his political position in that position and take care of who he represents politically. And if we were to discuss this in such a way, then the effect of this report on the implementation of the budget in 6 months would be different, because the intention to submit a half-yearly report would not only cause it to see what the revenue side is because it is when laws are passed in most parts of automation. But it's a very important expenditure page as much as anyone is up to it to say so in the implementation of the program and the use of the funds. You also said one thing that you've been saying for a long time, a long time in this High House about county hospitals. However, the problem of county hospitals is one... how we shouldn't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You remember the amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government units, I think it was there somewhere in 2001, 2002. We transferred the founding rights to the county, but we did not give the right to financial resources. And ever since then, losses have been generated in county hospitals, they're being rehabilitated. And that's why I'm going to talk a lot more about that health care today. We simply have to give more if we want this kind of healthcare another 0.5 or 0.6 of gross domestic product simply to make this health care available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing, and with that, I'm going to conclude my replica. Very rarely, almost never in this House discusses the financial plans, the reports of extra budget funds. And only Croatia's roads are a billion and 800 tax revenues paid, and then there are the problems of ZUC and others, but there will be time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56986	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56987	As far as the esteemed president, colleague Shucker is concerned about how to approach further resolution of county hospitals, I fully agree with you, and I hope that what you said was heard by the minister and that, of course, the members of the government and the prime minister will hear about it if that is not the final way to do it but to be an incentive to find a solution. As far as the spending side is concerned, it's been bothering us for a long time. It's been bothering us for a long time and this can be solved by better coordination of the inter-resor. This can be resolved so that people are not found when the budget rebalance comes or the budget is drawn up for next year. So, better internal communications and, of course, increased responsibility. Because like the one who creates assumptions that income is guaranteed, so God gives me and the one who has his responsibility to realize that the planned funds and planned expenditure procedures are as good as possible at a greater percentage, if possible, even a little more. As far as users themselves are concerned, that's desirable. Of course, it is not desirable for those who safeguard the stability of the budget. So it's desirable. However, we note that these things are not sufficiently involved, and that concerns us. The fact that we are interested in certain things is understandable, and because of the nature of our mandates, at the same time, we do not forget the whole picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56988	Thank you very much. Before we go to the next club representative one notice only. A few colleagues and colleagues asked me to work today without a break, just so we know. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56989	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, today we are discussing three points united, which is quite logical, given that everything that happens and the effects that occur at the mid-term affect movements and trends that have then been shown in the rebalancing, i.e. amendments and additions to the 2017 budget, as well as the final draft law on the implementation of the budget, i.e. amendments to the amendments to that law. What I would like to say at first is just a brief note, so these macroeconomic movements, which the minister has said something about before. So, the fact is that our evaluations and our statistical assessments are much better and much better than we should in any case be commended. And it really shouldn't live in the clouds, but in the reality that we are in, which is in this period, in the mid-term growth of 2.7% of gross social product. In fact, when we talk about the budget, we have to say that all the shifts that occur in any proposal, any changes, any budgets are very sensitive and very visible. Also, every micro-moving actually gives a completely different result, which the Minister of Finance needs to take care of as a whole, and these are actually the effects that we as citizens can very easily criticise. But believe me, it's very difficult to achieve positive shifts and in this way actually achieve this level now and growth, or reduction of deficits. That we did yesterday in a debate over here some fees etc. I'll talk later about how much they do at the very expense of business. So when we say that we've increased someone 600 or 1300 kuna from the basic, the base that he has until then, it doesn't seem very much. However, when it affects whether you will have, whether this person is unemployed and has a fee of 1600 or has a fee in 2003 or 400 kuna, so he has to buy baby food and diapers, then it is very important. And also that employee parent who then has over six months' compensation significantly higher than it has been so far, so that's almost 4,000 kuna. So these seem to be small shifts, but when they're generated in mass, then it's for the finance minister and it's a very big shift. So, macroeconomic indicators are positive, and he came primarily one of the influences is exports of goods and services that affected 3.3 percentage points and were actually increased and that was really increased by 8.6%. Household spending has contributed to GDP growth by 2.1 percentage points and this is the primary impact of net wages growth that we know are due to the impact of tax changes. Gross investments increased to fixed capital by 5.4% and all activities other than agriculture contributed to the growth of gross added value of 2.2%. Of which most trade, transport, tourism, and then industry slightly less. It should be noted that gross earnings in the first half amounted to an average gross salary of more than 8000 kuna. It is nominally 3.4% higher, and realistically 2.3 compared to 2016. The net salary is also higher, i.e. at 5000 average net earnings of 5960 kuna. Inflation as we've heard is somewhere at a level of 1.1%. However, what should be further pointed out is that there is a high liquidity of the financial system. In the last four quarters, a positive balance of the current balance of payments of 1.2 billion euros, i.e. around 2.7% of GDP, has been achieved. The foreign debt was reduced by 2.4 billion euros compared to April 2016. So, in April 2017, it is 42 billion euros. When we talk about the budget's revenues, they're achieved at this half-year 58.3 billion kuna and that's 3.5% growth. In tax revenues, as we have seen, tax revenues are the most significant, in business revenues are the most significant tax revenues that are actually very well achieved and amount to 35.1 billion kuna or 48% of the annual plan. If tax revenues are compared in this half-year compared to 2016 then we will see that in 2017 compared to 2016, we have even high performances especially in income tax although they are somewhat lower than the plan itself. The main changes in the income tax system relate to a reduction in tax rates from 25 to 24% and from 40 to 36%, with an increase in the single basic, personal deduction to 3800 kuna. It is also important to introduce a single tax class of 17,5 thousand kuna. It is very important to mention that in these tax reliefs is additionally reduced, tax liability for pensioners, then in relation to specific areas such as the city of Vukovar etc.. Given the fact that in revenue we saw the achievement of the tax on, the tax itself is very high. Also, something bigger than the plan is the achievement of income from the sale of non-financial assets. Even though what was expected is still insufficient. Budget expenditure has therefore been achieved with, compared to, €128.4 billion planned. Of which, when we look at only the realization of so 59.9 billion kuna or 46.6%. The most significant trend in operating expenditure refers to the expenditure itself, expenditure for employees who have been increased by 2.67%, therefore to the increase in the basis for the calculation of salaries for state and public servants. It should be noted that subsidies have also been made at an amount of €3.5 billion and these subsidies are the best in most agriculture with 2.5 billion and then also direct payments in agriculture and other subsidies related to EU funds, i.e. subsidies in the sea sector, transport and infrastructure and the economy and entrepreneurship. The cost of obtaining non-financial assets has been slightly lower and what should be pointed out in particular that the total deficit of the general budget in the first half has therefore been achieved compared to the previous year, i.e. 35 million kuna or 0.01% of GDP. This, in any case, is a joyous and what the minister himself said, makes us very obliged to continue all these reforms, or progress in terms of reducing deficits, to continue carefully planning and spending our budgets. Budgetary users, here it is interesting that, they have achieved 14.9 billion kuna revenue, it is an increase but it is important here to say that the total expenditure of extra budget users are also below the meaning of the revenue achieved. So that's where certain controls were achieved, and they are now 13.9 billion kunas in the midterm, and they really need to keep it and therefore very high control of extra- budget users who previously generated very high expenditures. In doing so, I must point out that the fiscal rule is fulfilled. Therefore, given that we have come out of the excessive budget deficit procedure, therefore the fiscal rule has also been met under which, according to the procedure itself, our costs, i.e. the movement of general budget expenditure, are in line with the provisional fiscal rule. This is also in line with the ESA methodology. When we say, when we talk about alone, changes and additions to the budget, it is therefore very important that a significant growth in industrial production has been achieved in this period, there has been a growth in traffic on a small number of tourists and everything else, so all macroeconomic indicators have contributed to the very way in which the proposal itself is being amended and complemented. It is important to stress that the planned changes will not increase the level of expenditure affecting the level of budget deficit, that is, what is crucial. It has been evident from the implementation dynamics so far that redistribution was needed on certain expenditure items. This is what we have already partly commented on, therefore, the biggest winners are the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Sea, some finance and the like, so the key is just health care that we will talk about a lot and a lot more about, given that we have discussed it very well at the session and committees and committees themselves. So, healthcare for which it is necessary to find models and ways to not only add or import additional funds inside but to find mechanisms to rationally and spend and how to actually unify control procedures and also to rationalise in the costs themselves. According to these amendments, the proposal I'm sorry, it's too short for me. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56990	Here it is, thank you very much, but that's why you'll have more replicas to complete. So, the first replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56991	Dear HDZ MPs, you're telling us, here I quote "the macroeconomic indicators are good". Well, as madam is respected, good if the whole country falls apart, if the young from it flees on buses, if the number of employees falls in total, if the number is not blocked, if their debt rises. You say high liquidity financial system. Well, half of all the loans given to legal people can't be returned. Which means their liquidity is good. The key question is, what real economy is functioning? And the real economy is falling apart. You're Lex Agrokor, the bankruptcy of Agrokor has been delayed for a year and 3 months. And what happens when it goes away? Then what? You have a situation that people won't be able to charge, these all the believers, they're going to run out of 70% of their claims, and you're telling us here like I don't know that wages are growing, like. So who does the wages grow? Ante Ramljak has a salary of 117 thousand kuna. And what do you count him in statistics? Then what does statistics mean to us? Someone's got a salary of three thousand kunas, I don't know how to say he's got a gross of three and a half thousand kuna and he's got 117. Here's a little short on math. 39 times the salary of that man who's on the minimal. 39 times, ma'am. And what you put 39 on a minimal in the Consume and put one Anta Ramljak here and tell us that the average salary simply doesn't give, these figures that you're saying, they don't really reflect the situation in society because to reflect the situation would be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56992	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56993	The figures we have reflect the state of the budget and certainly when planned and any calculations are done, then they are based on real data. What there are differences in pay itself, it comes from the kind of work, the kind of contract someone does, according to which we will never achieve what you think can become some sort of catch, it will never be because then it would be a completely different system. We are aware that there are problems blocked and similar, surely the previous Governments and this Government would be very happy and working on a certain way to solve these problems and solve problems but that such a simple recipe would have been solved long ago. Therefore, when you look at the structure itself blocked, you will see how many up to 365 days, how many are over it, in which groups of debtors or creditors are individual citizens and legal persons accordingly, it is a very complex procedure and procedure to worry about, on which to work, but the task of the Ministry of Finance is to increase income so that these same citizens can service their debts and live normally. Thus, it is an effort in which these reforms are trying to find the right solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56994	Thank you. My colleague Pernar picked up, if I saw the breach of the Rules of Procedure correctly, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56995	Article 238, the lady insults me as an agent let's call a mental being when she says that these indicators are real and objective when we know that 45 billion kunas: colleague Pernar, please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure./... To repay credit does not lead to budget expenditures and then they falsely show surplus budget, and the actual deficit, respectively, deficit in the case 40 billion. That's what I explained to Minister Maric, but unfortunately, you're all sitting here on your ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56996	My colleague Pernar, you are very aware that you are now abusing the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure, I am asking you nicely not to do so. Please don't do this. It's not at least correct and against other colleagues. The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56997	Thank you, well-respected representative Peric, well, I have not had the honour of sitting in the administration of Agrokor, nor in the administration of HBOR, nor to be governor of the CNB, but some healthy logic tells me that the economy is being driven primarily by tax discharge. So I'd like to ask you, since you wrote in your program that in the second year of your term, you're going to cut the huge VAT by 1%, so to 24%, why did you give it up? Here I am asking Minister Maric, so the programme crediblely states that VAT will decrease by 1% in the second year of the term of office. So tell me, why don't you stick to your own program and why you've given false hopes to people and on the other hand you tell us that you're populists, so that's populism to you. Here, you've spoken one thing, and now you're doing the other. Come on, please cut the VAT to 24%, and then talk to us, and tell us how destructive or constructive we are, or you don't know what kind of things we are. On the other hand, you wrote in that same program of yours, that you would open 18,000 jobs, and that you would only withdraw 7 billion from European funds, so I would like to ask you, how many in those 7 billion kn have you withdrawn so far? And how many of those 180,000 jobs are open. So here's a very specific question, based on your own program. I just want, here's the answer, the same as any other citizen of the Republic of Croatia who goes to the polls, so that in some re-elections they can assess the balance of your promise and your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56998	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u56999	Thank you very much. Here, therefore, the Ministry of Finance is only through the tax so-called. The reform showed that in one segment, in fact, it has had a very good impact on the deficit reduction and GDP growth has occurred. So it can't possibly, in the end, there are checks and... So we're not alone and self-absorbed who appreciates our growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dispersion of citizens, so it was achieved in part and by it, but this government still has a mandate as far as I know, therefore, do not fear that it will not honor what it has written in its pre-election programme. So don't rush. You always go step by step. So the first step is taken, there is a time when it will come to this and gradually reduce other tax burdens, so don't be so impatient. And also for jobs, don't worry, they'll do their best to stay here as a youth of labor and to keep all those promises written in our program.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57000	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57001	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Peric, first of all, would like to commend the way you presented in front of the club means what, these results that have been achieved in the last 6 months of this year, as regards the budget and budget implementation. I would also like to commend the minister, that he has endured all these and the media and attacks from this House, and that, nevertheless, this ministry has managed to lead in one way or another in a satisfactory way to achieve these, these general, macroeconomic, positive results, which give hope of optimism in this society. No matter what he's trying to do here from some parties and some MPs to spread just negativeistic ideology, nothing's wrong, everything's going down. It's not like that. The objective indicators say it's the opposite after all. We all wanted some things to go faster, to make wages grow better, to make bigger revenues, but what's happening now, in my opinion, can satisfy part of our expectations. In particular, I would like to commend that in this budget rebalancing, money has been made to help county hospitals, i.e., general health care for 200 million kn, and I am stressing the assistance of the county road administrations, of 100 million kuna, which will certainly be very good to fix the situation on the good part of our roads, which are being maintained by the county road administrations and I hope that more funds will be found in the future budget, because by 2015, the former government for roads has been greatly cut off by the county administration in the distribution of money from the state budget. In any case, I commend these achievements, and I hope that in the second half, we will have even better results.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57002	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57003	Thank you, Mr. Pelak. My colleague, I am also pleased with the results and effect that this government is, and in this period of short time, with the great pressures that you have mentioned yourself and the great problems that we have actually witnessed in this period and which are being solved parallel to all of these changes that are happening, the many obstructions that exist, but in fact, all together, we and the Government have actually found ways. to solve these problems, as a real view of them, how constructively and quality to solve them, i.e. to offer solutions. If the solutions were easy to find before, we wouldn't be as long in the recession as we were. Therefore, it is also important to say that this government is using to say, every moment to actually come up with certain solutions. Exactly what counterpart Shuker mentioned, therefore, is necessary by refinanceing the commitments that have so far been made with very high interest, in fact to achieve exactly the savings which can then be met by internal redistribution certain standards that are very high. If we want our standards in hospitals are high and we can't say they're inaccessible. Therefore, it is precisely from these savings that it is quality to deal with this by doing normal restructuring and cost-relieving.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57004	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MPs of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57005	Dear colleagues, I would talk about the budget I would not like as your colleagues whether he was at Mr. Maric's meeting with someone or not, the time of the exception. I'd quote you correctly and I wouldn't... You said about health care and, of course, the situation is what it is, and you praise our health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact is also here recently in Kašteli, i.e. in the area of Solina one child couldn't, after death, and we see daily dangerous diseases they couldn't get the cure because it's not on the lists, it's listed in the Public Health Office, and that way it's a huge problem. I would ask you how you consider the functioning of health care where people mainly in undeveloped areas do not have any health care or very small exclusively because decentralised funds across the county, I speak for the Split-Dalmatia County, probably in you alike, are decentralised in a way, so I do not see any logic. You can't believe in Vrgorec for example the device in the laboratories are from World War II. In Makarska, Primorje disaster. We don't have enough labs, basic labs. Also in Sinjska Krajina, in the Drnski region, catastrophic services and that is one of the reasons why people move out and remain old people who are not able and money is being sent from our register, states towards decentralisationd counties, they have been given the power to think of them. Of course, they have more civil servants inside their homes than doctors do, doctors leave, they don't discuss specialization sufficiently territorially because it's not their interest. It's more of an interest that the more officials within the health care center, the more money goes decentralised, the more the county doesn't function, and the more the Ministry of Finance needs to control, whether that health money goes away... to health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57006	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57007	Well, yeah, you have the right to really, you know how organized healthcare is, so there's a system of state hospitals and county hospitals. So in any case responsibility for the level of county hospitals should be at the level of...... And health homes are in the county system, so they have to take care of the standard they have. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So every single unit of regional self-government that has jurisdiction is obliged to record the situation, see what it has, what it doesn't have, where there are actually narrow throats, which needs to be fixed. Besides, you have these emergency systems. So it's simple that every county is obliged to organize in view of our territorial, very generalization of all counties. It is necessary to take good care of how this emergency medical care will be organised, how many teams there will be, which types of teams, whether it can be improved and how it can actually enable the quality of the health system itself to be faster, accessible and able to react quality. Therefore, when you talk about decentralisation in any case, it should be decentralised funds but then obligations must be decentralised so that it is not thought of by the Minister of Health but by every competent mayor or head of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57008	Thank you, and the last replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Peric, the macroeconomic indicators are what they are, someone likes them, someone doesn't like them, but they're good. But what is very important and what needs to be repeated over and over again with this budget rebalance and with the 2018 budget are slowly solved two burning problems that have been practically difficult or impossible to talk about until some time ago. One is health care. I'll talk about him more in an individual discussion. However, not only should it be seen to resolve the debt of a billion and a hundred million health care. It is a billion and a hundred million injected into the circulation of the Croatian economy. Because for those who owe hospitals, etc., they owe someone, and that's one, probably a few thousand users who'll get their money. But what's probably not going to be talked about today is going to go like this because someone's not in the best interest is that the Croatian state with all these indicators and one stable policy has come into a position to go into financial restructuring of its three so to say traffic companies, these are Croatian roads, ARZ, and HAC. And in recent times, some have spent tens of millions on various consultants, and monetization, and this, and that, however, with a different maturity of credit with lower interest rates, infrastructure projects that were the basis for such a good tourist season. Because if there weren't these highways people wouldn't have had what to come by they came into a position that they could practically finance their own obligations. And what Minister Maric is now preparing together with the Minister of Transport is something that, at an annual level, at some rough estimate, these transport companies should burn about 400 million kunas, and let's be honest not only for Croatians, but also for some other occasions, it's big money.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57010	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57011	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Yes, it should be pointed out constantly that the infrastructure that has been made is not a cost ultimately. She's now producing exactly these effects that you've been saying. So by investing in it we have achieved in the long term that we will benefit much more from tourism and tourist visits. What I mentioned earlier is very important. So every finance minister has to take advantage of the moment when these favourable indicators are macroeconomic, when our financial rating is improving, then the interest rates and the environment in which we live are much lower. So, precisely from these savings that can actually be achieved very much in a timely manner, and thus we can contribute to the development or growth of GDP. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57012	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the next club of representatives, which is that of the Most Independent Lists and the time will be shared by the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric and the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57013	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, ministers and associates. Before my comment on the half-year budget implementation report, budget rebalances and budgets 2018, 2019 I simply cannot comment on the fact that there are only twenty of us again when we talk about this very important subject in the Croatian Parliament. This is also the most important document we can bring to this House. I don't really know what's causing it, which is why it's so uninterested about this topic. I also have to say that I hope that the Minister will take these remarks into account that we are precisely on my initiative and on my observations as much as we have regulated the work of the Supervisory Board on the delivery of materials, so I hope that we will also be able to obtain materials on the budget when the budget comes to us more than 7 days before... And when did he come to you before? [[You can't hear it.]] After the government session, we got it. So, if we're going to look at one quality analysis economically and professionally, it's simply too little time, especially if we take into account so many times the proposed constructive opposition that needs to come up with the proposals for a solution, then I really think we need to get a budget that will soon come to us, because it's necessary if we don't talk about the amendments, that it's really and constructively done. As far as these three documents are concerned, I believe that there is a lack of more ambition especially in the current extremely favourable external circumstances. At times when the country's economy and revenues are growing and more than the budget has been planned, the ideal circumstances are actually for reducing public debt deficits and even more than proposed. Not just a deficit reduction. I dare say we should show a little courage and at least show a desire to create surpluses not only on the primary budget. Circumstances are ideal for the accumulation of funds for future times that you trust me will not be as favourable as today, and I'm sure it will certainly come to us. Extremely favourable current international circumstances, historically low interest rates, geopolitical situation in the Mediterranean area that was once our direct competition and which directly reflects the great success of our tourism, extremely favourable weather conditions for summer tourism. So this is the hottest year since temperature measurements, economic growth across Europe has actually been reflected in budget revenues well and beyond any of our influences. It should be fair and said that a small part of it is due to both tax reform and partial dispensation of personal income. Yet we are aware that these are mostly external circumstances that are not eternal, perhaps they are both short-term and that our policy has no impact whatsoever. We therefore believe that these extremely favourable current external circumstances are not used well enough in terms of budget balance, so why not the first budget without deficits, reducing external debt and collecting reserves for the times ahead, which I repeat may not be this favourable anymore. We need to be aware that the wind is blowing in our backs right now, but there will be a moment when it will blow in our chests and when we may regret these times and actions in them that we may have done better. A little while ago, here he was just asking whether this whole growth was actually in one hand and the situation, that is, the result of us becoming desirable to investors. Unfortunately, it is not true as much as we want to read from certain statistics I would personally like it to be true and that we are a really desirable area for an investor. But we still haven't. I hope we get to that very soon. I must point out that it saddens me to see countries, so our neighbouring countries that have already passed us in that position are clear to me that we cannot compete with one Estonia that I don't know in 2011 spent a phenomenal set of reforms. I have to admit, there's a lot of help and their mentality that we still need to work on. However, I can't understand that we've been passed by all the countries that are our neighbouring countries, so I would mention that in fact a few years ago I participated in a event where the representatives of the Macedonian government represented their conditions for investors, where Macedonia's fifth in the world on the terms of investors, fifth in the world. When I looked at all these conditions and all the things they offer investors, there's actually a real reason. But here I'm saying to me it's not, I can't understand that actually we, one Croatia that, by its potential, is far ahead and Macedonia and all of our neighbouring countries are actually allowing us to cross over. As regards both rebalanas and budget projections for 2018 and 2019, nothing is new in principle. The continuation of current policies, the lack of structural reforms, the state at the moment, and I will dare use the word "drive" at the recovery of the private sector and the current practice of buying votes continues and intensifys as if the elections will be tomorrow. What he means to say is that all expenditure relating to the purchase of social peace, de facto buying obedience to the vote, growing expenditure of public sector employees, incentives, etc. As regards the budget or budget projection for 2018, which was made under GDP growth estimates by 2.9% and the budget deficit is planned at 0.5% of GDP. public debt is projected to fall to 76.6% of GDP by the end of this year to 79.8% of GDP in 2018. in 2019 at 73.4% of GDP, while in 2020 it is 69.5% of GDP. This may sound nice, or certainly sounds nice, but a more detailed analysis of how much time we've arrived to actually show each other a story. In fact, the biggest reduction was in 2015 and 2016. In those years, the trend of public debt was reversed, and for the first time, it actually began to decrease. In 2014, the deficit was 4.1 GDP, and in 2015 it decreased and 2.3 GDP was reduced while in 2016 to 0.9% of GDP, and since this year, this reduction trend is significantly disputed and 2017 is 0.6% of GDP, while next year it is planned to 0.5%. In fact, from this point of view, we're saying that the planned decline of the deficit is 0.1% away from enough especially in terms of GDP growth. If we also consider the IMF's opinions and the last visit to Croatia, which is that the structural deficit, the actual deficit without the influence of a favourable cycle actually made structural fiscal adjustment worse, is probably completely gone and we are left to say one happiness and hope that the business cycle and external positive circumstances will continue. In addition, the government has obviously set out on the basis of the introduction of the euro, however, which is why structural reforms should be made and set much more ambitious criteria than 69.5% of the projected public debt in 2020. The IMF itself wrote in the latest report that public debt should fall to 60% by 2022 and if the euro is to be introduced, it is still far more ambitious than 70% in 2020. By proposing a budget or budget projection for 2018, the government predicts that total revenue will amount to 129 billion kuna and will be 6.1% higher than the current budget. While the total expenditure for 2018 will be EUR 133.3 billion, i.e. 5 billion more. However, in the rebalancing of 2017, expenditure falls by 1.6 billion kuna from 128.4 to 126.8 billion kuna, and that de facto means that compared to the rebalancing of 2017, planned expenditures for 2018 are not increasing by 5 billion kuna but by 6.5 billion kuna. According to the budget rebalance, the planned revenue and expenditure for 2018 is actually increasing by the same absolute amount of €6.5 billion and that the budget deficit for 2018 compared to the rebalance for 2017 is, in fact, lower due to the rise in the budget amount itself, although the deficit per absolute number is the same. So, in a favourable macroeconomic environment, there is nothing in the financial consolidation of deeper structural reforms and the creation of an area for anticyclical action when the next crisis comes. We actually see here a lack of any visionary and long-term strategy. As for the ministries, I stress the fact that the 2018 budget projection for the Ministry of Finance envisions 34.6% of kuna and 25.8% less than in the original 2017 budget, respectively. The largest reduction in the amount on the items is expenditure on the payment of principals for issued securities by 35.7% to 11.8 billion kuna. Costs for the repayment of the principal credits received by 35.6% to 5.6 billion kuna and expenditure on financial assets and loans to 35.5% to 18 billion kuna. So we're paying less and we're paying less and we're paying interest in 2018. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, the only call them losers for 2018 are the Ministry of Justice. So we're actually wondering at this time when you're already dividing by hand and hat justifiably or not, whether it's worrying or not that with the Ministry of Finance, the only thing that actually reduces the internal affairs and justice budgets. In all other ministries, expenditure has been increased, the largest ministry of the economy, entrepreneurship and crafts by as much as 27.6% to 2.8 billion kuna and more than 600 million kuna respectively, the rest of the ministry's expenditure has been increased by over 400% to 925 million kuna and by a percentage has increased to a point of compensation to citizens and households, 19.55 million kuna and 732%. The Ministry of Environment and Energy has increased by 25.7% to 3.3 billion kuna, i.e. growth by 674 million kuna, so that I don't now count everything we all have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57014	My colleagues, Ninčević-lesandric, I know why the distinguished representative Ivan Šuker for the breach of the Rules of Procedure appeared, you are always talking about next year's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57015	No, I had the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57016	But now you're talking all the time about next year's budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57017	Didn't we unite all the points?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57018	Not for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57019	Not the budget, the projection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57020	Oh, look at the agenda, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57021	I looked at the agenda and so we have a half-year budget implementation report, we have a rebalance for 2017 and we have...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57022	But not the 2018 budget, you enter the details.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57023	... I've got one more piece of rebalancing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57024	You go ahead, but I just want to draw your attention if it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57025	So if you're going to do one economic analysis, then you're taking everything you have to do to run an analysis. So please these two minutes since my colleague Bulj along with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57026	Time has stopped otherwise, but you're talking about 2018, but you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57027	So I'm telling you, the complete picture that we got, which is very important to give an analysis of what's waiting for us and what we have now on the rebalancing that's been done. ... You make me what my profession is the only time in a year I have a chance to ban, if you can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, as regards budget rebalances and projections, the government's political motives are not in line with the key objective, therefore, GDP growth, there is no doubt that tax reform, i.e., personal consumption preceded this rebalancing in 2017, but the lack of investment and state spending shows that the game is actually on one map, a personal consumption that is not sufficient for GDP to grow above 3%. The increase in personal deduction obviously cannot grow indefinitely and the 2 tax classes will obviously not increase, and they will not simply come down to one tax rate per income, through some level between those who have and those who do not. The Ministry of Finance obviously plannedly composed the rebalancing story in 2017 the story of the introduction of the euro, and the story of the so-called responsible management of fiscal policy and consolidation. This is a classic replacement of resources and targets. Because the euro will not in itself settle our public debt, nor will it implement reforms and address health and pension system deficits. Finally, the rebalancing story has shown that the government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to manipulate it by first taking the goal, so it proves it with no coverage of GDP growth and no reform procedure. I'll give you an example. Here, we'd actually need 8 rebalances per million kuna transfers to HZZO to cover the debt of 8 billion kn. These are actually issues that are not to be discussed by the Government and which are not as pleasant as this combined budget rebalancing story at the general level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57028	Now, the distinguished representative Miro Bulj will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57029	I'll brief the minister, so that's 35 municipalities and cities that are 2015, i.e. Since 2014 the law of 2015 has lost 100 million kn, these are underdeveloped municipalities and cities, the fact they lost 100 million kuna, in 2016 they also got 10 million by compensation and this year 23 million kuna. That's you, take 100 and give someone back 23. In the areas that were unfairly governed by the 2014 Law, however, the SDP Government was essentially wrongly damaged and declared essentially developed. I have given this amendment, and unfortunately it has not been accepted in the talks of the beginning of the year, so that 35 cities and municipalities, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatinski Zagor, are essentially the people of the mayors and the mayors waiting for essentially rebalancing, bloody, to get some kind of kuna out in that area. And now in the end, they get 23% of what was taken from them in 2014. And even less, because they were married in 2015. 10 to 15% is paid less. This is a small step. So we have to pay back one fair bill, and that's what you ministers promised in 2016 in the first government here from this pay phone, in 2000 also in the second government. We talked about it together, it didn't work out. These compensatory measures are due to these parts, Gorski Kotar, Sinj, Sinj, Vrgorac are the most damaged, which is now back part, and that is not even 20% of what was taken in 2014 by law, i.e. of 2015 So, I expect that at least this 15% you gave less, because it explains that you will give the whole thing to 2015 at least this relationship to solve. Otherwise I'm going to give the amendment again, because the injustice needs to be corrected, and I know that it's hard when we talk about amendments and I wish this was included at the beginning of the year, that these people, the mayors, can have certain resources in these local self-governments. However, in this way every year we give essentially at the end of the year these funds. It's much more acceptable to be at the beginning. I think the law thinks that at least it's embarrassing, that in this way we're returning from 123, so out of 100 million we're returning 23 million, we're calling for a demographic renewal, and we basically took all these areas, i.e. 35 municipalities and cities of undeveloped areas. I hope this changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57030	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, they are all on display, distinguished representatives of Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go. So now, he's the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57031	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterparts Ninčević-Lesandric, you are right, in fact, the point is really called budget rebalance for 2017 and projections for 2018 and 2019. To every economist, those macroeconomic indicators that are now, I suppose serve to plan something in the future. That's how I get it. I'm not an economist, but that's how I understand it. And precisely at the presentation of the budget, the minister said, economic growth is based on the contribution of domestic demand and that is what the rebalancing is based on. Because domestic demand has caused income and tax reform to increase. Here I am, the minister is out, but I confess to him that he managed to raise his income by tax reform. Now, where we disagree, if the minister were the manager of our team, if he were running the team tonight, he would perform three very, three steps today, two defensive side players, perform two more defensive scale players, possibly put in one offensive binding and maybe one attacker. And then you'd expect a result. And what can happen, we can get naked very easily, and then we'll see the problems of how we can hit the world championship, and in other words, the ministry announces entering the euro area and that's why... We're reducing the deficit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not a problem with the deficit. I've heard that a lot of economists. Depends on what it's spent on. If we increase the cost of what are they spent on? If expenditure is spent in such a way that we increase our position on a due busnis scale through the exit of construction permits, access to the energy sector, everything, then it's not a problem, and if it goes to consumption, as you said in order to buy votes, so we don't mind any group. And then the problem is the deficit, and then we're so feverishly pushing it. And let me do it again and I said it to the minister so he can really try to lower the VAT rate by 1%, not 1%, 1% next year, for two years for another one, and see what the results would be. Let's face it, these people need a little bit and carrots not just beatings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57032	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57033	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar, we agreed very quickly on this replica of yours and I would use this after you mentioned it in your replica, which is that I respect that Mr. Reiner is an academic and I also expect him to respect that I am an economist and a micro-economicist specializing in entrepreneurship. I have experience in this, except that I studied at one of the 16 universities in the world, so I ask you to respect that when I talk about economics, because you're still going to let me know more about this area than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57034	Okay. Thank you. You didn't really replicate to me. But, well, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57035	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I have to say that I agree with most of your debate, especially in the part where you said that these are extremely favourable terms on financial markets that we didn't actually influence, and the governor's announcement a few months ago that the time of low interest rates had passed. Now that the governor warns us that the time of low interest rates has passed, I am sorry that the Croatian citizens did not feel it and did not feel it for a long time Croatian budget, but here is a short period. We know that surely in the coming years the same as now, as they are said to be saved at these interest rates, so these interest rates can happen to increase. And the same thing I've been talking to my colleague Shucker recently, so in 2007, when we didn't even have a deficit, we didn't have that much deficit, it could have been very difficult to do in financial markets. And that's when my colleague Schucker was able to win, watch out for a 6% interest rate, which is maybe at that point in time from today's perspective it looks very much, and when you look at it, you take that context of that time at all if we could go to the financial market and get some money was one success. We also couldn't repay the euro, only the last few years we could go out on a European market but we could exclusively be in debt in dollars. And we know when we're in charge of the domestic financial market then we're taking money from the economy. And it should always be balanced there, but I certainly agree, and that there should also be caution here, and what you have warned today that the time of interest rates as the governor himself said behind us, unfortunately, should be much more careful when putting together these budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57036	The answer of the distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57037	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you, and for that very reason, and we need to analyze all these projections that we have because how else do we actually know to say today that we don't actually have a long-term strategy and that there's no vision in it. And that's exactly why we need to look at the long-term, not what happened yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57038	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57039	Well, colleague Lesandric, you have pointed out some facts that are known from all of these so far and conversation and probably statement etc.. However, what you have made a big mistake is that you failed to discuss what is the subject and that is a semi-annual report and rebalancing for 2017. The methodology for budgeting is amending and supplementing 2017 and the amendments do not touch the 2018 projections, 2019 which is what you do not know from the Budget Act. Therefore, when the 2018 budget is drawn up, new projections are made for the next period. So this is the period that was planned for last year, so in 2017 with the 2018 and 2019 projections they don't touch in the changes as projections, so it's not dynamic at this point, but it's dynamic at the moment when the 2018 budget is brought and you'll see it in projections that we'll only have as the next point. So you missed that part because you obviously don't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57040	The answer of the respected representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57041	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Grozdana Peric, if I missed the theme, you definitely missed the line. Because it says point no. 2. which is united and says: "A proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and Project for 2018 and 2019". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57042	Okay. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Lesandric, therefore, rightly stated in your review that the favourable conditions for economic growth and then the budgetary situation have gone somewhere since 2014, especially in 2015 when the relative deficit has been recorded. However, what we have now, so thanks to the favourable terms, I would say the conditions in the environment and the macroeconomic conditions of the continuation of this trend of growth. What concerns, however, is certainly a lack of reform. You have again made it very simple and realized that this is the most visible actually based on the fall on the competitiveness scale doing the World Bank's business. So Croatia has fallen even 8 places this year. I would just like to remind myself that in 2014 and 2015 it brought growth on that scale from somewhere 80 to 43 places, we practically doubled that gap, which in that part existed, was partly the impact of the methodology, but most of it was the impact of an intense process of talks with the World Bank, people from the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Investments who were returning to Croatia, preparing regulations, amendments to the law and creating some new conditions of business in Croatia. Unfortunately, this process has stopped. Obviously, there is no work to be done with the World Bank anymore, and that is what concerns us, and that is probably the key reason why Croatia fell on that scale. Because I'll remind you in the meantime, the methodology hasn't changed, and we've fallen eight places.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57044	Thank you. There's no answer. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57045	Thank you very much, colleague Ninčević Lesandric. I listened very carefully to you and when it comes to the budget, the budget is figures but behind these figures is the policy of a government in which the development of a country is heading. Therefore, it is also good to see what projections are for 2018, 2019. And that's why it's budgeting that someone who, because budgeting is a work plan. And so you see what you're going to do, come here and admit that you did something, or that you were doing it wrong, or that you planned it wrong, and that's why we're discussing it. And you have not accidentally mentioned Macedonia here, and that Macedonia is a country that is on a competitiveness scale referred to by fellow Greeks is incomparably better than Croatia. And it's better and it'll still be better if something doesn't change, and something that needs to change, so all possible scales are assessing us objectively, estimating us based on criteria. These criteria, if they change, change for all countries. Well, Croatia won't now, it just changed for Croatia on the trail of what was said. And indeed, Croatia, when we were in government too, grew up to be in a better place on the competitiveness scale, and then the World Bank told us what we should do, what we should do to keep it going. Apparently, a year or two years didn't do anything. And it's exactly what resor needs to be done. Macedonia listened, so Macedonia is not only about finance but parafiscal burdens all in the process. They listened to everything, made everything, and was a unique position to need a major economic uplift in Macedonia. We just didn't do it. We've been standing in the right place for two years, what they warned us to do, we didn't do it, and we're where we are. And we couldn't have been any better. I'm surprised we didn't fall any more than there were 8 places.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57046	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57047	Well, I've been trying to find all these, trying to find all these conditions about Macedonia, but it doesn't matter. I mostly agree with this projection part, because that's why I presented them. So to comment, we analyze the direction of the budget, what is the rebalancing, what is at the very end of the budget. We just need to take all the parameters into account. So we can't look at a blind spot, but we need to see what happened, which didn't work out right, why we're doing rebalancing and what we're planning to do in the future. We just have to consider it to give you some kind of analysis of this little time we've had. As far as Macedonia is concerned, I am now sorry that it is not here, that I cannot find all these conditions that they have made so quickly. But here's a safe opportunity for me to read to you during the day what they've done to actually become the fifth country in the world under the conditions for attracting investors. And I'm very sorry that she didn't recognize Croatia two years ago, not five years ago, but ten years ago. We didn't do it either, not Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, I don't know anymore. We're almost there, and Bosnia is going to cross us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57048	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57049	Honorable MPs, so you said the state has a deficit and it's like a problem. However, the state must have a deficit, the state must pay back more money to society than it has taken from it and here's why. Because that is the only way it can be possible for some entities within the state to make a profit without others making a loss. If you try to imagine a group of us here of 151 MPs as a state and if all the money we have is the one who currently owns a win for one MP is necessarily a loss for another. And when the state as a system wouldn't give more money to society than it takes people to accumulate their losses over time and go bankrupt. What is a problem in Croatia is not a budget deficit. The budget must be aggressive, politics must be expansional. What's the problem is the outflow of capital, is that billions of kunas are going beyond our country's borders, that we're paying off 45 billion kuna loans this year. That's the problem. And that's the problem nobody's talking about here except us from the Living Wall and everybody's pretending like it doesn't exist. So it's not a problem with the deficit. The other pair of gloves is where the deficit is financed. I also argue that many other economists should be financed through direct emissions from the Central Bank, that the role of the Central Bank is to finance the budget deficit rather than to finance private bank loans. Unfortunately, from your speech, I have the impression that you are simply on the line of mein streams if we can say so, that is, the way of thinking that is dominant in our country, which has led us here where it has taken us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57050	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57051	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would refer to Mr. Pernar's replica. When Mr. Pernar says that it should not be the goal of the Ministry of Finance and these governments exclusively to reduce the budget deficit, he is right, because reducing the budget deficit necessarily means austerity measures. You talked and less money goes to the citizens. You were talking about fiscal consolidation. This story of fiscal consolidation is not the story of this government. It's a story that lasts a long time, and it's a story mostly of the International Monetary Fund, and it's not just that term of fiscal consolidation, there's internal devaluation, internal devaluation also means cuts in wages and pensions and ultimately privatisation of all state resources. We recently had the opportunity to see which measures the IMF proposed for Croatia, one of these measures was to increase the retirement threshold. It means 67 years if I'm not mistaken. So those policies that are imposed by international financial institutions that in principle always look at the interest of banks' capital, they are subject to review and you as a young colleague, should definitely question their instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57052	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's that national minority in the name of the distinguished Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 with projections for 2018 and 2019, the national minority club will, of course, support with several findings that we care about and concerning mainly works relating to human rights and human rights financed from the domain of human rights and the rights of national minorities with several findings, which is why some things should change in our opinion. So first of all one casual reading of this amendment and supplemental proposal actually leads us to the findings that are at first sight defeating until it enters into the depth of the reason. Once entered into the depths of the reason they remain defeating but we understand why. But now I'm going to explain what's going on. For example. We have several items that are important to finance national minorities, associations of national minorities. One and that is where the main money for associations goes is the Council for National Minorities and there remains everything unchanged so that there are no additional findings at least on our part. However, the second item is the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. And here we are immediately encountering an item called whatever it means and no one has been able to figure out what it means but we are on a good track to get that information and to meet it is called meeting the preconditions for effective implementation of policies aimed at national minorities. I was explained today that these are international projects because there is one minus of more than 4 million kuna and these projects are in the contract phase, they will be agreed in the 12th month, this is the part that Croatia has to give and will actually be realized in the following year. It sort of calmed us down. The Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, however, has one fairly significant figure that although the data is not clear until the end, it has been explained to us that it is not reduced, which goes for institutions both for associations and for the needs of national minorities. In previous years, these were the figures that were indicated for every national minority, and now that figure is global. I think we should open up a space to think about going back individually and transparently to how much of it goes to every national minority so that we can explain it to our voters and also explain to the whole society and show the relationship we have at this point towards the budget, or towards the coalition that we support. Then when we move on to more human rights and the Office of Associations, to civil society, I was amazed that the Association Office gets 1/3 less money than 64.8%, 1/3 less money than planned, so that's actually instead of 147 million, right, 51 million less, means less than 95 million and something. When I called the head of the office, I was also explained that it was European projects that have not yet been implemented. When we see this sequence of minuses, we realize that the common name is unrealised European projects. That's why I said before when we talked about there being less money than expected, you'd be amazed first, but then you still have a really road question, but there's an explanation. Non-fulfilment of European projects. Why don't these European projects come true today, we have some news in the paper, just an hour ago, which is said to be 2 billion kuna. Who knows if the news is true or not, it's from the newspaper that 2 billion kunas didn't come true. Why didn't they come true? That, of course, is the Ministry of Finance's last, how can I say, last string in that chain, he only comes here when they're done, when the whole story is over. That means it's not the Ministry of Finance's criticism. It's a criticism in government corner institutions. in that case, but not in the government, and in that case the government, which also plans the funds more than I can realize, is one thing, which is already wrong. And the other thing is that it's even more wrong, in my opinion, they're working too little on making the funds real. They don't bend their sleeves enough to make those funds come true. Ours as a club of national minorities who are interested and natural for our resources, but we are interested in both the case and the civil society funds and in general for the state's economy. It is recommended that, this same approach to seriousness in all of this, both in planning and in rolling the sleeves for realisation. Because otherwise, we're going to be insecure, and we're not going to have, to others, no means to ourselves. So that's why I'd like to say two things about income, a reduction in realisation and an increase in resources. So as for revenue, the main reduction is on the European Regional Development Fund's resources, i.e. less withdrawing funds from that fund. As regards the reduction of realisation, the largest reduction in the means of realisation, the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion in 2014 and 2020 total of 140 million and some kuna. Similarly with the EU Project Co-financing Fund, less than 70 million kunas are available so far. But there are also increases in funds in some places. This should be commended, the increase in funding for the Regional Development Fund, the development of assisted areas ratios of 70 million kuna compared to 35 million kuna. So double. So index 48.1 in the development of assisted areas and index 110.3 in the European Regional Funds, at the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund, but this is the 35 million. And that's where I'd ask the question, they're in that part of the Ministry of Regional Development called the other income for special purposes. So the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund, there are 2 items in this paper, one is the European Regional Development Fund and there are 127 million less realised. So the index is less than 50%, less than 50, and what's increasing from 35 million is remaining revenues for special purposes, we don't know what these other revenues are for special purposes, that's one questionnaire for us. And we'd like to know, because there's a series of projects that stay unrealized for years and concern, for example. infrastructure. My colleague Pupovac used to talk about electricity. I'd like to underline. It's unimaginable. No, it's not a minority question, it's a question, a country's development. It's unimaginable that some places aren't electrified yet. It's unimaginable in the 21st century in a country that has greatly contributed to the invention of electricity, is that with Tesla. It's unimaginable that some housing problems aren't solved yet. And besides, there's also a large questionnaire. From the housing care of persons with approved international protection, asylum seekers, the index is 14.7. So instead of 6 million and 415 grand, spent, realized 940000 kn. Five million kunas have been lost. We had fewer asylum seekers than expected, we fed them less, we treated them badly, what's the matter? It's a question that remains very clear. And finally, as a commendable one, I want to point out something about my national minority, a promise has been kept by the Ministry of Culture, that the rebalancing will reach that level that was previous years. When I talk about previous years, I'm talking about those years, before some culture ministers from the past government can count them 100 times, because they're not present today as MPs, they're downsized. So those before colleagues of Hasanbegovic, we went back to a million and 300 for edit, because at first a million was planned, then we said that the real number was always a million and 300, million and 300 is. I know that this is foreseen for 2018, and I consider it to be one, to say a good promise, yes, but that promise is contained in our operational plans, and the operational plans the government signed with national minorities, with representatives of national minorities, are something to be respected because it is, of course, the basis of every real and good cooperation. So we're going to vote for this rebalancing, the motion to amend and supplement the state budget, and with a request to keep in mind, that there are certain doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57054	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Furio, here I was trying to help you understand these figures that have appeared here by newspaper, related to EU funds. So in this year and in this rebalancing, as well as in the first six months' report, the total funds, therefore, are EU aid, that are spent at the level of the € 4.5 billion circus, of more than 11 billion, are planned. So in those 4.5 billion in the first half of the year, 3.5 billion is about to support farmers. So you get the funds and you distribute by certain criteria. So it's not about EU projects. Only about a billion kuna has been spent on projects in the last half year. Based on this, the government has obviously decided to assess the dynamics by the end of the year to reduce that amount and that is the 2 billion it has taken down through rebalancing. But the big question is whether or not these little more than 9 billion will be used by the end of the year, if 4.5 and then angle. agriculture, where it's easy to spend funds, spent in the mid-life. Yesterday I heard on the Committee on Finance that the current state of exploitation is about $6.5 billion. So about 2 billion in 4 months is additionally paid. And over the next two months, more than 2 billion kunas are to be paid, as realistic as that is, to reach 9. So that's about the calculation, but what is the biggest problem of the story, which is a hundred and twenty percent of the funds used so far, in the new financial perspective of 2014-2020, very small. This morning I watched the latest data on the EU pages, only 2.4% of total 11 billion euros were paid, which is devastating for Croatia. That's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57056	The answer of Honorable Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57057	A very short answer. So there's doubt, of course. I am sure that both, me and my fellow Greeks, we hope that these funds will be used to a much greater extent, as this is no longer a question of competition between the position and the opposition, but a question of the country's well-being.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57058	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next club representative, that's the HNS on behalf of which will speak the distinguished representative of Christmas Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am, in front of the HNS Club, expressing my satisfaction that we have continued the positive movements that we received in the first 6 months of 2017. So we have real GDP growth of 2.7% compared to 2016. A total of 58.3 billion kuna revenues, which is more than 2.4%. Total tax revenues are 31.5 billion kuna, and in this, the largest growth marks exactly profit tax, which is higher by 16.5%. We have this through tax reform where we cut that 20 to 18%. However, they were paid for this year's bigger advances, because we know that by the end of the 4th month they had to be paid at 20% for last year, so all this shows that our companies, our companies, are doing better. Or that our economic operators have strengthened and are doing a positive job. The result is, these are the data of the macroeconomic situation, but I'm sure it's been contributed to a lot by tax reform. So we have positive movements in personal consumption, where the growth in the store is a little 5%. But what is particularly joyful is the increase in investment and, after a long time, the increase in construction, where we record a growth of 1.7% of the index in the volume of construction works. We haven't really had that in the past few years, actually, I don't know when the last time we had positive that data. Today, we heard from the minister that this good situation in the budget has contributed greatly to the reduction of interest. So in 2016 there was a reduction in interest of 762 million kuna, that even more is expected in 2017, and that is really important, if we know that interest accounts for 3% in the structure of GDP. And I believe that we are all aware that this interest reduction has not only contributed to the reduction of interest rates at the level of Europe, i.e. on the world market, but has also contributed to the stability of our country, our tax system, our stability in all parts of the state's business. And I'm sure our ratings will increase and we'll get even lower interest rates. Today, like many days here, we talked about the problem of employees related to this normally and the problem of pay. The problem of employment is not only a significant issue for the state but every citizen himself. Often there was a methodology and whether we have an increase in employment, whether we have a decrease in employment, whether unemployment alone is higher. I'm glad we heard regardless of the methodology that the 1% increase is the way we look. But from my point of view, the most important thing is that people work and earn income. That is why I believe that this information that is displayed in the JOPPD form is a relevant data that we can use. Because it doesn't matter if someone earns income from out-of-the-way work and pays taxes and contributions on that basis and normally has its own income. Does he earn his income as an independent entrepreneur, and with that basis he achieves it. Or if someone is making their income on other grounds, such as copyright, so I think that all those who make such incomes are our painters, writers, musicians, other artists work and they have their incomes on that basis and they pay taxes and contributions. So every person who makes any income based on his work, he's an employee no matter how we look at it. The other thing is pay. I agree that, with this tax reform, we have taken a certain step and freed some of the income, i.e. we have made greater wages through these tax charges. I believe, or I'm sure all our citizens think that's not enough for them. And it really isn't enough when we see what minimum wage is and that we need to seriously think about raising the minimum wage. I believe that our economies too, because we see that pay increases are going to be accepted, given that they are also working on discharging the economy and that they certainly have a certain share that they will be able to pay for, or for the greater satisfaction of their workers, or our citizens. As far as the rebalancing is concerned, it is actually a technical rebalancing due to this better business, or better performance, we have an increase in revenue from 876 million kuna, a reduction in deficits from 1.9 to 1.2 GDP. However, what was also mentioned here, I agree that this part of the 1.9 billion kuna that has been shown has not been withdrawn from the EU and these are the aid of countries that we do not have in revenue, although they are not in expenditures. But I hope that it really is only about dynamics and that it will be visible in early 2018 because if we really don't have that particular continuous dynamic and if we don't reach it, it's a big question of how much EU funds and these funds will be used. This rebalancing provides funds to increase certain positions, up to a billion and 100,000, million, 1.1 billion for healthcare. We know that this amount will not solve this problem, and that is clear to all of us, but it will help and we know it. And that it should be discussed in other ministries, certainly, primarily the Ministry of Health, but here we need, to call reform, to reform, but perhaps some changes that are not so difficult but will contribute to a better business of our health. 175 million kuna goes to the Ministry of Science and Education and to pay, which is good. We have this 266 million kuna written by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. In fact, we know when we had this report from the FINA that some of the debts that were in 2003 and 2011, which will finally be settled here. And we welcome the decision to give the ZUCs at least aid in the form of 100 million kunas which will not solve the problem but will at least help them in their business. And finally we have 558 grand for local self-government units that have mountain-mounted status. And we all know by breaking the law how much they lost and what a difficult situation they've been in. This is the part for 2017 trying to calm down but we see that there is now going to be another reading of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government which I am sure will contribute to a more even development of Croatia for which we are all really in favour and I am sure that we will support it. However, for each of our citizens to expect more, it is normal and the state as such must try to provide them with it. And I think that through this law on the financing of local self-government units exactly those units whose fiscal capacity has been at stake over the past few years, perhaps for the last 3 years, as this has been a continuous reduction of various incomes with the basis of taxes as well as other aids, will give them wind in the back, or help their citizens feel that they live in Croatia equal chances. Thank you very much. The HNS Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57060	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative John Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57061	Respect. I wanted to ask you, ma'am, you said the most important thing was that people work and earn income. But what about 100,000 pensioners who have a pension of 500 kuna or less? What kind of work do you recommend to them? Is it for someone who lives out of 400 kuna, 350 kuna pensions is it some unsolicited work, independent work I don't already know which one you're targeting, or is it actually the most important statement that people work and make incomes is actually suggested to them that they should dig through the trash because this government has no intention of helping them or raising a minimum pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57062	Thank you, too. Mrs. Macar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57063	Comrade Pernar, I do not believe that you feel more sensibilities with our pensioners and with our citizens than I or any colleague or colleague here in the Croatian Parliament. And I wasn't talking about the pensioners I'm aware of today. I was talking about the methodology of the calculation and what we are often outwitted about. And I believe, and I have made my point that everyone who works and earns income from unsuspecting work, income from independent work or income from works of art earns income for life and can be recorded as such and considered an employee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57064	Thank you, too. Now Mr Branko Hrg will speak in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our Club, the Croatian Democratic Party Club, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party, the HDSSB will support changes in the 2017 budget. But a few sentences about the document itself, or the documents that were offered in this united debate. One sentence that the minister said at the beginning of the budget rebalancing sort of went into my ear and I recorded, Minister, you said we're spending as much as we do and how much we have. It is a sentence that unfortunately very rarely those who have budgets at any level and use it and very rarely use it. There are cases, but they're a little isolated cases. Most budget money is spent and spent well ahead and much more than can be achieved. We also have such examples in these documents where some documents today show that this is the very way of spending, such as in the Environmental Protection Fund, which last year had to be in charge of some 500 million kunas, to see that this is slowly stabilised and that the planned minus is basically meaningless and I am glad that this is happening in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, that it can start working again normally because at this time, because of the recovery of this spending in advance, the spending of what was not from the time of the Government of the Kukurik Coalition and then Minister Zmajlovic, this Fund has been working on lera in these last two years. What is very important and important here and highlighted is said and what needs to be repeated, and the minister also said about this, that the tax discharge has actually led to an increase in revenue in the budget. The income tax basically remained at the same level he did not change. According to local self-government, it was orderly to comply with those legal provisions on balances every 15th of the month, so there was one stability. And it is very important to achieve budgetary stability to know exactly what is there and what can be spent. But definitely given all these good indicators presented in this budget rebalancing, I think it would be time for the next period to get a little stronger and think a little harder about increasing minimum wages. But not for 100, 200 kuna. We've been doing some calculations, some projections, and we've come up with a calculation that if the minimum wage in the net amount of 4,000 kuna was paid in Croatia, that the state budget would be lost under quotes, about a billion and 100 million kuna per year, with that income tax base, but that due to increased consumption and increased social security would at the same time earn about a billion and 600 kuna more from VAT. According to the data we came up with about 53, over 53% of the goods found in our shops are Croatian origins, Croatian production. We all have a perception that that's not the case. Here's what we've been researching, we've come up with this data, which means that automatically increased consumption, and that means buying is spent, however, and most of the goods are domestic consumption, which would also allow for increased production. Here is one way of thinking about the ministry to really consider it, because today we definitely have a problem with small salaries and a large number of young people are basically leaving the country for bigger salaries because simply for some minimum wage that is in Croatia today is impossible for three family members to work for minimum wage can't fill that union basket. And without that social security, without some normal minimum financial status, we can hardly expect any more significant development. There is a small item in the distribution of the 5 million kuna Ministry of Agriculture. It refers to helping to equip professional agricultural schools. It is small but it shows well, and I hope that such a similar item will appear in the following year and in the projections for the years behind, that it will start again with the model of preparation and that I will say such equipment of vocational schools in agriculture as well as professional schools in crafts interests because without such investments we will hardly make that progress in the sector. I'm going to look back on the apostrophe 100 million kuna for the ZUCs. Absolutely to say hello, but it's only the recovery of a quarter of the damage caused by the reckless move of then Minister Hajdas Doncic, who took the ZUCs, I repeat it often here and today I will repeat, in one wave of about 400 million kuna. After that, new legal changes took another 100 million kunas, and the roads remained. And today, really, as it has been said here on several occasions, we have a situation that the County Road Administrations simply cannot meet those minimum standards on the largest number of miles of roads that we all drive around Beautiful Ours. These 100 million kunas are already deployed in one good part of 20.30% already. That difference will be distributed by the Zuc. We hope that this will be by fair criteria, by common rules known, that all the elements needed to distribute will be respected, that those who need more, who need more to get more, and those who do not need so much to get less to get the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in that part of the settlement. But that's not enough. That's not enough. And if in the next three years, the ZUCs don't return at least the amount that was taken from them in the term of the Kukuriku Government, then we'll have long-term big, big problems. And I really appeal to both the minister and the ministry for this problem to be considered once again, to see and exert all the possibilities for that part of the money to be returned, to make a rule that will be made public, published, where exactly the criteria of the score will be determined, and where that money will be distributed really according to the fair recipe. Because those 400 million kunas that were taken away from the ZUCs were then divided by the ZUCs but by an arbitrary decision by one man without any rules, regulations or criteria. Today we all suffer the consequences of it together. Let's say the ZUC of Koprivnica and Križevci County, in Križevci, was taken for over 30 million kunas over four years. Now imagine how something can be done and done on those roads in the first place. What concerns me a little bit, and I would like to ask for an additional clarification of 1.9 billion revenue from assistance from European funds because of probably a variety of problems that we face in the use of European funds, so it might be a little bit more detailed to hear where this was most of the problems, where it was most reflected, where it failed to use that part of the money. We know we have major problems with these regional waste management centers. Is that in that sector, where elsewhere because it's definitely real to me that we have a situation here, we all know that we have to solve something, we all know that it's supposed to be done, but it's always not in my backyard, not at my house. And now, in principle, in that part, and this part of the Environmental Protection Fund is bound to threaten both penals and penalties, and I'm afraid we won't be able to avoid that part, so here I'm really interested in where the most trouble is that 1.9 billion must be removed from the aid from the European funds. In addition to these few proposals, suggestions and questions from the HDS Club, HSLS, the HDSSB will support this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57066	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrg. We don't have any replicas, that's pleasant news. And now we have Mr. Branimir Bunjec in front of the living wall and the SNAG.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57067	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are talking today about budget rebalancing and I would like to highlight one part of this rebalancing, which is the most sensitive part that a part of my colleague has already apostrophe during today's debate, which is that the EU withdrawal plan has failed one billion kuna. To make the old man even worse than the EU funds contracted, only 15 to 20% were paid. So the situation is much worse than it's shown in this budget, and that's not the first time. So it's not now that in 2017 it's some sort of individual emergency situation, it's a rule. It's repeated year after year. We have this in 2015, 2016 again in 2017, and I think it's finally time for someone in this country, someone in this House to open their eyes and realize that the problem is systemic, not that the problem is in one or another minister, in one or another government, even if they're not really how different by the policy they're having. And here we come to the situation, so we have to face the fact that every year Croatia pays in European and European funds 3 and a half billion kuna, and withdraws less funds than we have paid. So, in a very simple dictionary, we've given more than we've received. And so year after year. And it is very important that, given yesterday's debate that we have heard here about the European Union and I don't know about the government's policy, that we break one myth that is now completely exposed, at least to me, I hope that it will eventually be to the other MPs. Because I see some people here are asking questions, and the answer is actually very simple. So how is it that we give more than we withdraw from the European Funds? So very simply, we give 3 and a half billion pure money without any obstacles, without any fulfillment of the conditions, without any formalities, and in order for us to pull back those funds we have to meet an incredible number of conditions that our country, bureaucracy or if you want associations are unable to meet. Partly because they do not have human and other potentials, and partly because they are European means are given in a way that you can practically not reach them. So, knowingly, there are obstacles that can't be achieved. Because, for example, European projects must be co-financed, so some co-financing means must be provided if these funds are not provided, you will not get the money. Secondly, money is often obtained only when the project has been fully implemented, which means that you have to provide even more funding than co-financing to get to these EU funds at all. How can these funds be obtained? It can be obtained so that we actually have to be in charge of banks that are, of course, all foreign property so that we can co-finance and finance part of project implementation in order to then come up with those funds that we see only 15 to 20% of this year. In addition to our co-financing, you can imagine in such a complicated procedure how many tens and tens of thousands of hours of work are spent in our local administration, in our ministries, the best staff in their work hundreds of millions of kunas give in order to even apply to these European competitions. And that's, of course, money you can't see, but it's real. So they gave their time, so they gave their knowledge and that, let's say the indirect cost would also have to be included in the withdrawal of EU funds. So, it gives not only Croatia 3 and a half billion kunas of pure money but Croatia gives some billion more, two more through work, through time, through co-financing, through borrowing, through administration, logistics, etc. And what do we get back? Back we get twice as much funding as we have paid, but not funds that will address the priorities of the Croatian economy, society in general, but funds that will solve the problems of the European economy. Their imaginary politics, not ours. I don't know Germany, France, and other developed countries. So these European funds serve them primarily, not Croatian citizens. Because the European Union is therefore not Caritas, nor is it sharing money with the poor, nor is it giving money to the undeveloped from some goodness, but is giving money to implement its own policy, and it is known in whose interest this policy is. This policy is the four, five strongest Member States that want to impose their standards on all other smaller Member States. Among other things, where is this money that we need to withdraw from the European Funds. It is assigned exclusively to the target. So Croatia cannot decide what the money will be spent on, or to what purpose these money will be withdrawn. And what is very important then is often that money we get we have to return to the EU. In what way? Through public procurement, through the so-called. consulting contracts and various other ways. So we again and from the 3 billion that we have received one large part of this cake does not stay in Croatia but goes out because these were the terms of the allocation of these funds. Generally, to reach the EU, there is a need to fill tons and tons of paper. I believe, here I see that Representative Roscic has already prepared to replicate me. She knows very well that you would at all participate in the procedure you have to fill in tons and tons of paper, and then when the competition passes, when you finally implement it, you get some funds then you have to fill out tons and tons of paper to justify this project. And whoever did this once knows very well that it's so tiring, so stressful, so stupid that you just give up that you're ever involved in some kind of project again. Here I was watching a project that was conducted at school, where the school bought 50 scissors and one scissors cost three kunas. And with the school heading 50 scissors with one account that says 50 scissors times 3 kuna 150 kuna, she had to add 50 bills per 3 kuna, 50 bills per 3 kuna had to be added. How bureaucratic and complicated. Well, then who in their right mind would continue to seek any means whatsoever. People just give up on it, give up, not get bullied by it. And this is purposely so designed for the EU to say look, we'll make 11 billion available to you, but he already knows in advance you won't get 11 but 3. And then he says so it's your fault, we offered you 11. So they could offer 111 when in practice they can't withdraw those funds, they can't back down. So it's a myth. People believe they have some means at their disposal, and they can't reach those resources. And that's why we have a hole like this in the budget, a hole. And now imagine 2 billion kunas missing, someone was planning. And now, how am I supposed to approach that man? To tell the ministers, you said two billion. And where are those 2 billion? He'll say ha, listen here. Oh, no? Is that a way to communicate? Then you should take some responsibility for it. You should say sorry here is 2 billion you said it would be, it wasn't. Go ahead and resign. He'll tell her how destructive you are. But for me, it's a serious policy. If you're planning on doing something, you'd better go ahead and do it. You didn't execute, I'm sorry. Go back to Agrokor. And what can I say? So here I believe now after a few years very plastically proven that European funds are essentially not what they were supposed to be on paper. On paper is one thing, practice is another. For this reason, the logical question is how to resolve this situation, which is the solution. Here I am going to tell you what seems to me to be some logical solution. To tell the European Commission, look, we no longer want those funds from European funds. You keep it to yourself. We'll keep our three and a half billion. There. Dil, we to you, you to us. You just take yourself as much as it is on paper as you keep it, we'll stick to your 3 and a half billion, we'll call the competition ourselves, split the money, save hundreds of thousands of hours of precious time for our employees, and that's it. Well, then when you're truly credible in your politics, when you change your terms in a way that you give us more than you've received, and that's what you're always saying is supposed to be when we give the kuna, and you give us back two, then okay. Then we'll be paying the membership fee again, there's nothing before that. Because you say you're developed, we're underdeveloped. So you're going to help us, but in practice we're helping you. We finance Germany and France, not them us. We give them subsidies, we create jobs for them, not for ourselves with this policy of European funds. There, the answer is very simple. Let's go next year and say no EU funds, we want the 3 and a half billion kuna we already have, our money, and we'll get through better, I guarantee you. And immediately we will have for pensions a little bigger and for salaries a little higher and for youth unemployment, for housing I guarantee. There, fair enough. Thank you very much, the European Union, to you and your funds. Change the rules of the game and we'll play with you again. What else can I tell them? I have nothing else to say, so to speak, but gentlemen dear, there is one proverb that says "car is naked". European myth funds and some a little sharper would say fraud. The Croatian people have drawn a thicker end with European funds. He was deliberately deceived as much as in the case of a Swiss franc and all other so-called. a product that dragged us into an unequal relationship about the same way as when the whites first came to North America gave the Indians two mirrors, and they gave them a kilo of gold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57068	I think they shot first, then gave the mirrors. We have four replicas. If I've seen correctly and Mr. Bully has answered the line. Isn't that right, Mr. Bull? I thought so. So, Mrs. Rostice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57069	Thank you. Here's what I find interesting is that a colleague, too, is a professor. The Greek reported it. Because just when you mentioned EU funds, I did when I came to the first hour of Professor I was a big Eurosceptic, and I was thinking about what we're doing right now, all the European funds, if we're going to pull it back. I agree with you with all the facts you've said, but you can't impute your opinion. So, I agree that applying to European projects is both stressful and tiring, and a lot of times she's tired of me and I wouldn't sleep with those applications, but I don't agree that she's stupid and I don't agree that we're not going to get what we're investing in. The fact is, at this early age, we give a lot of our money and we give it in our own way, and when we want to get that money out, then we need a strategy, then we need a plan, then we need an analysis. But that doesn't mean it's stupid, because then we need to measure the effects. That if you give some money to someone doesn't mean you'll have a good effect, so with that way of planning, doing a strategy, doing a feasibility study, we can have a bigger impact with less money. We can create more jobs, we can have sustainable projects. Because what you're saying is wrong. So I just concluded my decisions on Tuesday with 32 farmers who I worked on reporting projects and each of them got, so the total mass was over 3.6 million kuna. And before the Ministry of Agriculture allocated funds to agriculture, then the farmers would say we want that tractor. And they'd get the money and they'd be driving in a month of those tractors. And now that these funds are being allocated, we look at how much they have the surface of the land, what strength tractors they need to increase production. Not to ride with Ferraris on a small part of the surface and that the effect of spending such public money has nothing. Here's what I mentioned on this example of tractors but also on many others when we talk about hotels and other funds for which we give public money, we need to know that we give public money for those costs that increase both employment and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57070	Thank you, Mrs. Roschcic. Thank you. I'd let you talk for another half hour, but time's up. Mr. Bunjac's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57071	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Roscic. So you have your own concept that is on the line of your government policy where you simply blindly trust everything that comes from the European Union. You simply Branimir Bunjac from the Living Wall, I don't know, maybe if I lived in Brussels you might find it more interesting. Maybe then you'd say, "Look how smart he is." But here I live in Chakovec, and you immediately disqualify it, no, he doesn't know that well, that my prime minister knows better and those good uncles out there who live 2,000 miles away. But I'm running some kind of sound logic, so I'm looking at that budget. So if I see three years of 2015, 2016, 2017, we withdraw less funds than we give, then it's a missed policy for me. And now I'm asking you, you say they've got 32 peasants. So let's give me three and a half billion of that membership fee. Let's leave it to you. I guarantee he'll get 132 peasants, not just 32 tractors. So what happens now if there's a budget gap again in 2018? And then who's gonna be responsible for that? Do I, in your opinion, do I not understand the economy and European politics, or will you, after all, be responsible? Do something. Then if you think it's all the way it has to be, the way it's supposed to be, then get those funds out of the European Union. You wrote 11 billion, so let's give 11 billion to see them. If, I don't know, if I can't withdraw, resign or change things. There's no fourth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57072	Thank you, too. Mr. Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you spoke of withdrawing funds from the European Union. I do not agree with you that projects should not be written, projects should be written, but I agree whether the Agency at the Ministry of Agriculture, if that is possible, is only happening in Croatia for a year, that it has not given an answer to the units of local self-government that have reported with various projects. Well, I think it's inadmissible in the country, and I think it's only acceptable for us in Croatia. And because of this, there is no withdrawal of funds from the European Union, there is money. But another thing that happens to the public is that units of local self-government have not designed projects and there are no projects that are very wrongly presented in public. There are projects, but I really don't know from ruling know why the Agency is incompetent? Or let her loose. We don't need the Agency, and this is how we have an agency in Croatia that doesn't do anything, unfortunately. Are they incompetent and cannot resolve a year's competition according to measure 7:2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57074	Thank you very much. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57075	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I mentioned it in my speech that simply Croatia does not have the human and logistics capacity to withdraw these funds. It may have Germany, it may have France, but we just got into something we're not ready for. And this other side of the medal you're now talking about is that they won't answer you for a year. I get the same, it's amazing to me, I have to admit that sometimes I am literally ashamed that people in our country have to wait so much for some sort of banal thing like answering an email, answering a phone call, answering a tender documentation. I don't know, I'm a historian, I used to read about how Napoleon defeated the Austrian army in 15 days, and the Russian army had no cell phones, no means of transport, nothing, and it takes us three months to answer your email. I think that in the Middle Ages there was communication between people faster, some correspondence, some kind of conversation, that things were working out faster. Well, it's just scandalous that they haven't responded to any contest for a year. Well, that, that, that kind of people should literally fly from their jobs. They should learn some basic culture, which is that they should respond to the default deadline within 48 hours. It's been in the U.S. for 48 hours getting rid of it. This is among other things a matter of even bonton, and not just the behaviour of the state administration, that you let not the parliamentary representatives, farmers, dissident citizens wait for years for one answer, let alone a solution to their situation. Here I appeal to all those who are in such a position to move people, you get very high wages, you have great responsibility. Either you do your job or don't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57076	Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57077	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, here I have wondered how much the construction of the Peljega Bridge has come. They say about 2 and a half billion kuna, and the annual amount we pay in the EU is not much smaller, even if not bigger. Therefore, I was personally against voting to join the EU and I am not ashamed of it, not that I am a smaller European than the left, right and the middle who came down here at the time. Because I'm simply a public man who likes to read, listen, love. I had no information for which reason not in the EU or what the triba was to fix or what the negotiating teams were negotiating. So they negotiated that we were paying as you said your money in the EU, so that our municipality that has no ability to do certain projects according to their standards, their policies and that we would get their money. That's right. So we pay our money to meet other people's terms. Maybe that's where certain groups profit from that have their own project bureaus, I don't know those people who deal with funds. But generally, in this way, they teach the EU and don't talk about this publicly, change the laws, enter one, essentially one common country where everyone sees their own interests both in Germany and in the big countries and in the lobbies of all sorts. Well, we've been taken over, and we don't know who's going to build a phone, optical network infrastructure. Croatia should work, not Germany. I don't know if the Prime Minister asked Merkel who would work or maybe ordered him to work for the Germans. That's why I think that praising something that's not right and getting caught up in something that's not good in a well. Multiannually, we invest in EU money It's the Peles Bridge. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57078	Thank you, Mr. Bull. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57079	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. Yeah, you weren't at the very beginning of my debate. So we are really giving more than we are receiving and what is still very important is I repeat tens of thousands of people in Croatia spend their valuable time filling out the tender documentation and working on the implementation of these European projects which further increases, so the undisclosed cost of payment in the EU funds. And they promised us that when you came in, you were poor; you were underdeveloped; we would give you for every one of those kunas two kunas, three kunas, and that would be fair. Because we, among other things, have opened our market to the European Union. They're now mass... We handed over our banks to them, we gave them no company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They've already made huge extra profits here, so now I'm not saying that we've sent 200 thousand workers to them there, that they're working on some strategic positions and now they're giving us and that membership fee less than we've paid them. It really doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. Let the conditions under which these funds are being received from EU funds be changed, let me not know how to provide some logistics that will help people fill out this non-transparent documentation and that then we can really plan the budget realistically. Because this is how we have the situation, and now in a few days, Minister Maric will bring the budget back. They'll say look you have 14 billion at your disposal, then they'll come 11 months 2018. They'll say, if you'll excuse us, we'll get 3 billion again, etc. So it's extremely unserious. It's really very, very unserious and it doesn't send a good message to the citizens, and it's just time to open our eyes, sober up from the delusions and go some other way. At least that's how it seems to me that this doesn't make sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57080	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bunjac, you are in one right, which is that the effect of the EU and European funds on Croatia depends solely on us, not on us, but on the European Union, on us. So how capable and willing we will be to use those funds. And this rebalancing is a very simple calculation, you know. Down there, it says in data that Croatia has paid, i.e. to pay about 3 billion and 600, 700 million kuna in the EU budget, and that by yesterday at least if you trust it to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, there is no reason not to get them out of the EU into the Croatian budget of 6 and a half billion kuna. Unfortunately, therefore, I must say that this title that is now being used in these discussions is not correct. So that's something that doesn't stand. So it's one thing to look at only EU funds, and another to watch all the funds coming from the EU. Only support for agriculture is almost identical or slightly less than what we are paying in the EU budget. And then all the projects we realize is plus, that's what's useful for Croatia. But what's unfortunately true is that very few funds we've withdrawn. Especially this year, things have stopped. Just before I said only 2.4% of the total of 11 nearly billion euros in funds. There's a problem. So the problem is the effectiveness of retreating. But if we pull 80 or 90 percent of how many other countries so-called. The cohesion countries then have no fear. Croatia will succeed and Croatia will have benefit from the EU, no doubt. But we have to get to that 80, 90%. Here's the ace.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57082	I haven't seen you, Mr. Bunyan, but I believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57083	Thank you, well-respected Greek representative. So I think you've mixed up two things here, and that's one of the arranged funds, and the other are paid off. So in Croatia only 15-20% of the contracted funds are paid. So it's not like Croatia withdrew those funds that they came into account. She may have arranged them, but these funds I repeat go very, very weak payments. So if we look at how I would say the cash that came to Croatia that cash is less than the cash that is paid into European funds. On the other hand you now go your word against my word, I claim it was less, you claim it was more. I would like to make an independent impact assessment, meaning a study that would show us if all the parameters were respected whether exactly what you say Croatia has received more than it has paid because some such scientific studies in Bulgaria or Greece have clearly shown that these countries have received less than they have received. And now I would like to say, so if such studies exist, I would like that study to be done in Croatia, to take that question off the agenda. Given what money is spent on at the Ministry of Finance and in general in the budget, I think one such study could be singled out and then we'd have black on white. I think it would be far less of a shame than getting blind into some kind of program, writing some kind of budget, and then actually seeing that the results are very thin, that the budget isn't realised, that people didn't get what they expected. And among other things, the entire HDZ programme was probably based on the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. So their own program went down, collapsed. So again we could say responsibility is first of all theirs, and not mine as you say responsibility is ours. I don't want to share responsibility for bad policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57084	Don't blame me, Mr. Greek. Today we are playing against Greece, but if the study showed that Greece has given more than it has received that study, the Greeks have done 100 percent. Mr. Lalovec, go ahead in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57085	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we have today a proposal for amending and supplementing the budget of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. There has been a lot of talk here today about these topics, such as how EU funds are withdrawn, about health debts, actually some kind of measures that are seen or not actually seen in this budget. So as far as the document itself is concerned, I think it's done correctly, so there's no objection there. What actually reflects us in 2017 is, these are positive movements in the domestic economy expressed in the gross domestic product of about 2.7% and since we had a good tourist season and these indicators are still during the summer, we know how much it affects the state budget and actually the whole economy. Because most of our products are actually sold in summer when millions of foreigners come here. Influences positively on our balance of payments, so it will certainly be by the end of this year especially in, probably the minister has even better data for 9 and 10 months as far as the VAT charge is concerned he is always better charged during the summer months especially about eight, nine months, and some of the oscillations are lower there in the autumn and somewhere there in the first and second months. Which means that the Croatian economy is very cyclical, it is actually sensitive to certain and positive and so to say negative influences. And that's what we're looking at in this budget, which is what we're seeing that we're going to have more about VAT. So somewhere around a billion and I think it's about a billion and 400 and somewhere around a billion kuna we'll have more profit taxes. It's shrinking that part. We've said a lot here today with these EU funds. And that one part, so it's positive, means the revenue side of the budget, and the expenditure side of the budget primarily refers to the settlement of one part of the debt of health. That's what my colleague Shuker was talking about, in fact, that it's one continuity of all Croatian policies in 17 years, in fact, that every time we have after a certain period that we have, that this particular debt that is accumulated in health, that after a certain time to pay off. This is how it happens with this rebalancing, where about 1.1 billion are transferred to health care, i.e. liabilities for the state and county hospitals 870 million kuna, HZZO 137 million and KBC Split 27 million. In addition, there are increases in expenditure, including some dues, i.e. debts from the previous years of 2003 and 2011 according to the FINA of 266 million kuna. I think given that last year, FINA had that problem with the CNB, that is, those old problems from the '90s, it's a pay traffic problem and a system where it's certain that these funds will come in handy for the Financial Agency and for liquidity, and as far as stabilising its business is concerned, it's good that these things have been resolved. Also here is an increase in wages, we know that here is a adjusted pay base and now the government has adjusted the pay base in August 2017, so it is 5,300 kuna and this second part refers to a correction somewhere around 90 million kuna of those who returned to those who had pensions of up to 5,000 kuna, when they were actually in those times of crisis they also participated in that kind of, tightening belt when they were not public finances as they are today. However, I would say something briefly, which is always interesting for me to pull some sort of public finances parallel here, for example, in 2017. We've been out of recession for two years now. We know that we had a six-year recession and we know that the economy dropped 13% with the period before the recession, and we know somewhere in 2007, then the economy was about 5%. A fellow Shuker was then a minister remembers well how it was then. But let's see some figures in the budget what they looked like and what they look like today. Then, for example, he's to you. on behalf of, so in 2007, when the economy was growing 5%, and the economy grew steadily in 2000, it grew almost to 30% accumulated when taken and the VAT was at the time 37.7 billion kuna, and it seemed a lot. Today in this budget rebalance, VAT is 47 and a half billion kuna. 10 billion kunas we have more VAT in 2017 than we have when we look at it only in absolute terms than we have in 2007. At that time, there was also a profit tax somewhere around 8 billion as it is now and there are certainly a much larger amount of excise duties because we know that one part of us had to comply with EU directives, especially as regards tobacco, and there were increased excise duties on oil derivatives. So somewhere around 12 billion, 12 billion were your excise duties, and 10 years after your total excise duty, 15 billion, somewhere around 15.2 billion, 8.4 is on your oil, which we collect, and somewhere on the spirit of 4.4 billion. And now that we see the actual accumulation of these revenues in 2007, when the economy, when we thought we were at the top and now we have 2017, only when you see in the name of the VAT that there are 10 billion kunas more definitely we think that today we need to start talking about what is actually the HDZ in our programs and saying that we have space and that we have to think about reducing the VAT rate. That we need to think about reducing the VAT rate for a reason because we see that this is the burden that is most high, that income in the state budget. But certainly, it will continue to reduce the VAT rate as this tax reform has shown that it should multiply economic activity, that it should multiply economic activity if all of this which is now here is actually saying that tax reform has led to an increase in income then VAT reduction should further increase this particular economic activity especially when we are now on so-called. Zero deficits, or even depending on the methodology over the year, may occur in the primary surplus. However, what is certainly important here is that certain problems that are being spoken here today, which is particularly the withdrawal of EU funds that this has nothing to do with the Ministry of Finance. So that's how it was in my time and my predecessors, that simply certain ministries have their own plans, every time they think they have to realize these certain plans, and there are always the battles of the Ministry of Finance towards all other ministries how realistic something is being shown. And then when we come here today, then the Ministry of Finance is accused as if something had actually been shown, and it actually refers to all the resolution ministries that are planning these specific funds, and that assures the Minister of Finance and everything that will actually be implemented in full and then when the budget rebalancing comes into effect, and when today we have to reduce these two billion kunas here, or blushing why we haven't realized the amount then actually the Minister of Finance has to defend his colleagues why they didn't do it in full, and I think it would be much more correct to have his colleagues sitting there and actually to see for certain ministries what didn't happen, why it didn't happen. Because they are the ones who are responsible for the limits of their budget to execute them in full. So here, and I think it would be good to have a discussion on what kind of projects and where it's stuck. And maybe in the future when we do budget rebalancing that these ministries are particularly visible in this section so that at least we have answers here, and in fact, it doesn't have to be a minister in one uncomfortable position that in such a way it has to, because it can't and doesn't really know all these details why certain tenders have been made, are not done, which is why certain problems. But when this is presented here, it actually turns out that we are, we have a poor quality of planning as you know it has been determined by the State Audit Office. Especially when they said this about EU funds, where they emphasized especially about the planning itself to make this specific planning more realistic and then to present those funds. Because if we heard here today that they're somewhere with today's day, or yesterday we heard on the Finance Committee that about six and a half billion funds have been withdrawn somewhere, and here we're talking about nine and a half billion, there's no way that these 3 billion in these two months, especially what we know that if they're related to construction works, if we know that now it's going to be a worse time to go both rain and snow, etc. We just know that by the end of the year, we won't even have a chance to execute this nine and a half billion kuna there. However, it would be good, then, to be taxed and listed, and that individual resolution ministries are manifested why these projects are not in realisation, whether this is again because of the administration or because of some other problems. So this kind of debate, as we just heard earlier, could be much more quality than that now, actually, based on the superficial data that we have here, or we don't have to have a debate about what weak withdrawals are. Also when I'm talking here I was told about the debt of health here today we're talking about one amount, yesterday we heard the other how much debt there is, how much total debt in health care. What's a fact is that these are two structural big problems that have been dragged into all these 27 years by the pension system and the health system and actually the biggest deficits that are created to form from these two systems. So these two systems create the highest deficits, and unfortunately, we have high tax rates and 25% VAT and these high rates, and as far as income tax and tax rates are concerned, you can't make a miracle, you can't do that much, you can encourage the economy one way or another if we don't really catch these structural problems. And unfortunately for structural problems, and these are health problems and the pension system you have to have a lot more than 76 hands. This is actually what the rating agencies themselves do when they actually evaluate how much government can actually implement certain reforms that we have much more than 76 hands and that there must actually be consensus both ruling and opposition to be implemented because these are the most important reforms for me. Most importantly, if we don't solve them here now we have a particular cycle, I won't say certain happiness that we won in this way and as far as the tourist season and a certain part of the economy are concerned. But a single disturbance in the economy, a single disturbance, and we see in Agrokor how it can shake the economy. We don't really know what else is going to happen in 2018. We don't know what the supplier's balance sheets will look like in 2018. Today we hear certain announcements that they will have to come up with bigger notes. If there are bigger notes, what will happen to all suppliers? All suppliers will end up in minus. All suppliers will have to end in a minus because if these amounts are 76, 60, 70% of them will have a loss in their balance sheets next year, which means that these profit taxes that we now increase a billion kunas from 7 and 100 to 8 and 100, the question is how many next year will be. We know in the end when this whole one chain is made, and we'll see what kind of settlements will be, the question of what happens next year with the profit tax. It is also a matter of VAT because we say how sensitive it is to the tourist season, how sensitive it is to some investment opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and how fast or weak it can actually hit the budget. So, especially when it comes to interest rates. I'm saying, this morning I was talking to my colleague Shucker, so when it was in debt back then in 2007, about 6% from today's perspective, you'd say everyone today would say who'd say who owed it expensively by 6%. Right? However, then go to the financial market and get a certain part of the money, at all showing up on the financial market was a success. Also when we actually went somewhere in 2014, the 15th time we went out to the European market to get about 3%, 4% was actually a certain success. So the question is, at all these interest rates, how much we can and how much we can't. But what's unfortunately, unfortunately, and I'm saying it's not a question for the Ministry of Finance actually that there are no structural reforms that actually trust us and reiting agencies that actually she and the World Bank when she's working dumming buses to jump on those scales because they expect us to have deep structural reforms. That's what's actually been said for a long time, and the biggest structural reforms are actually in the structure of health care, pension system and public administration. It's like three areas that everybody's actually detecting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57086	Thank you, Mr. Lalovac. Thank you very much. You've got three replicas anyway, so you'll continue. The first replica is Mr. Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you basically explained the essence of the whole story in a simple language. This budget looks bad, I'll say. The projections are even better. However, you have warned correctly about all the dubiosis of this budget and the general state of public finances, above all the health sector, problems with the use of EU funds. My colleague Shuker also mentioned today this segment, which is of particular importance, which is the rehabilitation of the state in road construction and above all in the Croatian highways, where there are more than 40 billion kunas where we pay almost 2 billion kuna a year only. Can we work this out? In the long term, these are the real structural reforms that facilitate and release space in the budget so that money can be rerouted into the necessary things. I've already pointed out here several times, and so do my colleagues who directly represent the pensioners. Justice in our society will not be achieved until in this segment of pensions from work we make a circular shift in the sense that these pensions continue to lag behind, so with a percentage of less than 40% for the average salary in Croatia. It's a catastrophic situation. That percentage must be stabilised first. It must no longer fall, and further measures are needed to do so, and I call on the government to come up with such measures. Regular alignment isn't enough anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57088	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Lalovec's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that my colleague, Greek, unfortunately in my debate, I didn't touch those painful problems. Actually, it's a public firm. In fact, the largest part of the public debt and the largest part, and when it affected the public debt and its transfer, and we know that the railway sector, the road sector, are now involved, that HBOR, HRT are involved. So it's all part of public finances now and we actually have very little information about what's going on in the public sector, whether there are restructuring processes there. We know that some documents have also been sent to the European Commission on restructuring and rail transport. We see that the Ministry of Finance is trying to restructure the debt of Croatian highways and these are really difficult and painful questions for Croatian society. So besides talking about health care, the pensioners certainly have very low pensions, and in this context we can't expect to have an improvement in living standards. Unfortunately, I say, we used certain opportunities to rebalance the budget to say balance. However, we do not see legal measures, legislative proposals that will address these structural problems in the coming years if we experience some kind of crisis that we can avoid. And unfortunately if you don't let God happen the budget will again be influenced by a very high drop in income, and then reopening the deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57090	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57091	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Lalovac, you have touched on one topic that has been worth this assembly for several years because of the very change in the structure of income and so the debate of the state budget that some others should be sitting with the Minister of Finance. Or another thing, that perhaps by amending the Law on fiscal responsibility or by amending the Budget Law, we change the modality or model of reporting on this budget. It was easy when we had the funding source we had. Budgetary users got through, so some of them broke through, so the rebalance was covered. However, this is very important whether or not we will use this benefit of membership in the European Union, because our entrepreneurs need to be an example of how it is done. Because when you look at good macroeconomic indicators, most of these good macroeconomic indicators are just the initiative of our entrepreneurs who simply felt the opportunity to go across the border and offer their product and their service and that's why we grew so much exports. Because we just don't have to be surprised at anything. These are facts and these facts need to be translated into certain provisions, laws for the simple reason to force ourselves to be better, nothing else. Because responsibility, it's easy to engage when you're in opposition, and that's why I'm glad you discussed it like you discussed today. The responsibility for what you need to do simply must exist. And the Minister of Finance can't be the answer to something that has no interference at all. However, it is the responsibility of all of us here in this House of Commons to fight over irrelevant matters, or to insist on some things to pull something out because we remember every kuna we withdraw from Brussels from the European Commission is worth twice, because we will not have to give it out of our home budget. And the other thing for that other kuna is that we've been able to do something that we wouldn't otherwise be able to do from our own budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57092	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you fellow Schucker, and it's actually visible from the budget of the tax actually on the profit that's now approaching somewhere that record seems to me somewhere in 2008 when there were 10 billion kuna taxes on profits, now we're somewhere more than 8 billion kuna. The higher VAT payments, and therefore I said that if there was a tax reform, and there was actually a speech, there was an impact that it could actually increase taxes with a certain tax reform that should certainly be considered in the future to reduce the overall VAT rate. I think that's what the minister was talking about. So I think that this is certainly a good direction to make the total tax burden at a time when the economy is now beginning to grow that it needs to go by reducing taxes to continue with this policy and that certainly the effects of the budget will be better in the future. But what you said here, and that's true, you see, we singled out HZO from the treasury. We know our opinion on it. But I see here an item in the budget, we said it was much more transparent when we spoke when they were inside the system. Now they're individual. In fact, we don't have any answers about that part at all, and unfortunately here again, the minister of mine has to answer about it, and that's not his responsibility in terms of debt at all, as far as health restructuring is concerned, and that's where we need to find some consensus between the opposition and the government. As far as health care is concerned, I think it's in our best interests together. Or what you actually said if it's 0.5 to 1% of GDP that we know it's so much every year and then we don't generally discuss it. However, regardless of whether or not we want to discuss it, it seems to me that we will have to come together to find answers to these questions and that there will be no more transfers from one side to the other – whether you should have done this, like this – because I think it is in the interest of all of us to settle these health debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57094	Thank you. Mrs. Peric. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57095	A fellow Shuker, a Lalovec. Excuse me. You were talking about the pension system so when we look at the costs of the household citizens' fees, it's about 46 billion at the level of 2017, it's only for the pensions of 37.4 if we know that about 20 to 21 billion are collected from the contributions, then we see what that trunk is between one and the other. But I'm sure the finance minister is also, and the government is also thinking about how to make it easier, how to reduce VAT. However, you should choose the time that you know well, because one budget year is so short to actually do everything you want and actually the effects are very slow, so it's exactly the time when something is going to be done so we didn't assume that we would have such a terrible problem and a blow to the entire economy, and that's one Agrokor and then, in the context of it all, you really need to choose a time when you can eventually reach for the discharge of one, for example. percentage points for VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57096	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So if we know and everything surprised the economy that's going on with Agrokora, then it's probably also participated into the 2018 budget, especially in the projection of the profit tax. Because what I said if a deal is reached in January or if we know that the most of it according to media signs that most of the write-offs will have to go, I see that one part of the bank has entered into the reservation they have already made one part of the reservation, it is seen in their indicators in this part of the year, but the problem is that all of the suppliers if they enter and physically have to do certain write-offs they will all go down. I mean, everybody knows that, everyone, if one of the companies of Vindia, Krasa and all those who were if they had to do the write-offs of their claims, they'll go down to minus and they'll make a certain loss. And that's why I'm saying that what needs to be done, I hope that part of it certainly took care of for 2018 because it's something that we already know about what the deal is going to look like and that we certainly still don't know about the impact on the economy. So this first influence of Agrokora, where certain liquid assets have gone, is now resolved, but as they will be in 2018, in 2019, do we know that economic processes always go with some kind of time-out and that it always takes time for all of these processes to happen, we will see what will happen in 2018, 2019, but unfortunately I would not want us to be caught euphoria that we have now solved this part and that we can continue to spend budget funds, if we don't really know what the balance sheets of entrepreneurs will look like in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57098	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, Mr Davor Vlaovic, in front of the HSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57099	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates. I welcome you on behalf of the HSS Club and here is our review of these laws that are being discussed, of course, with an emphasis on the rebalancing of the state budget. Here we welcome an increase in budget revenues of 875 million kuna and a reduction in expenditures of 1.6 billion kuna, and I would like to remind you that the minister himself, as a promoter, has pointed out that increased income and the result of increased domestic demand, exports and tourism. We believe that revenues would be greater and greater domestic demand to be more seriously approached by proposals that have come out of the opposition to define a higher minimum wage through tax reform, in order to increase the purchasing power of our citizens, especially in undeveloped areas where most entrepreneurs still pay that minimum wage of 2,620 kuna, which makes many people decide to leave the Republic of Croatia. There was also often debate in the circles of entrepreneurs how to help exporters and we did not find the right recipe, and here we see that exports continue to generate increased revenues and the state budget and that there is a need to take special care of the sector. And of course commendation to all tourist workers who have brought a huge burden to Croatia to be one of the top destinations and that we have these incomes, but surely we should not forget the continental part of Croatia, the development of tourism in rural areas, because the fact that over the past year, two too little has been invested in the development of continental tourism and assistance to OPGs, crafts and tourist communities in Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem and other underdeveloped areas to raise the level of development of continental tourism and their capacity to attract tourists. I think that there is also a need to highlight and design the programme not only of the Ministry of Finance but also of all other competent ministries to place domestic goods, food and processing industries through tourism, this would be the best form of placement and insurance of income to the industry, as well as to the citizens themselves who could live on it. When it comes to agriculture here we welcome that the next period has been planned to grow positions for the Ministry of Agriculture, but what our agricultural producers are interested in is whether by the end of the 11th month that support in agriculture is promised and I believe that you understand the necessity of this in view of all the problems that have hit Croatian agriculture and our country through the elemental flood disaster, fire, stormy weather, in the end there are droughts in Slavonian counties where the damages are more than 500 million kuna and I think we need to take care of that part to increase the amount of damage compensation from elementary disasters. I welcome the initiative to increase this position from 20 million kuna to 100 million kuna, but at the beginning we warned that 20 million kunas too little, and these additional 80s, too, I don't think it's enough, given the information we have so far that over 2.5 billion kuna damage has been reported to the State's Commission for Fundamental Accidents, and there will be three of them as long as all the labs surrender. We think that this position should be increased not by 80 but by 180 and that this position should be at least 200 million kuna and in this respect the HSS will also make an amendment to this budget rebalance. It should also be said that the biggest burden suffered by the Ministry of Finance in the reduction, thanks to the reduced cost of interest and payment of the debts of the Republic of Croatia, but the amount at the transfer position or compensation measures of local self-government units is reduced if I have read well 558 million kuna, which I believe we may not have done, i.e. that the units of local self-government should have been paid more through compensation measures this year. Of course, we welcome the decision that these 35 units in the mountainous and mountainous areas are being further compensated, but this is far too little compared to not only that 35 units of local self-government lost in 2015 and 2016 through those poor changes, tax on the damage of the income of local and regional self-government units because that way we help them continue to work. But for those lost funds, for the lost chances of making projects, we haven't done much to them. We heard that the town of Vrgorac, only about 35 million kunas lost because of these changes to the law, that the Brod-Posavina County, Mr. Minister over 50 million kuna, lost in those two years. And we made up for what, five, six million kunas this year. ... Yeah, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next more. But what about those debts and liabilities that came from the previous period, we can no longer refund and make up for it, and we're reducing this position, and I think by the end of this year we could have done even more. Here I call on you to think again that this position is not shrinking by 558 million kuna but rather a little less and to make certain transfers to local and regional self-government units for development projects, not for consumption, but for development projects. And I think we have enough projects at the local level that could be financed through these funds. As regards agriculture, it should also be pointed out that agricultural producers and the total society are dissatisfied with the dynamics of withdrawing funds from rural development measures. They expected a lot of this, it was too late to make decisions in those competitions for 4.1.4.2 measures, and we know for what reasons, because of manipulation and malfeasance about it. But here's what's happening now that for a 7.2 measure of a year, the local self-government unit has not received answers, that measure 7.4, according to the secretary of state, has only now been taken to process the data and projects have been submitted since May. And that's one reason, obviously, that there's not enough courage or enough capacity for these competitions to be resolved as soon as possible and to go into the investment. And you know for a fact that municipalities and cities have invested a lot of resources in preparing these projects and expect a lot of these measures. Also when it comes to the cost of incentives, here is the name of all freshwater fishermen, people who deal with freshwater fishing, protests because they have been lifted the incentive per kilo of fish produced but not even that part of the support for organic rent or what has caused them the damages of fish-eating birds. It was also planned in this year somewhere around if I got the information well 18 million kuna for payment, there won't be any payment because apparently not all the legal assumptions were made for it. So who's to blame? It's not their fault. Why, what was the ministry doing that didn't get rid of it? It's like it's working on it, so she'll get more per year. And they need to survive this year and they didn't get anything last year. I think that the end of the year still has to find a way to pay them at least that part that's planned this year. As for the part of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we welcome the decision to additionally provide county road administrations with 100 million kuna support for their work and for investments in local and unclassified roads. But it's already been said that it's just patching holes. Thanks for that, but we'd be in our counties and our municipalities building roads and not just patching holes. So here's my welcome to the committee's initiative to secure a stable income through 0.00 kuna, i.e. 0.00 lira from the fuel price for the financing of these jobs. It's also reduced here by cca. 270 million kuna for eu projects. Why? Like because they're complex projects, it takes a lot to prepare, administer and property legal relations. So why haven't we invested more in preparing these projects, in strengthening these capacities to withdraw more funds from the EU. What particularly bothers me is that we from the HSS are reducing the amount for the broadband infrastructure development project. Because how much information we have from the secretary of state over 30 projects is ready and with the right and city of Nova Gradiška and municipalities ask when the competition will be because they have a ready project. It also reduces the amount of the Ministry of Science and Education by around 173 million kuna. I already mentioned yesterday to the prime minister and asked him what to do with the transfer of the students. 295 million kuna was planned for this purpose. However, because of the riots on the ground, due to the price difference between a worker's ticket that is one mile away from 40 km 528 kuna and a student's student you can think 1300 kuna people simply can't understand this story and I suggest that this position from the Ministry of Science is not reduced to 173 million kuna but to provide an additional 20,30 million kuna for the transport of students and to be paid by 100% for the transport of high school students so that students can reach high school and be educated from remote parts. And that would also help the population stay in these rural areas and ensure as much quality education to our high school students. When it comes to the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, their budget of 167 million kuna is reduced. And look and there's a reduced withdrawal of funds from the operational programme cohesion and coherence, somewhere cca. 20% of all is withdrawn and still difficulties are in the preparation of projects, administrative, complex projects, and the question remains again why has no longer been invested in the preparation of these projects and in capacity building. And what should be pointed out in particular is that one of the following points is the Law that abolishs the Energy and Investment Monitoring and Business Centre because no project has been prepared and implemented. And there were x people there with salaries, with all the expenses. Here's one reason we're setting up agencies, centres that are dysfunctional, and they're not helping the ministries and the government prepare projects and now we're shutting them down. And what we've been doing so far, what they've been doing so far, and I think the public needs to know that there are such centres and agencies that haven't done anything or someone hasn't allowed them to do anything, I don't know what this is about. I would especially like to mention here the problem of the Environmental Protection Fund, which has reduced revenues, which has done negative business. What is planned here is to strengthen the business of the Environmental Protection Fund and when competitions for energy efficiency are expected, for our households, for our citizens. Because we know that in this way we would save on energy consumption, save them a few dollars in the home budget. And on the other hand, we know that this is the largest part of the business that our local craftsmen and entrepreneurs get, and thus this sector would help raise their business and their incomes. It's already been said a lot about health care. We welcome, of course, the initiative to allocate an additional 1.1 billion kuna for healthcare. Out of that, 870 million kuna for the commitments made and it goes to the pharmaceutical industry the most. We know it's too small, because the commitments are much bigger. But here we hope that there will be a way that citizens, or patients, will not feel it. And so here are these 200 million kunas that go to county hospitals we welcome, but what are the criteria. I'm afraid again those who have successfully done business, who have not reached 365 days, will be punished. The minister commended the business of the county hospital in Slavonski Brod, thank him for that. But I think both the patients and the employees of this hospital expect to be helped in further business, because they've been remedied twice, and basically the debts remain that are over 130 million kunas. And we are rightly afraid for these two of our constitutional hospitals in Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradišca in order to continue to successfully operate and care for them. And what we all expected together, which is the establishment of a new Ministry of State Property Management, by putting these resources into function of the economy. All 40 and a few million kunas are increased revenues from business around state assets. Much too little, much more was expected to still be questioned by units of local and regional self-government when that part of state property that is not of strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia will be given to them for management so that you can see that units of local self-government are more efficient and that they will place this state property in the function of developing the economy and developing their end and ensure income for themselves and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57100	Thank you, too. Mrs. Roscic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57101	Thank you. Comrade Vlaović, you have kept on this part of which I will look back on about the elemental disasters and these matters concerning the Ministry of Agriculture's portfolio. Apart from those assets that are visible to you here, counterpart Križanić mentioned even though we have three billion already reported damages that one part of them will be covered through measure 521. It's a reconstruction of agricultural land and production potential. I also cheered him up because here in the debate he was mentioned to be able to use that measure only when the damage is greater than 70%. That's not true, it's when it's greater than 30%. We are already on our field, as far as the damage from the fires is concerned, reporting such agricultural holdings. Of course, both regional administration and others are involved in the damage to the physical one, in the natural person. On the other hand, it is important to point out that it is acceptable and damage to the machinery. You've often mentioned LAGs. Even 22 local action groups from Poland ten days ago chose ours as an example of the good practice of LAGAdrion and were very surprised to see what kind of area we produce, how many stones there are. But they told us that one Poland had negotiated that the damage was only covered after 90%, so we can be satisfied that we weren't the ones who had all the bad negotiations, that in some things we had negotiated better. And what I would say about the long wait for 7.22 is also often criticised. But the procedure is done, so the procedures under which the projects are being evaluated are old and it's been waiting a long time, and we've already cut to 6.3, so in half a year, and it's expected to wait 90 days. You've mentioned the paying agency before why we don't end it if it's slow, that the paying agency for agriculture and rural development and fisheries is the only agency we've said with the EU accession treaty that we'll set up. We need to start her. We can put out everything else we want, but we cannot shut down the paying agency because of both budget orientation and the EU. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57102	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57103	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Rostice, here's a thank you for your replica. I welcomed the desire and the intention to increase the amount of funds from 20 to 100 million kuna for elemental disasters, and we believe that it is not enough and we will propose that it be 200 million precisely for the reason that most of our family farms will not be able to report to 5.2 and you know well that 5.2 can only be reported for the restoration of production potential, only the one where the olives, the vineyard in the end of the machine and the rest. And those who have had reduced yields and therefore reduced revenues due to droughts, stormy storms, fights cannot be reported at 5.2 because it is an unacceptable cost. And for these reasons, I think it is necessary to increase this position and thus decompose the family farms and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have suffered damage from elementary disasters, and it will reach about 3 billion when they all surrender their elaborates. Of course we can't cancel the Payment Agency, but then the Ministry of Agriculture, along with the Government, must strengthen that institution so that it can react without solving the 7.2. I know it's not their fault, but the minister has also promised to reduce administrative barriers, facilitate these procedures, and let's see that this is not the case, that it continues for more than a year. Of course, I also spoke to local action groups because they are one tool that can increase the absorption of EU funds at local level. But that's where he was too late with the payoffs. You remember here I was saying that in the spring all the labs were finished and all the LAGs were sent out, and the funds were only recently given to them. So here's my appeal for it to go just faster so more resources can pull back and help develop our rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57104	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57105	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vlaovic, therefore, a very important topic. You have opened the question of measures 4 and other measures in agriculture. And look, these are things where you don't need to be saved. There's no need to reduce the deficit. You should always ask if there are any personnel, you should hire these people. There are young educated people, smart people working on these jobs. What happened? Minister Jakovina was a long procedure. Minister Jakovina collected all applications, only when he collected them all then there was an administrative check and there was an evaluation and then it was seen which could be obtained and the contract was signed. What did Minister Tolusic say? And Minister Tolusic likes a little PR, you know? He says there's no problem, we collect applications, we do an administrative check, and I can do that, that's what my colleague Vesna has already warned about in other competitions. They can also do this on internships or on professional training for people to check and when they say look, they do, they give all the papers. We're making a financing contract. What's the funding agreement? Nothing. It was only now seen when he was attacked over Lucic's son by Mr. Franjo Lucic. His son won. So he says he didn't get the funding, but he got the funding contract. Says that contract means nothing. It really doesn't mean anything, because there's only now an evaluation. And then only if it's all gone, then he'll get the funding. And you know what's dangerous about this other way now? If anyone gets out of the game, we'll lose those funds. You can't involve people anymore. So it's serious stuff, and yet, you watch the length again. The length of the whole process again, and who loses? The farmers. So we need to take this issue seriously, and that is not to be spared. We need to get a job, I say smart, educated young people should work on these jobs to attract as much money from European funds as possible and to help Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57106	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Žagar, you have well identified this problem regarding the implementation of rural development measures, in particular measures 4.1, 4.2. I would remind myself that for the first time too long, almost two years we worked on rural development measures, so we waited for more than a year for these measures to be accredited, so the competitions ended when a large number of projects arrived, then some conditions were changed in the walk, and therefore there were questions about the legality of the work around the part. However, former Minister Romic has also stalled there too long whether he will make a decision on the selection of tenders received or not, as the fact is that these people have also spent money preparing projects to book some goods and services with suppliers, that there has been a change in technology, and we have brought them into a very awkward position. Of course, I condemn every illegal act in the preparation and execution of competitions especially when the competition has already been called. And here it is through these measures 7.2 and 7.4 we don't want to make that mistake again, but it still doesn't take a year for that procedure. I agree with you that it is necessary to employ young, professional people who know how to read materials and who can administratively facilitate the Agency to come to the evaluation and evaluation of these projects, all with the aim of getting as much funding as possible from the EU, to create preconditions for the development of our agriculture, rural areas, non-agricultural production in the rural area, because these opportunities are also planned here. And I think we've misprogrammed. For some measures, the funds are already being used according to the projects received, and in the next two, three years we will not have any more funding, so here is a reminder that we are better programmed for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57108	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57109	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Vlaovic, you have expressed your regret and I would also like to say a criticism of not withdrawing planned European funds. And I share with you the regret that these funds have not been withdrawn and will not be withdrawn in that amount previously planned. However, it should be said that in this year, this government and the Ministry of Regional Development significantly accelerated the use of these funds, so that a tender worth 2 billion euros was announced during the first 9 months of 2017. Compared to 2015 and 2016, only 2.8 billion euros were announced, a further even greater acceleration was recorded in the first nine months of the agreement of 1.6 billion euros, which is 2.2 times more than in the first two years of implementation of the programme. You know very well that something could be used and withdrawn in 2017, that it should be minimal in 2015 to call those competitions. Also, operational programmes such as cohesion in 2014, 2020, whose resources we can now and withdraw have been negotiated and negotiated conditions significantly before, so here we can say that under the current conditions we cannot operate spinning from European funds into a settlement of over 5000 inhabitants, we cannot operate a social home, a firehouse and the like, no matter what the money is. And here we see that we're not going to have it on the expense, but on the income side. So there's no confusion as to who's responsible for that not withdrawing funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57110	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57111	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I have not been in my debate on rebalancing and on the problem of withdrawing funds from the EU has gone purely critical, nor has that been my intention. Because the minister himself announced that he was one of the levers of Croatia's development and our chances of withdrawing funds from the EU, that he would reduce administrative barriers, that it would work to strengthen capacity. The fact that according to the Ministry of Agriculture, we heard that it measures 7.2., 7.4 a year is waiting. Realisation that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is reducing the position by 270 million kuna due to the unpreparedness of the projects, that the Centre for the Monitoring and Business of the Energy Sector and Investments is being abolished, no project realised, I only point out that as a problem to do something urgently to make us more operational and efficient for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that criticism towards local and regional self-government units that there is no project simply does not stand, because the projects are prepared and run. There are even too many, and a lot of resources are invested and spent on it and it's time to speed up these procedures so that these investments can be launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57112	Thank you very much. The individual debate continues, Mr. Bulj is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57114	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers, assistants, secretaries. I'm sorry, I don't know who I'm going to talk to, but I wish there was one of the ministry's representatives. If I can wait or I'll talk, here I'll wait Well, I'll wait. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...I thought I'd ask a question. [[Intruder Radin: It's up to you to decide.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57115	I believe the big brother is listening to you after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57116	Well, I'm glad you're listening to me, but still this Parliament and Parliament and you as chairman would have to allow someone from the ministry. Here's the minister. Okay. I've already welcomed both you and the secretary, I haven't seen you miss. Here I'd start right now with what I've told you today at the replica. In fact in 2015, I was saying that on behalf of the club, but there was not enough time because I shared time with my colleague. So in 2014, the SDP government adopted amendments to the Regional Development Act where 35 municipalities and cities were unfairly declared by some index that they had brought in, an incomprehensible index to a clear political index, which the HDZ government did. Jadranka Kosor brought the index, the Law on Indexation but the indexation was adopted in 2014 and... municipalities and cities fell out of assisted areas, it was somewhere around 100 million kunas for these 35 municipalities and cities, mostly Gorski kotar, mostly part down Dalmatian Zagorje, something Zagorje, Dalmatia. However, the fact is that when the minister became the minister of this speaker after the first government, I asked for it in the talks, you said publicly that the law would be amended, but the law did not change, the new government was also told by the former Ministry of Regional Development, and the current minister will also be in 2017. In order not to be, I will be self-critical, I say immediately when there was a debate here on the new Law on the financing of units of local self-government I said it was a good thing that we had some reference points where, financially and for cities and municipalities and where they would essentially try to compensate. However, in 2017, 2016 was also a compensation with rebalancing but in 2017 I made proposals, and even an amendment and talked to the Minister and Ministry, but at the beginning of the year it was much better if it had been accepted because the mayors and the mayors from those areas would have had the funds immediately and all year long to manage. And this is how it was painful for them in the field because they are still the ones who manage the budget. But now it's inside the budget of 35 municipalities and the cities have got that money, it seems to me that some others but mostly they've got. That amount is 20 million kuna, but the fact was taken 100 million kuna in 2015. So that's you, 100 million kuna has been taken and now it's returned 20 million kuna. I can also count here's the greatest sign he had of Vrgorac, Sinj, Gorski Kotar, the greatest damage. Only Sinj had as many mountain Kotar as any of those amendments to the law. And it's a good thing we have that in the budget, but that's not enough. That is not enough and therefore I hope that this law, amending the law on the financing of units of local self-government, will be much fairer. And I'm sorry that it's not entirely 10% smaller than it was agreed, 10% smaller after 2015, it was like a measure. Unfortunately, however, 10% is less. I'd be on my way, once again I said I'd welcome that compensation, that's what the mayors, the mayors who were at the meeting in these 35 cities were looking for. I've been from this pay phone and I've spoken countless times, but I hope new laws don't do any harm to those parts that we always say we should and preserve and preserve, and it's always at their expense. I would now look back on attracting European Union funds. So the fact is also from previous discussions and that the minister answers us that it is sad that the Croatian state pays that much money annually at the height of the Pelje Bridge and basically returns by 2.3% per year. Well, it's more painful for me this year now because as far as I can tell from this data that 410 million were agreed, paid 66, 7.3 in 2015, and this is 1.6 billion euros. The plan was 9.3 billion euros and 410m euros. So that's about a few percent. And we're paying 3 billion, 4 billion. We, here's the minister to confirm. We're not talking about interest, we're not talking about keeping an account. And banks take the same amount from us on fees and commissions, 4 billion. 4 billion EUs, 4 billion, that's only 8 billion, and how much we pay back. And we have to write the project for our money and get 2%. So why wasn't that said when it was unanimously voted in this House, when it was entering the EU why it wasn't said to be so. Because one small municipality, one small community cannot have that potential to do these projects according to EU standards and policies, and of course that money will go to large members because they protect their big interests. They are interested in it, if in one year we have membership fees as much as we pay the EU in one year, in order for it to be the money we get for the Pelesian bridge, then you know that it's absolutely missed and it's more than rude to a small state. And I don't know if it's up to others, but only 2% of the planned funding from the EU to attract it is devastating and we all call for the EU, the prime minister is called for good relations with EU leaders, close relations and we don't have anything in the end. I am sorry my colleague Bunjac was saying that few EU funds do not have rules, criteria, nor is it, it is known why so much money is being paid, nothing has been so signed but I am saddened that the European money, the minister, gives to her friends, not according to...... From the budget of money, from the budget, or from tenders, without competition, mostly against the rules, whether it is the EU, whether it is the Ministry of Regional Development that needs to take care of procedures and projects that it gives without competition, without competition 10 million kuna jobs to a friend. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Minister, one more thing is for you, we need to think about concessions. Here is the source of Cetina rented in 2015 in a debate in the Croatian government during the SDP 37 seconds a month, foreign company 5 thousand kuna. Five thousand kuna one little bigger OPG I pay I think in half a month. Our natural resources, our concessions, are very important, and that will be problematic. We need to know that unfortunately voted here the law that in 2020, foreigners will be able to buy a agricultural land. We were giving the amendment, we from the MOST, unfortunately not accepted, unfortunately this problem happened in Hungary where their prime minister called a referendum, where the people killed means a referendum on the privatisation of agricultural land. So concessions are very important, how maritime goods, water, agricultural land, and it needs to be seen how to charge, how to allocate and how much we actually have the funds. You have that information from Croatian natural resources. I think we can charge a lot more and use it much better. So with telecommunications, that's what I'm saying and as far as traffic goes, I'd just ask a question, but there's no one. Which is why projects that are important in the area of Dalmatia, Ravčeva, Drvenik, which was opened by Mr. Bačić then, two meters of the event. Dicma bypass towards Sinj connected with Imotski, Drniš Forgotten places, these were all government promises and they didn't do anything. [[Time, Mr. Bull.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57117	Mr. Misic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57118	Thank you, Vice President. I listened little to you in the European Union to invest in Croatia, concessions, investors and everything that contributes to this situation today in Croatia. So I want to ask you if you have visited neighbouring countries that are not in the European Union to see what these neighbouring countries that have not received European money have, what they have, what roads they have, what roads they have, what infrastructure they have, what they have far, far below us for 30 years sure. We're talking investment, we're talking concessions. If we do not allow investors to enter the Croatian state, we can only move out and that is the truth. We must allow, but not at all costs. I can agree with you. You had a thermo power plant on Cetina that was supposed to be built up Peruche, is it up there somewhere you're obstructing, not giving, you won't. I would give it to Croatian experts to see if it's really what you're talking about and whether it's a really fair investment that maybe 200, 500 people hired in your area. I don't see how we can hire our citizens if we don't allow some kind of investment to be fair and make sure they're not found out and not be, but that can be done. We have all the preconditions, but we can't talk about obstruction all the time. Let's sometimes talk in this House that we've done something right, that this people have one motive and say, we're giving from here a message to you who are in opposition that, this is well done as this is done by me, Lex Agrokor. 'Cause if we'd taken him down in four months, They had problems. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] We haven't yet, but hopefully next year we'll have a solution, and hopefully well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57119	Thank you. We'll do fine, but two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57120	Thank you very much. Well, of course you mentioned the highway,... The highway but here I will repeat to you once the Split Iron has failed and we have imported the iron that was being built on, so the interesting import lobby was raising money and that's why the roads were instead of I don't know 5 million euros per kilometer was 5 times more expensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a story for you now, but the road remains, everything is destroyed behind it. As far as I'm concerned, you were talking about the thermal power plant. Well, yes, scientists are against the thermal power plant. Mislav Cvitkovic, Mr Ursic, Mr. Simunović, numerous. The water is this potential of the Croatian, strategic which we must guard, but unfortunately what has gotten through laterally that... which is very important and no one has anything against... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government voted, but it owns the project from the minister's husband, it's a conflict of interest nothing less than Karamarko already because it owns a project that should be a HEP project exclusively state-owned, because it's top energy and that's what experts say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't tell Miro Bulj about the problems. 1,000 objections to the Environmental Impact Study were made by experts, scientists, not scientists who made Croatian society here where Ruđer Boskovic worked and Ruđer Boskovic denied, not the scientists who brought Croatian society here. Because if scientists were doing their job, not everyone, then today Miro Bulj wouldn't be in Parliament. Croatian society would have worked in the interest of public goods, not all of them speaking, individuals but were where money sounds, justice stutters, and there is a people. That's what I said at the assembly that we had a debate about where they were and those who were doing those projects not against projects, sustainable projects, energy, agriculture, air. But not at the expense of the greatest potential we have, it's water to build a foreign thermopower plant that will stimulate the gas that we import from Russia as a renewable source, as a wind power plant what...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57121	Mr. Bull, if scientists were doing their job, I didn't realize this, but now Mr. Sagar is on the move.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57122	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, you mentioned one case and it's important to say here and listen to the Minister of Finance. Therefore, public procurement in the Republic of Croatia amounts to a total of 35 billion kuna. That's how much it goes through public procurement. You mentioned a case at the Ministry of Regional Development, Mrs. Žalac, which went into negotiation proceedings. And you know what's encouraging now? However, the institutions found that this was wrong, so the appeal was accepted and that the competition was annulled. But not good, if no one had complained that would have gone away, no one would have known. Ministry of Finance, I'm talking about 35 billion kunas in public procurement alone, and we're not talking about exaggeration. The finance ministry here draws upon certain items where they will save 100 million and where 200 million will. This is how a huge amount of money passes through the fingers and nobody controls it except for this State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the case of a complaint. So public procurement is El'Dorado for all those who love percentages, for all those who in doing so through godfathers, friends, relatives and others are gathering certain benefits. And again to go back to what we all know well, give me a good deal, and see what a good entrepreneur will be. It happens in the Republic of Croatia. Take a look at the small structure when you look at entrepreneurs who are successful on a regular basis with the state or with public budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57123	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57124	A colleague, Žagar, was in my neighborhood a carrier named Auto Transport Sinj perhaps one of the largest in the former Yugoslavia space in such sizes and, of course, during the Homeland War plays a big role. I won't talk much about public procurement. I'll just give you an example. We have a contract that seems to me that then was Minister Schucker about reconstructing that carrier where Promet Makarska was already a private owner, absolutely nothing was fulfilled by the contract, nor the contractual obligation absolutely, but he even shut down that company to privatise the set of everything. Those workers who created that company throws it all over the place. I personally filed criminal charges, not now, but six, seven, ten years ago. It's a disaster. And now in the ministry are the debtors he has given as a guarantee, and here's the minister is good to say that 17 million kuna should, of course, be said if he has not fulfilled his contractual obligations to that company, he needs to activate and put into the state budget, not the people who created it, who carried the defenders, they've been the defenders to the most difficult battlefields, and now they've had damage to those people on the road. People don't have a 5.6 month salary, and a set of debts and obligations to car transport that company city and to its profits. That's how it worked. Minister Shuker knows exactly what I'm talking about because he was a minister when it happened. This was the relationship City of Sinj was, ministry and down traffic Makarska auto transport. It's just one little example, and that's millions. Well, I'd ask the Minister of Finance to measure whether the contract was fulfilled, that the debt be activated in Transport Makarska and put it in the state budget and direct it to transport students in the Dalmatian Zagora area or not, and not to take over the good that he has signed where only the lines that are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57125	Thank you. Time, sir. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Bull, I have to repeat something I told your colleague Panenic yesterday on the same subject. This is where you said that the regional development minister signed a million-dollar contract with her friend in the negotiation process. It is one of the complaints, one of the thousands and 200 complaints received by the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure adopted and on which the order will be handled. What you would like to know is that our citizens who are less directed when it comes to the negotiation process, and you have somehow explained that it is a corrupt or criminal act. The Public Procurement Act stipulates that all those intellectual services and intellectual transactions are negotiated in the negotiation process, and that is what intellectual services are about. In fact, if you're going to listen to me a little bit, I know that my colleague knows a lot more about it, which is why it bothered me when my colleague Panenic talked about it that way, and you said that you became mayor would know how you would negotiate lawyers for example. services. This is not an invitation to tender or to take the cheapest lawyer for such services, but rather the lawyer who worked for you earlier years and you are very pleased to begin the procedure in the negotiation process with him in the following year. There's only so much public service, and this is a complaint adopted by the State Commission, and it needs to be handled, that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57127	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57128	What Prime Minister Shakespeare would say about this from the fifth to the tenth. But the fact is that someone will have to pay that budget complaint, but it's the ministry that's in charge of the regional development project. You don't need to develop regionally,... Friends, but territory, people who do business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not getting into it. Was it legal? I didn't mention it illegally. I mentioned this second case. So, I think that these areas that we're talking about, which we're fighting for, which is regional development, and that ministry is a key ministry and I'm saddened that we're only 2% of those funds planned to attract, I'm saddened that one Peljeka Bridge gives... gives funds. I regret that we must kneel and follow their policies in order to recover those funds. It makes me sad. I'd rather have the minister on this for the sake of the plan, and not only are we now referring to some kind of legal or against the law. I didn't even say it was legal, is it illegal? But the fact is it was a complaint and it happened before friends. It's a fact, and from that fact, I don't know how you can justify yourself. And in the appeal course, he'll show and he'll have to pay for probably the minister or the ministry I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57129	Thank you very much. Now we continue with individual debates. Mrs. Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's good when the debate after the institutions of good movement continues that way because it's never happened differently that everyone mentions that they deserve it. It never happens that they're some kind of good movement, so someone says you're responsible for it, but it always turns out those movements were before, and this debate about this rebalancing report could have started and so we had problems, the distribution network of tourist entities fell because of the crisis in Agrokor. Tourism has had its different effects. So many and so many layoffs. We had fires, droughts and other natural disasters that caused 3 billion kuna damages, and that reflected our incomes, on our expenditures. However, that is not how the debate began. And when we found, however, that the plans were realistic and that the impact of the tax reform was even underrated and when we stopped talking about who was responsible, and they also established the SDP and Mosta Club as well that the movements were positive. Because that's what you see in numbers. That's what we can't just evaluate. Then the debate goes in the direction of how ambitious it should be, what to invest, how to use savings, where to save more, where to reduce the costs of public administration. Here's a colleague from the Bridge also mentioned that it was questionable whether it was necessary to raise salaries in public administration. Then on the Finance Committee, we had a debate on whether tax evasion should be made through direct or indirect taxes, whether it is good for VAT to be reduced or taxed, or to reduce the tax burden on labour. And that's what's crucial and that's why today's debate is good and I want to congratulate, despite the disagreements, both the opposition and the position in this debate. And yet after all these comments, the ruling majority will make their final position and draft budget or reform, and will look at the effects of each move in general. As far as tax discharge is concerned, I have to find that a bigger step has been made and that 2 and a half billion kunas have already been disbursed. The income from the income tax on growth and what has been discussed, means on the Committee on Finance, means it is already being paid, so the rates of tax reform are already being used means that it is being paid by advances and such discussions have no place in fact not to see the impact of the tax reform. What is important is that we will have a new wave of tax discharge in 1.1.2018 and what is also important to say that these increases and other costs for employees relate both to regression and everything else. I'd like to look back on my health because I've already spoken about these basic accidents. So, as far as health care is concerned, we all here notice that there are huge debts and great costs and we all comment on how to control it. But once again, when we get into the heart of all this, we all want the private sector that delivers maybe food or some kind of medical equipment not to wait 900 days to pay the bills, as well as each of us and the representative and citizen of the Republic of Croatia every day waiting to see if any expensive medicine will be approved to a sick person, especially children. We all follow that, and when we put it together in these discussions, we see that it's not easy to cut costs in health care, that it's not easy to reduce that debt. And I think that, despite everything, we have to say that despite the frequent performances and the destruction of the hours that were sitting there that didn't apply to the essence and that our entire government did manage to do a great job and that we have good results despite all these situations that we faced last year, and that the plans were realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57131	Thank you, too. You don't have a replica. Mr. Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57132	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with... colleagues and colleagues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is sad to discuss the most important document, the document that is the strongest leverage for economic policymaking, and that we have the situation in the assembly that we have. But obviously when something concrete is to be said and there are good results, when it should be said that something has been done then it is better to step back than to talk about it. So, what can be read from this budget execution and also the rebalancing proposal? So, all of those good macroeconomic indicators that have been achieved over the past two years can be read on the revenue side, because when you look at net wage growth, it means that income capacity of Croatian citizens has increased parallel to that and income from value added tax is growing, and excise tax revenues are also growing. Also, income from profit tax did not happen by accident. Certain economic branches have experienced recovery and the logical thing is that they have achieved excess income. profit and that the profit tax in the state budget despite a reduction in the profit tax rate has increased and will likely rise. And perhaps the Ministers of Suggestion, perhaps in a future report or during the debate on the budget, and perhaps even today when you have the final word perhaps to refer to the structure of which economic branches pay the profit tax. So, with all that's good, and someone liked it or didn't like it, but simply the indicators are good. However, there is a folk that when you need it in a shoe, you need to put a pebble in it so that it stings you so that you don’t fall asleep. And I would simply like to say that all the participants in the process of planning the state budget and spending the state budget, and especially us who make decisions because we are basically the ones who are ultimately raising our hands for that budget and giving government and state budget users to spend it, we have one thing in mind. So when you take 4 of the biggest consumers or 4 of the largest budget costs, then you come to some interesting conclusions, we talked a lot about one segment today, but pensions, salaries, health and interest costs are about cca 95, 96 billion state budgets. And when you move that European component, it's over 80% of your national budget. However, when we remove these interest rates, and pensions, and salaries and health care that are somewhere around 85, 86 billion state budgets therefore significantly burden the state budget, they are the reason and such tax burden. However, when you talk to Croatian pensioners they will say we are unhappy, we have small pensions and it is simply true. At this point, practically somewhere around 800,000 pensioners have a pension below 3 thousand kuna. When we talk about wages, then our customs officers, and tax collectors, and cops, and soldiers, and doctors, and teachers and teachers will tell you that pay is not adequate to what they should have, so ultimately, it is often said that doctors leave because they do not have large salaries. And I am sure that both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and the Resort Minister, would be willing to raise those salaries. However, it should be kept in mind what this budget is and whether these are some kind of structural challenges in the future for the government no matter what. Why? And I'm going back to health now. So, I was on behalf of the club this morning when I spoke to those five minutes then I was saying that for the last five years, every minister of finance, every government had one budget rebalance that provided a billion, two, three to cover their debts in health care. And it's even come up with some sort of Solomonic idea that health care is moving out of the treasure and everything is going to be okay. However, today, the health situation is 2 billion 900 committed. 8 billion and 200 total liabilities and this is a health situation. And now only two questions are raised. Whether someone will implement structural reform in health care or we will all say health care costs so much and that health care will no longer create losses we must provide health care with about 0.5, 0.6 of gross domestic products more resources in the budget with so much increase deficit and let's solve the problem for a while. So these are the facts. And now that you take these expenditures into the budget, when you take how very often we behave here when we discuss it, then you'll see that the finance minister has very little room for manoeuvre when creating the budget. However, what is very important and that we simply must never interfere with the mind is European funds. So much Croatia sacrificed, Croatian citizens, Croatian businessmen to complete negotiations and to join the European Union. The effects of entry into the European Union are seen by certain macroeconomic indicators. It is also economic growth, and some other indicators, export growth, because make sure that we are not a member of the European Union, that we are not open to borders, probably some of our entrepreneurs today are asking whether they would exist or work at all in this size. But with the opening of the European market they went alone, they found a job and they survived and that is one of the reasons why our macroeconomic indicators of exports have such growth back 3 years. However, is it a great responsibility for all those who, through various ministries, offices, agencies, can withdraw funds and not do so? And one elemental question is raised, and this question has long ago been raised as we talked about pre-accession funds when Croatia entered the European Union whether Croatia has enough strong, strong administrative capacity to create real and good quality programmes to achieve this withdrawal. It's a question we simply need to find an answer to. And if I don't take your time anymore, there'll be a replica. My colleagues and colleagues, was it an opportunity for us today to discuss what the government has done well, what the government has done wrong on the basis of arguments, because there is no stronger indicator than the figure. You can talk one way or the other, but ultimately it's the number that gives the right answer and there's no free performance and philosophy, and you'll see how many will be in the assembly tomorrow and what will be said when there are free themes, when everyone can say anything, and there's no effect on that. I deliberately touched some of the expenditure items in the budget that have followed over the past 17 years one and another political option. Practically, the Living Wall is the only one that has not participated in the government in certain moments in the Republic of Croatia. We can argue now, too, but if around health care, we will practically all, today, co-worker Lalovac, and Grcic, and Jovanovic and I agreed that this problem is like that, but then when the government proposes some things, then let us not politically prevent it, but because of the interest of Croatian citizens, because they have a better health service and that tomorrow can come to tax burden, then we must support it together. Then we'll show political seriousness and responsibility. So, along with the European funds, better use of property, I think that real conditions can be obtained for Croatia to move forward with a balance of budget towards another goal, which is to reduce tax burden for both Croatian citizens and Croatian economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57133	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. First Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57134	Dear Mr. Shucker, I'd like to tell you an interesting detail. In a country like ours that is in economic slavery, when I say economic slavery, it means that each year a billion kuna, let's say, Pliva gets out of Croatia, a billion TCOMs, etc. other companies, so banks are pulling out billions of profits and in circumstances where we still have to repay 45 billion kuna loans at the annual level to these foreign creditors, it is clear from the plane that Croatian debt cannot fall by nature. Or let's put it this way, if Croatian debt falls, what does that mean? Well, that means that there's a decline in the money mass inside the country. So you can cut the guy tomorrow's foreign debt by 2 billion kuna so you take 2 billion kunas from all the citizens in your pocket collectively and give to foreign creditors and you say bravo, we cut the debt by 2 billion kuna. But what's the result here? The result of what you're under quotes is that people are digging through garbage, that they don't have 3 kunas in their pocket. Well, that's the result of that policy. The result of this policy is that people flee the country, that there is no, that wages are a disaster, that simply kuna liquidity as such does not exist, that there is a payment crisis. That payment crisis hasn't existed since yesterday. She's the one who turned the CNB into the exchange shop, and she's supposed to be permanent. And what Minister Maric presents to us as a success, so God damn it, it's a disaster alive. People will lose their underpants. The jobs are every day. Wake up. Look at the number blocked, you'll all understand what the liquidity situation is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57135	You, too. A fellow Shuker answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57136	My colleague Pernar, the public debt is growing exclusively by the height of the deficit. You can finance the deficit in two ways. To be in charge or to sell the property. It's the only way. What you're saying is 40 billion, you're running out of one loan, you're raising another, but you're not increasing public debt. But count one thing. Given the historical low interest time you once raised that loan at 5.6% interest, today you are in debt at 2 and 3%. So, you're practically costing your debt that's interest, you cut 50% you know well when the monster has unfortunately been blocked. When people at the time when economic growth in Croatia was 4.5%, they raised loans, etc. The economic crisis has come, and unfortunately many of them have lost their jobs. Unfortunately, many have lost their jobs. Such a state through social policy should also be taken into account. But I repeat, debt reporting only increases for the amount of deficits you can finance exclusively to sell the property, so you don't need to borrow or borrow and thus finance it. When the budget is zero, then we'll say the public debt doesn't grow. However, the share of public debt in the gross domestic product has been reduced over the last few years due to various things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57137	Mr. Pernar, you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? And you can tell me why?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57138	I can. Article 238 means Representative Shuker insults common sense not only mine, but all of us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57139	.../Intruder Radin: No. No, you can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57140	And it's about the state...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57141	Mr. Shuker gave his opinion. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57142	But it's an offensive opinion to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57143	He gave his opinion this is the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57144	I have the right to answer his insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57145	This is the Parliament. He gave his opinion. He didn't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57146	Please just...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57147	Excuse me, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57148	He says the government debt can only grow for...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57149	It's you. Please, Mr. Pernar, don't kid us. Don't. Don't. Sit down. Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57150	Don't get in my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57151	Sir, don't fuck with us. You have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57152	You're kidding me, Mr. Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57153	You have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57154	Along with Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57155	Here you go, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57156	So the government debt is growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57157	No, no. Mr. Lalovec. Mr. Pernar, you have another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57158	The government debt is growing by the amount of interest, not just the deficit, because the interest is on the government debt, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57159	Mr. Pernar, why are you treating us like fools? For what? Come on, answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57160	So why does Shuker think I'm a fool?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57161	Why are you treating us like fools?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57162	So ask him why he insults me all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57163	Mr. Shuker gave his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57164	Well, I have the right to present him about his insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57165	When you express your opinion, it is your opinion that every time someone gives you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it would be the very injuries of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, as fellow Shuker said, what kind of budget structure is one part of health care, pension, salary and interest, actually, about 80 to 90%. And what might be good is that in the future when we discuss the budget because we now see only one item in the Ministry of Health that these are 24 billion kunas, perhaps in the future not only, but we know that there are certain structural problems that also these public companies that we know are entering according to the new methodology in part of the public debt, and that now, according to the public business methodology, we see that in the future, if we had an even more high-quality debate in this House, we might have a different display of public enterprises, and the structure of public debt, how these public companies are progressing. We know that there are big problems in the railways too, that there are big problems in the roads and about their reprogramming of their debt so that we know when they're speaking together, and now there's talk about public debt, when we're building roads, when we're building railroads, when we're building trains, when we have a Croatian train to say that when there's a certain part of the debt and 6 billion, 8 billion health care is going to become part of the public debt. So, when we're discussing the budget, I think maybe in the future we should think about when it's being presented that when we invest in certain infrastructure projects, these were infrastructure projects that were part of economic growth. It was a part of economic growth. They're not such policies anymore. We replaced them with EU funds. However, it is another period that we must bear in the future on part of the public debt. And that was part of the economy. Now they're not such policies anymore, we're turning to EU funds more. But when the debate is about public debt, I think it would be good to include all those who ultimately create the largest part of the public debt, what we said and public enterprises, and all those who need it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57167	Thank you. Mr. Shuker, you asked for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57168	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, unfortunately every time we discuss the budget we have little time to talk about extra budget users. However, these extra-accounted users are very tangling the daily standard of our Croatian citizens' lives from Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Croatian highways, Croatian railways. But what is very important, Croatian railways may have been, along with shipbuilding and agriculture for the last 15 years, the biggest consumer of the state budget, because guarantees, which are charged guarantees somewhere around 25, 26 billion Croatian railways have spent over the past 15 years. And the logical thing to think about. But we also cannot say that during that period from 2002 to 2008, infrastructure projects were not the main generator of economic recovery and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. So you remember, your government where you were, I think that at that time the deputy minister made a decision to increase the price of electricity 25% that these funds would be used for certain energy projects and that HEP would be the generator of economic recovery and economic growth. Because it was obvious that some other sources of income and investment in Croatia did not come at the pace they wanted. And it was wanted to encourage again practically something owned by the state to be the generator of economic growth. So at this point, we have one part of the public companies that can be, but also the biggest asset and the greatest power is in the funds of European funds. We just need to be smart, push them, use them because look at the story, one and the other and the third government were working on the Peljesk Bridge. Thank God, we have come to get practically nearly 200 million grants to build one of the most important infrastructure projects at this time not only because of its importance, but also because of Croatia's national pride to combine our two parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57169	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I answered the line when you started talking about good macroeconomic indicators despite which you should then start to think about other measures being implemented in fiscal policy. I just wanted to say that the tax reform the government proposed at the end of last year, which the minister then said would allow GDP to grow around 0.5%. The tax reform of the 16th was amended, and we practically relieved Croatian citizens according to the then projections of around 2 and a half billion kuna. At the same time, the revenues of the state budget were increased on all items, both in the VAT item and in the profit tax item and in the income tax item. So, although these measures have allowed citizens to reduce the tax base, it has nevertheless reached a growing base and there has been an increase in tax revenues which is the right way. What I would particularly point out when it comes to the rebalancing of the state budget is that at the end of the year the government remains in the positions of expected GDP growth, which was pictured around this same time last year. How well the ministry and the government have projected GDP growth is also talking about today's data confirmed by the European Commission, which also defines the growth of planned GDP growth this year and such projected GDP growth in the coming years. That's what I'm saying because we're practically discussing a document that speaks of the government's work, that's what you said, documents on government's work in the evening of the debate on the government's trust. So you rightly said here's what we see is that very few colleagues have been involved in the debate about the most important document in the fact that this document would certainly expose tomorrow's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57171	Thank you, Mr. Bacic. Thank you. Excuse me. But the time has passed. Answer. Thank you. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57172	Comrade Bacic, I said in my first line this morning in principle what you just said in the end. So, when there are clearly good macroeconomic indicators for some, it's obviously hard to admit. Today everyone has had the opportunity to come to this assembly, touch any segment of the budget, want to execute for the first 6 months, want to propose a budget rebalance and criticise both the minister and the secretary of state, and the Prime Minister for the management of the overall economic financial, fiscal policy, the finance minister for the management of fiscal policy, the minister of economy for these funds, the minister of regional development for the funds. So everyone today had a chance to say that. Yes, but in order to do that, you need to take that material out of a thousand and some other pages, of several thousand items, you need to go inside and you need to find an item and read and tell the one responsible for doing that budget you made a mistake there. Or what my colleague Pupovac said today wasn't spent that and those funds. So today was a chance to fight in the sports arena, today, because there is no stronger document than the state budget. It sums up all the laws passed over the years and over the years because the basis of these laws ensures both the revenues and expenditures of the state budget. So he's the policy measure that someone liked her or didn't like her. However, the European Commission, as you said today, confirmed the government's forecasts. And now remember your colleague Bačić what some said a few months ago that's going to happen because of Agrokor, etc. And look at today, the court in London is making some sort of verdict that Lex Agrokor is worth it, is that it? Now I want to know what the critics are going to say to you tomorrow, what they're going to call for the good God tomorrow. Is he going to say that maybe that court in London is weird, that someone took part in it, that this, that what, so I think very, very interesting will be tomorrow. Just remember these numbers we talked about today and just repeat them because Croatian citizens feel some things. You can't cheat on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57173	Mr. Varga, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Shuker, I've been listening very closely to what you've been saying about the health segment, and I'm very sorry that I wasn't here before this afternoon because you mentioned that you had an argument with your colleague, Lalovec, and with a colleague of the Greeks. Unfortunately, here I am, the user of the health system this morning. So I can only assume what it was about. Namely, you mentioned the fact in the treasure, outside the treasure. I'm glad Minister Maric is here. In 2016, the Croatian Government, led by the HDZ and Mosta parties, sent a report, i.e. the 2016 National Reform Programme, towards the European Semester, where in the opening part, they explicitly taxed the benefits of getting out of the treasure and where it was taxed that everything good in Croatian health was done in 2015. In 2015, neither Minister Lalovac nor I as Minister of Health had problems with health debts except what we had in previous periods. We started a fiscal year with 2 billion 800,000 kunas of dues. They ended up with 2 billion and 500. It says in a report sent by the HDZ government to the European semester. If he's lying to the HDZ Bridge, then I'm lying. So my question here is to you as an expert in finance and accounting, my question is, where is the state budget for 2017 in the 2018, 19 and 20 projections of the health debt? Where are they recorded and how are they viewed? We can also see in parallel, we have an extra budget fund called Croatian highways right there is a budget item called debt. For the health care of the state budget and the Ministry of Finance, there is no debt. Therefore, I believe that the Ministry of Health needs to be moved around its threshold, but I think the Ministry of Finance also has a lot of work to do in clearing up finances in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57175	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Varga. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57176	I answered it, I did it right away. A colleague of Varg's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57177	If the minister says he is, then he is....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57178	Yes, I did. My colleague Varg would never have dared speak so authoritatively of what you just said. Look, I said it today, take the 2011 State Budget Report all in one place at the Ministry of Health you have. Now you have the financial plan of HZZO as far as it came out. You have the position of the Ministry of Health of the Clinical Hospital, then I don't understand a colleague of Maric for whom you have provided these billions and 100 if there is no debt. Well, you've fooled us, pal. That's amazing. How can you tell us you've secured a billion and 100, colleague Varga says there's no debt? And I know that after my colleague Varga says there's no debt, and I know that after my colleague Varga, there are 2.5 billion outstanding claims left. I know that in 2012, my colleague Linic provided nearly 3 billion kuna for the rehabilitation of health care. So with that recovery where you've come to zero, you've left 2.5 billion kuna and there's still 8 billion and 200 dollars. But a colleague of Varga, to you and everyone else whether health care is paid through the treasury or through the budget is totally irrelevant, it's totally irrelevant. It is important that we, and you heard that you did not want to hear that we tell Croatian citizens that such a health care system as is now costing what has plus 0.5, 0.6% of GDP and that it is, either we are going to reform it or the finance minister will have to increase the deficit by 0.5, 0.6 and that is the truth that we, as responsible people for Croatian citizens, have to admit because if we don't do it again, someone in two, three or four years will talk about some kind of deficit as imaginary as it is. And you know very well what problems as a minister you had to make payments and that you were not at all comfortable with people when someone told you that you owed him 380 or 390 days of some kind of money, so these are facts. And I've been discussing facts with my colleagues today, and when you're discussing facts, then people agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57179	Thank you. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's fellow Shuker... for the replica first because of that beginning you said we were relatively small here. I don't think we're here... The SDPs little and that this is an important debate, not the most important document is the budget, and this rebalancing perhaps the grain is smaller. But you said we're just showing that we don't care. We absolutely care, but we're not the ones criticizing without any grounds. Yesterday, the prime minister told us that there was a debate at the bottom, and I really took it to heart, and I thought that he was really out of line in all of it, because as far as I know, no speaker on this side of the pay phone has had such an argument to qualify. And I think you're wrong when you say we don't care, we care clearly about it here and we replicate and we talk as much as we think we should replicate. I would ask you, and you were also talking about it when you said there's a saying about us saying it's being saved when it's there. The fact that at this point in time there may be a "good situation" in the state budget so I would ask you when you would have had, and I appreciate you as an expert in finance, you were also the finance minister, if you had a situation like this in the budget that you would do with that "high funds"? We know that we have huge problems with Croatian highways, huge interest rates, and you said yourself, would you be able to sort out the situation in the Croatian highways in some way, would you solve problems with INA? I don't know if you know in this INA situation there are mass layoffs, I don't know if you know that, does the Croatian public know mass layoffs? Would you go with a percentage increase in INA because we all know it's a strategic company? So here's a concrete question, what would you do with this so-called. excess resources in the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57181	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57182	My colleague Prelec, we've known each other for a long time, and I'm going to try to keep my debate at some level. You listed things that had nothing to do with the budget, so you were talking about HAC. HAC is not in the budget, Croatian roads are an extra budget user. The state gives HAC those 20 limes, gives Croatian roads 60 plus 20 limes, just a little bit. If you had been here all morning today, so I say I will choose words I would not want to hurt you with anything, the minister said it is going to go into financial restructuring of the debt of Croatian roads, Croatian highways and AZR and by re-financing in another way 10 billion kuna, and the company will only be on interest at the annual level of the garner around 300 million kuna. So when I, if you noticed when I was after explaining the revenue side then I said it was good to have a rock in my life to remind you that it could be worse and then I mentioned four of the biggest items of the state budget, and remember my colleague Prelec had problems there in 2013, in 2014, when the interest cost exploded. Why? Because Croatia was not because at the time the government was a bad minister or he was a bad minister but could not be more in debt on the world market. Today, the situation is much better and counterpart Maric explained nicely this morning how much interest savings are based on a more favourable situation and Croatia's more favourable financial market status, regardless of what those rating agencies are pounding, but those who invest in money have recognised that the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Government is leading a serious system policy and that it is worth investing in that is not a great risk. And that's why we have the kind of interest we have, that's just the facts. Look, the cost of interest from the state budget is lower now than it was three years ago, and in the meantime Croatia had to be very much in charge of covering the deficit, so these are the things we can discuss without anger but with arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57183	Thank you. Did you hear Mr. Lalovec's government wasn't bad back then, did you hear? Okay. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57184	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, be careful now that you answer to me, I may say something. So I believe I share that pleasure, after all I voted for tax reform except for that real estate tax, I'm glad the minister told it, pulled it away, which I'm extremely glad it didn't go. 2.7% of GDP growth is a great thing, the minister said in his explanation that this is the largest part driven by household consumption, goods exports, primarily goods and then services. I said this morning that any good now we have these good indicators, what to do now is not just go in a safe oasis, let's do something to stimulate even more economic growth. I suggested that next year, then another two years for one percentage point to take down the VAT by two percentage points. ... says there's no debt, and I know that after my colleague Varga there are 2.5 billion outstanding claims left. I know that in 2012, my colleague Linic provided nearly 3 billion kuna for the rehabilitation of health care. So with that recovery where you've come to zero, you've left 2.5 billion kuna and there's still 8 billion and 200 dollars. But a colleague of Varga, to you and everyone else whether health care is paid through the treasury or through the budget is totally irrelevant, it's totally irrelevant. It is important that we, and you heard that you did not want to hear that we tell Croatian citizens that such a health care system as is now costing what has plus 0.5, 0.6% of GDP and that it is, either we are going to reform it or the finance minister will have to increase the deficit by 0.5, 0.6 and that is the truth that we, as responsible people for Croatian citizens, have to admit because if we don't do it again, someone in two, three or four years will talk about some kind of deficit as imaginary as it is. And you know very well what problems as a minister you had to make payments and that you were not at all comfortable with people when someone told you that you owed him 380 or 390 days of some kind of money, so these are facts. And I've been discussing facts with my colleagues today, and when you're discussing facts, then people agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57185	Thank you. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's fellow Shuker... for the replica first because of that beginning you said we were relatively small here. I don't think we're here... The SDPs little and that this is an important debate, not the most important document is the budget, and this rebalancing perhaps the grain is smaller. But you said we're just showing that we don't care. We absolutely care, but we're not the ones criticizing without any grounds. Yesterday, the prime minister told us that there was a debate at the bottom, and I really took it to heart, and I thought that he was really out of line in all of it, because as far as I know, no speaker on this side of the pay phone has had such an argument to qualify. And I think you're wrong when you say we don't care, we care clearly about it here and we replicate and we talk as much as we think we should replicate. I would ask you, and you were also talking about it when you said there's a saying about us saying it's being saved when it's there. The fact that at this point in time there may be a "good situation" in the state budget so I would ask you when you would have had, and I appreciate you as an expert in finance, you were also the finance minister, if you had a situation like this in the budget that you would do with that "high funds"? We know that we have huge problems with Croatian highways, huge interest rates, and you said yourself, would you be able to sort out the situation in the Croatian highways in some way, would you solve problems with INA? I don't know if you know in this INA situation there are mass layoffs, I don't know if you know that, does the Croatian public know mass layoffs? Would you go with a percentage increase in INA because we all know it's a strategic company? So here's a concrete question, what would you do with this so-called. excess resources in the state budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57187	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57188	My colleague Prelec, we've known each other for a long time, and I'm going to try to keep my debate at some level. You listed things that had nothing to do with the budget, so you were talking about HAC. HAC is not in the budget, Croatian roads are an extra budget user. The state gives HAC those 20 limes, gives Croatian roads 60 plus 20 limes, just a little bit. If you had been here all morning today, so I say I will choose words I would not want to hurt you with anything, the minister said it is going to go into financial restructuring of the debt of Croatian roads, Croatian highways and AZR and by re-financing in another way 10 billion kuna, and the company will only be on interest at the annual level of the garner around 300 million kuna. So when I, if you noticed when I was after explaining the revenue side then I said it was good to have a rock in my life to remind you that it could be worse and then I mentioned four of the biggest items of the state budget, and remember my colleague Prelec had problems there in 2013, in 2014, when the interest cost exploded. Why? Because Croatia was not because at the time the government was a bad minister or he was a bad minister but could not be more in debt on the world market. Today, the situation is much better and counterpart Maric explained nicely this morning how much interest savings are based on a more favourable situation and Croatia's more favourable financial market status, regardless of what those rating agencies are pounding, but those who invest in money have recognised that the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Government is leading a serious system policy and that it is worth investing in that is not a great risk. And that's why we have the kind of interest we have, that's just the facts. Look, the cost of interest from the state budget is lower now than it was three years ago, and in the meantime Croatia had to be very much in charge of covering the deficit, so these are the things we can discuss without anger but with arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57189	Thank you. Did you hear Mr. Lalovec's government wasn't bad back then, did you hear? Okay. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57190	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, be careful now that you answer to me, I may say something. So I believe I share that pleasure, after all I voted for tax reform except for that real estate tax, I'm glad the minister told it, pulled it away, which I'm extremely glad it didn't go. 2.7% of GDP growth is a great thing, the minister said in his explanation that this is the largest part driven by household consumption, goods exports, primarily goods and then services. I said this morning that any good now we have these good indicators, what to do now is not just go in a safe oasis, let's do something to stimulate even more economic growth. I suggested that next year, then another two years for one percentage point to take down the VAT by two percentage points. Imagine Minister Maric, the first minister in history to take down VAT. That might cause economic growth. I'm not an economist, I can't judge it, but maybe, for some things, it would take courage. Or to say Minister Maric, let's in agreement with the business banks turn all loans into kuna. Let's see, in 2017, the CNB was saving itself from a heavy exchange rate, so it bought from the euro's business banks, let's deliberately crash the kuna course to help export, because exports generate economic growth. Because that's some things you might want to do now that you're saying now while the bag is full, so maybe it'll fill up even better. In that sense, I don't think there's enough courage for that. Of course, if I were a finance minister, then I'd probably think differently because that's what responsibility should be for first. But as they say in the people without risk, there's no profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57191	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker raised the bat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57192	Look, colleague Zhagar, every finance minister, no matter what political options he was from, when there's a surplus of revenue in the budget, then there's a lot of hungry mouths they want to take. And I think if you have looked at the draft budget for 2018 that my colleague Marić is already giving easy indications that the next step is all going as tax discharge. So you know very well that we are in public debt... 20 billion more of the shipbuilding restructuring imposed on us by the European Commission, then according to the ESA, they told us it had to go inside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it hadn't been for that, we would have already been very close to the 60 per cent master's criterion of public debt in GDP. So let us not forget some of the things that have been happening and that simply have been loaded. But I repeat, that pebble in the shoe warns us to be careful. You shouldn't run into money sharing, you shouldn't run into tax cuts, then you find yourself in a lot of trouble. But in order to ensure stability, then we need to make some structural reforms. So I didn't happen to count these three segments and the fourth is interest. Peace, pay and health care. That makes over 80% of the budget and just between the fifth and the 15th of the month you have to give over 250 thousand salaries. You have to give almost a million and 250 thousand pensions, you have to pay the costs in health care, you have to pay the child's allowance, you have to give the maternity benefits, you have to give the welfare care, and that's all you have to give between 5th and 15th. That's the facts. We can argue politically as much as we want, but our ministry colleagues clearly know every morning how much they're gonna send to whom to make it work together. I can't agree that my tax collectors and customs officers have the kind of pay they have. I'd like to have a bigger one, but the question is, can it be right now? But if I change some laws then it can be without a significant increase in pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57193	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Now let's continue the debate. Mrs Sabina the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would refer to the proposal for amending and supplementing the 2017 budget, i.e. the rebalancing of the Ministry of Science and Education where we see it shrinking, so the total amount is reduced by around 173 million and 540 thousand 929 kuna. It is not something that is a good trend, when we look at the situation in the Croatian budget which is still better a year, two, three. But when we get a little bit into the budget-cutting structure for this Ministry of Education resolution, then we can see that it's actually stuck to two key instances. The first instance is capital projects. I don't know what's going on here at the Ministry of Science and Education but the fact is that the funds that were intended for, say, the project in Babina Gredi OŠ Mijat Stanić, the Center for Education and Education for children with disabilities in Virovitica, the crafts school in Sisak, and then the construction of the children's kindergarten center, so on. The centre of Voštarnica, in fact, is greatly reduced or trendy, shows that this year's budget is not and will not be spent which will slow down the dynamics or will mean a complete giving up of certain projects and as already seen in the proposal for the 2018 budget that some projects will completely give up. We know that actually investments in capital projects are de facto in the jurisdiction of units of local and regional self-government, the state does not have this obligation to finance, i.e. investment in capital investments. However, the fact is that units of local and regional self-government do not have their own resources and especially regional self-government units that are competent for high school institutions are, in fact, in a way, in the majority part of the country's budget money movers at local level. To some extent, they have the original income through concessions but they don't actually have the original incomes to start with, so I'm going to express the school of construction and investment in capital investments in high school and local self-government units in primary school education. And there is the state that jumps in at the moment when it estimates that some projects are significant, that they respond in some way to a strategy or, that the development strategy of the education system and that it is necessary to create preconditions. So I think this slowdown in the dynamics of certain projects is definitely not good. When we look at another problem, meaning in the Ministry of Science and Education, which is forced to exist in the Ministry of Science and Education, while giving up capital investment, i.e. slowing down the dynamics of the envisaged investments, it is certainly what is the pain and other resors and that is the lack of use of funds. If we look first and foremost at various resolutions, it means that in some way science and higher education, science is the most but if we look at a national centre for the external evaluation of education which is one of the institutions I will not tell the agency, but institutions to which the Financial Body is the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, i.e. the competent authority. Then here we see that in fact their projected revenues are shrinking by, somewhere around 56 million kuna to 44 million kuna. That's a 12 million kuna reduction. When we look at the structure, then we'll see that these are the ISF funds. As far as I know what was going on at the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education, I can assume it's about giving up projects that should ensure quality assurance. I am referring to the external evaluation of education, which is foreseen by the Science and Education and Technology Strategy. The Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education has also, along with the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, actually suffered the greatest damage in terms of insufficient activity in the withdrawal of EU funds, and we see the same level. So by 25%, the rebalancing of funds is reduced, and again we see that it is giving up certain measures that are defined by the two operational programmes, which is on the one hand an operational programme of effective human potential which is in some way our mechanism for withdrawing funds from the European Social Fund. But on the other hand, at the Agency for Professional Education, adult education we also have this component of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion where we withdraw funds from this Regional Development Fund. This is also alarming because it points to giving up, or slowing down, dynamics, the realization of certain measures prescribed by the Science, Education and Technology Strategy. I cannot detect what this is really about, but it is certainly about measures that are related to the development of vocational education and training that the European Commission itself has conditioned us to do this programme, because it was simply not defined enough in the strategy. So all this together tells us that in 2017, regardless of what Minister Divjak and Minister Barisic assured us before her, that the Science, Education and Technology Strategy is being implemented, that it did not give up, or even this part of the curricular reform. But here she is now what I would say here in a secondary position by me. I think these fund-related things are actually very much related to the realisation of the Science, Education and Technology Strategy. Because when we adopted the Science, Education and Technology Strategy in 2015, together with the budget, the 2015 budget plan, the two operational programmes of competitiveness and cohesion and effective human potential, we have just created everything that the Republic of Croatia cannot finance alone, and it is foreseen that the science, education and technology strategy and action plan for the sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth year by 2020 create preconditions in these two operational programmes so that we can withdraw funds from the EU funds knowing that the strength of our budget cannot bear funding, i.e. self-financing, the national self-financing of all measures envisaged by the Science, Education and Technology Strategy. So what is currently happening at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2017 is not a good sign. We will see when we discuss the 2018 budget whether the situation will be better. Also for professional training and training of educational and educational staff in the system of primary and secondary school education, the funds are also reduced by 24%, which deprives Mrs Divjak in fact who says that we are in full preparation for the implementation of the curricula reform we are not. Because if we have ready documents on which she said a new working group is now working, a public debate will be held, so that they can be prepared to enter Croatian schools. Another key element when we have documents or programs is education for teachers and teachers. Without them, there's just nothing. So this shows that very little has been done with them, that in this part very little has been done. I hope that, in the 2018 budget, this item of professional training and training of teachers, or educational staff, will be a sign and support of Ms. Minister's arguments to go full ahead. And final. So this is not the only case, there has already been a lot of talk here today about the non-use of EU funds, meaning a reduction of a billion kuna within the EU funds actually represents very clearly unnecessarily unrealised unrealised projects. They will return to the EU budget. We wouldn't have to return them if we knew how to use them. There they are, the Ministry of Science is actually a small drop in the whole story, it's about smaller amounts. Key three ministries that in some ways run the economy most scheduled by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development. But on the other hand, this government very clearly shows that when we talk about the spending side, then we see that we increase the wages at the state level by 71.6 million plus other expenses for employees about 195 million. A total of 270 million kuna. I don't know how further employment in the state and public sector will be again, how in this way the excessive public debt will actually be disbursed, and whether we really shouldn't have these funds, these 200 million will be directed towards the development of the Croatian economy, especially if we take into account that the regional policy commissioner has just stressed the need to reduce the administration and red tape, which represents a small, medium-sized enterprise that has a difficult access to funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57195	Thank you. You've got replicas, so you'll be able to discuss the debate. First Mrs. Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57196	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representatives of Glasovac and most of your debates may agree, however, that this morning we also listened to representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Finance in the Ministry of Science and Education, but I would say that the overall picture may look bad in this rebalancing, but in the 2018 projections, 2019, I don't think that this budget will look that way. What I can agree with you, which is that we are dissatisfied with withdrawing funds from European funds, however, so we do not need to seek responsibility in the Ministry of Finance. The responsibility is of course on individual ministries, and so on the Ministry of Science and on human potentials that have actually been capacitated and trained to withdraw these funds. Unfortunately, the European Social Fund, which is mainly destined for use in the Ministry of Science and Education, including for education, is not the most teachers you have mentioned enough. I'd say it's not about the discontinuity and the withdrawal of funds, but it's simply about changing the ministry's priorities. And what should also be noted is the realisation of the strategy, as a roof document at the Ministry of Science and Education, but, of course, as you yourself know, the strategy is prescribed, i.e., the way and the speed and the modality, actually the action and withdrawal of funds determines an action plan that has not yet gone into realisation. I believe that now, after reviewing all the carded documents, they will know what to do with them and what dynamics to actually implement them through the budget for the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57197	Thank you very much. Replication response, Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Putica, we certainly know what we're talking about because that's what we've been meeting and living in the ministry for days and facing these problems. You're right when you say that dynamics are actually not satisfactory. But what worries me is when you said the ministry's priorities changed. The strategy of science, education and technology is kind of our priority. Okay, we've made a certain action plan. Under this action plan, we planned a budget for 2015 and operational programmes for 2014-2020. The action plan was not respected in a dynamic in which it should be respected for various reasons. However, what is not good is that we already have a draft budget for 2018. You could change action plans and say, okay, we don't have a priority anymore. I don't know how to license the director, for example, we don't think it's crucial at this point. We'll invest more in another segment. However, the 2018 budget adopted by the Government, which will come before us by the representatives, has been adopted very quickly, and is not an action plan for the implementation of the science and education strategy of technology yet to be adopted. It was made by this group of Mrs. Diane Vican, he went to the Ministry of Education Science to see Mrs. Divjak that they were manifesting themselves about him. We have no idea what happened next, but that's not good. It's not good and it's not something he promises. So, this action plan was planned in mind, and when it is adopted, we will actually have no guarantee, its financial sustainability, or guarantee its implementation. Why? Because we will not know what this action plan provides for 2018, which we will finance from the state budget, for which we have the funds, for example, 200 million for European funds, for European schools, which we must pay from the state in 2 years, the rest of the EU funds goes to 85%. That's how we should know about the whole... What I think is a bad sign that it's not going to be very good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57199	Thank you. Mr. Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are, colleague Voter, I'm glad we have maybe a little bit, by some ministry discussion. Because today we've actually been talking about income structure, cost structure, so how it works, what is the deficit, what is the public debt. I think this is the first concrete debate that hasn't touched health care. We talked about health reform in the pension system, and I think that reforming all reforms is a reform of education. In fact, whatever tomorrow defines our labour market, and some structure is educated, the structure will eventually define what our incomes will be, what our expenditures will be. What's the budget going to look like, how many young people we're going to have, how many unemployed we have, how many evicted we have. Unfortunately, it's a reform of all reforms. And unfortunately, we're talking a little bit about this reform. I was sorry to hear that even in capital projects, which I believe are very important in the education system, even rebuilding schools and secondary education are very important projects. What we have heard here is the weaker use of EU funds, especially grief, because if we know that the Ministry of Science that predominates in the use of EU funds, because they have young, educational people who can, compete and receive EU funds. We see that there was no reduction in employees, but even more than state secretaries and assistants, etc. It's actually been brought here. And what I am ultimately interested in is whether or not you have seen or perhaps in the 2017 budget how much educational reform will cost them. We talk about it a lot, so... We have to have funds for this, and we need it, and we also need it, with these two projects, because we can't have either solved, pension or health care, unless we've made an educational reform, so I'm glad we've heard about this detail and educational reform, but I'm very sad that these money in science is not fully exploited, but I'm interested, and as much as I hope, in the future, there will be much more resources for this educational reform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because then the multiplier will be much bigger than even tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57201	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57202	Thank you. Dear colleague Lalovac, I did look at the draft budget for 2018 there one of the major education reform increases writes to you one item, the implementation of the curricula reform, somewhere along the way it turned out entirely. Your increase is so impressive. So when you see an increase from this year is 34 million kuna. However, when you enter a bit of structure, then you will see that 26 million kunas of these 34 actually invest in computers, i.e. computers. I was also talking about it in the current class. I don't mind informing our schools. However, the fact is to insert computers on the one hand into perpetrators who are sneezing and do not have heating, it's a little absurd on the one hand, and on the other hand, a full curricula reform if it's understood only as the introduction of information and investment in computers doesn't make sense. When we talk about the revenues that should be provided or the means that should be provided for the implementation of the curriculative reform, it is very difficult to say. What are the key investments is the education of teachers, teachers, which should be provided at the positions of the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults and Education Agency. On the other hand, curricula documents are over, there will be no more funding for these members of the external group, the project of that school goes, that country Croatia is coming out of its co-financing in some way this year and the next few years it will be fully financed from EU funds. And what is crucial is the investment of capital investment where we can withdraw funds are not unfortunately investments in kindergartens and primary schools, it has failed to negotiate, but are investments in vocational schools from the ERDF and the ERDF. But we have all these funds in funds in both funds by 2020 just have to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57203	Thank you. Mrs. Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Voter in most things this is all you've said I agree with you, just let me confirm some more and add some of my thoughts. So the fact that these 173 and something half a million seems to me a million less in the budget for the education and science division for this year, most of it is not withdrawn funds from the eu funds, and when you look a little bit more closely, these are the funds that are transferred through the budget over the year. Now we can even think a little bit about not only whether the funds are realized or not, but also the way they're planned. So there's room to think about whether we really planned it or went to some other extreme. The second thing, that's exactly the kind of situation we're in is a message to all of us that we need to strengthen the capacity to prepare the eu funds projects, so the capacity I mean capacities primarily human potentials. For example, you have an example that when you take a closer look at universities, for example, the University of Rijeka did not withdraw 53 million kunas somewhere, it is approximately a reduction because there was a problem with incomplete documentation, the missing projects, so really real damage. As far as capital projects are concerned, I also highlight Babina Greda, including Zadar Center for Children, including Sisak, and my Virovitica Center for Education and Education, some of these projects are indeed removed from the budget. I know, for example. in Virovitica we didn't have all the documentation and we didn't get to implement it, but of course it's the key to capital projects, but it's a lesson that we have to change the paradigm in general budget planning and funding because it's been a great golden time of famous... so we have to rely on eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57206	Well, maybe we did blow up some of the items and budgets for 2015 when we planned how to implement the measures in the strategy, and we did not want to do that. We may have also made an observation in this part of the planning... when we talk about aliocations, but I say again through this action plan and parallel budget planning for 2018, with an action plan which unfortunately has not yet been adopted, it could be kind of advertised and seen. I mean, we've been pioneers here, as they say, maybe we've made a mistake somewhere, but we haven't made a mistake in the sense that we've planned less. Maybe we've had a little bit to say that we've recalculated. I'm appealing to you, well, you can't do it for 2018 now, but in the future, try to fix it and sort of redistribute it. Surely what I agree with you is that our institutions should be strengthened where there is not a country holding certain projects, whether the agency, whether the ministry but the school, our universities that we need to strengthen them I support this idea of Minister Divjak if indeed schools or employees who will withdraw EU funds will increase salaries and release parts of teaching, it is extremely good that it is only with them as parts of the system that will be able to draw funds, work to ensure quality improvements in the system we can implement not only curricular reform and strategy but to improve our education system. I say let's see what you can do, speed up here I ask you to have some influence in the party as HDZ representatives speed up the adoption of an action plan, now you can't do this in planning for 2018, but that it really has some logic to see what the priorities are and what it is that you can guarantee that you will implement from the strategy in 2018 and what we will pay for, where it is to the state budget, and what it is in the funds we can use.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57207	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57208	Thank you. Dear fellow Glasovac, I'd like to ask you to explain a little bit to me, because now it's gone some way, I don't know which part of it is funded by the founder, and which part of it is from the ministry. In fact, when you talk to teachers, teachers, professional associates, they regularly complain that professional training in their case is a big problem because finances are a problem. often they don't have a living room or a go for gas, and I don't know what part of it the founder of which ministry is funding, but I noticed this information that you said almost a quarter of the funds were reduced. So I'm curious whether these funds mean that there will be fewer of these meetings of professional, less active, less of all, or simply less of the resources in total and for the departure of teachers, professional associates and professors, if that's all you can explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57209	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Voter's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57210	So as far as I know how to finance, if this is on the subject of the Education and Education Agency, it would mean changes in the professional training plan and training plan of the Annual Plan of the Education and Education Agency, which would mean that something is actually changing, it decreases in the organisation of the agency itself when we talk about expert meetings. Speaking of participating in professional gatherings, unfortunately, the state doesn't cover it, yes. It is the responsibility of units, i.e. founders, or schools that are further funded in that part of the founders, which is very often an obstacle to many schools, many employees and unfortunately are not able to participate, unless it is mandatory, if the state does not prescribe that it must and we know that it is very often dependent on them and their progress on it. And there's a system that may not be the happiest regulated. We didn't change it, we didn't deal with it structurally, but it's definitely something that we're going to have to deal with in the future, we're going to have to deal with it. Because if we expect from our teachers and teachers, and that's the need of the system, in fact, that they continuously train professionally, because it's the only key to a quality system of education, then we're going to have to take on ourselves as a state of responsibility to finance that same let's say, and now you get along as you know and can. And they very often have a county if I'm talking about high schools they don't have where to finance it through school, and unfortunately that's the sad truth. If we want this curricula reform we're going to have to take that financial risk and that burden on ourselves as a state, otherwise if we leave it to what you know is our glory, it's your responsibility that won't be good. What's happened with this Defense Act to transfer to, say, units... That's impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57211	Thank you. And now I think we're going back to the fundamental economy. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs, MPs. How would I describe the budget for this year and the projections? It looks like this to you. He invites his wife and children to dinner and he says you won't be hungry and thirsty next year, so you won't be barefoot or barefoot, but we'll keep driving that old car. Do not accidentally make someone sick or have to fix their teeth, you will not be able to study them all, and the Internet forget the Internet, and travel by no means. In two days, when we find ourselves again, each of you will tell me from what I said we can still save on. Here's a respected colleague and fellow citizens who are watching us, and that's the story of the Croatian budget, and I'm not going to talk here about the houses where someone moves something in this orphanage that has hit Croatia and everyone boasts about it. I'm going to have a conversation about this problem. First of all, public debt figures are not correct. Around 14 billion kunas of company debts owned by local administrations and self-government are not included in public debt. For example, Zagreb Holding remained. About 8 billion kuna health shortages are not included, it ends up in public debt. Not to say that GDP growth data isn't exactly what I need more time for, and that's not the occasion. Therefore, not all other data are accurate. Why there was an increase in revenue in the budget that is clearly true. They came primarily from the tourism area thanks to tourism consumption, and here it is said that only in the 7 month income from VAT has increased by a billion kuna. Is this the result of a thought-out economic policy or... ? Well, of course not. We just had a situation that because of the accident in other North African countries, the Middle East, because of terrorism and the rest of it, we have God's thanks that the tourists came, spent, and here's the income. But I'm paying attention to the following. Almost two-thirds of the budget or 60% are charged indicatively as of any year, filled with VAT. Now the question is, who's the most involved in paying the VAT? Well, the most involved are poor groups in society because they spend the most. There are workers, peasants, pensioners, and rich layers they either spend little in Croatia or there are fewer of them, of course. On the other hand, despite the fact that over the back of these endangered people, the government is the highest government since it comes constantly inventing new taxes or taxes on taxes, so it pulls one back to come up with a better marketing name to reintroduce them and return them as a real estate tax. But to be specific. The interest rate on public debt is extremely important and dangerous. Here's a concrete example. Kunski part of the public debt is about 160 billion kuna, I said that a year ago two, I'll repeat. The average interest rate on that kuna part of the public debt is about 5%, which means 8 billion kuna per year for interest. I suggested that it be refinanced and that 4.8 billion kuna be saved, and we got the report and the minister says we saved 750 million kunas. Okay. Positive, but you could've saved another four billion. But this government doesn't have the power to cut through and say we won't be filling the bank's cash registers and all those creditors who invested. There's no need to explain what anything with another 4 billion kuna would have to be saved on interest on this part of the public debt kuna could be financed, but you can imagine what else could be paid for 4 billion kuna. The following example is the Croatian highways and they eventually enter into public debt. They became a public money swallower, a budget money that we all pay. A little while ago, my colleague Lalovac was talking, and I don't really know what the data is at the end. If they owe 40 billion kuna, so let's assume that the average interest rate is 5%, they have to pay 2 billion kuna a year on interest alone. Now look what it's all about. The Chinese made an offer to build the Peljesk Bridge for 2 billion HRK 600 million. If this government were just HAC's debts and they didn't do anything there, it could have been saved for a year and a half, so let's say for two just on interest, the Pelješki bridge is funded, and here on your knees, praying to the EU, godfather, they say do it then you will, etc., so we could make it out of interest, gentlemen, do it. What's he saying? That others lead us to politics and that they do not want to reduce this carcinogenic part of the expenditure of the state budget, these are interest rates to banks and other financial institutions. The Change Party Croatia will not be critical to this budget and projections, the 2018 projections, 2019, 2020 are projections, here you can not say, write wishes. We'll be constructive, and you can see that we're doing an argument, we're offering solutions, and that's how we're going to proceed. The opposition can only be imposed on this government by offering a solution, whether there are 30, 10 or 2 MPs in opposition. Only citizens will recognize the right solutions and those in their interest. In this way this budget, I will not enter other segments, it is not even fair, it is not developmental because it is already said that capital investments are shrinking and therefore we have a problem. Any one of those budgets and GDP growth that is based solely on consumption can be very problematic and risky. We need investment, we don't have enough investment, and we see why. One more thing is very important here. GDP growth is forecast to be 2.9, so someone says it's not but 2.8, some say optimistic 3%. And I say, 3% of GDP growth is enough just to service interest, therefore there is no development. Such an economic policy is unspectived, we have a non-conceptional state to say it. I know, no one should worry about this House, that this budget will be voted on, has enough hands because the trade has already been done, but these are not solutions for Croatia. But never mind, this government and this policy are ready to move everyone out of Croatia just so they stay. So, this kind of economic policy that has been run for years in a way that only uses fiscal policy, it is unacceptable, it does not offer hope, then it does not offer a perspective for our children to stay in Croatia. This is a policy of poverty and migration. But what can we do, gentlemen? I said I'd offer solutions. You see, I offered how to refinance large loans, debts, how to save billions, you see, if we had refinanced debts, we would be in surplus for these 4 billion I was saying this year, but there's one more thing. If the second pension pillar were transformed, so the public finances in Croatia would have been more healthy, but I see when I opened that topic a year and a half ago, I was literally cut off from these regimeal media, and that's what my colleagues confirm, then we were opposite each other. But today the media is saying, they're asking questions, I'm looking open last night, it's not taboo anymore, I'm glad about that. So it makes sense to be here, to offer solutions. If the second pension pillar is transformed in a voluntary way into the first or whoever wants to stay in the second, Croatian public finances will heal but look, it can only be done to you by new people, not by the political options that have brought us into crisis because they neither want nor know, but only by new political options and new people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57213	Thank you very much. We've got one replica of the esteemed representative of Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, so at the very beginning you said here, maybe it missed other colleagues, as the scope spreads, what it all really belongs to part of public finances and part of public debt. So it used to be just looking at the ministries, mostly health care, social services, pension system and several years ago EUROSTAT expanded it and said no, no more, now all part of Croatian roads, Croatian highways, etc., and you hit this very well. So they're working on it so it doesn't surprise us, and I'm glad you mentioned it, they're trying to include utility companies, and you're just mentioning one with your big debt that's also going to increase the share of public debt. This raises the question whether or not some roads, as BINA Road in Istria, Istrian Ipsion, means whether or not it will be put into it, we know that even one part when the Zagreb Airport was financed have also shown one part since the state itself guaranteed a part of that traffic, so that today when we talk about public debt spheres, we must certainly take care of its coverage because today many are playing, signing contracts, etc. or some companies are not under supervision, and one day they come and pound the budget and then they ask questions as to how to cut and how to manage public debt. But this second part that you hit very well is the whole time here emphasis on fiscal policy. Here you have opened the issue of monetary policy for the first time today, and when you ask the governor, he will just say that the whole sphere of solving our problems is in fiscal policy and that their mission is over and when it comes to monetary policy, they say that they have completed their task but they do not seem to have started since the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57215	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57216	Dear fellow Lalovac, it is true that in the end however methodologically we put something or exclude it as an example of health care here you see, either the Ministry of Finance or the CNB. But it's still leaking. So 8 billion and only one abnormal state shows that it's not a state you understand. When someone doesn't know how much health care will end a year, then you can see it's a country where it leaks all over the place. And now, no one mentions these 8 billion being shut down. But what's important and what needs to be pointed out, you underlined it. Monetary policy is not used at all, only fiscal policy is used. Why? Well, because they can't touch anything there, no one's questioning the way she works at the CNB. And on the other hand, advice comes from there, be careful, you can't interfere there, and from there you can get involved in matters that need to be done by the government, the prime minister, the president, etc. Why is that? Well, it's not just something that's going on in Croatia. This is happening throughout Europe and the developed part of the world because capital, let's say, financial capital has taken over political power. It never can and never has, and that's why we have problems. It must be the opposite that the representatives of the people, so the political power of us, to control the processes, or to be the highest form of government. And finally, the problem arises because I say it comes from finance or capital. Therefore, freedom belongs to the people, not to the capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57217	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Mark Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57218	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear ministers. Here today at the end of this day, at the end of this debate, the united one relating to the budget, I actually volunteered for an individual debate to say some kind of vision, I will, of course, look back at what I'm always talking about, and that's the aspect of the state budget relating to local self-government, actually the impact that it had. Of course the budget as a document is always very complex to bring, it's always something you can be or something where you can be against. We are in a situation that our economy is growing in part because of internal and external reasons, in my opinion they're also more external which is also mentioned on several occasions here today, but well that's some sort of thing that we can look at one way or another. As far as local self-government is concerned, I am talking about this year, even though I know that it may later be through replicas mentioned in the new Law for 2018. But local self-government was actually frozen in 2017 at the level it was in 2016. So we made decisions here through that tax reform, through the new budget we spent, we abolished the company tax, so that's where local self-government lost about 130 million kuna. And you also know that by actually raising these tax rates, raising, reducing tax rates and raising the non-taxable income, local self-government has also lost certain funds that are truly compensated. However, of this economic growth that we had in 2017, unfortunately local self-government, once again I have been speaking since 2017 has not been of any use. That's the facts. Now we can discuss what happens by the year. If we adopt, of course, a new law on the financing of units of local self-government and we probably will, but we'll discuss it when we're making a new budget or in a year when we'll talk about rebalancing again. The second thing I would like to mention, which I think is good, is certainly this increase means for the elemental disasters from 20 million kuna to 100 million kuna, something similar to my colleague, Sinish Hajdash-Doncic, I also suggested in the adoption of the state budget itself, and then it was not adopted through the amendment. But this amount is actually too small, this amount is too small. We have to be aware that the elemental disasters are increasingly common, that we won't actually be able to finance them completely, nor with this 100 million kuna we solve almost nothing because the estimated damages are now at 3 billion kuna, the last one we haven't even had final data yet. But, well, this can be said to be some kind of progress. I hope you'll also think about some change in the model we're going to make up for in the future. Mostly I am now, since I come from the northern part of Croatia where they were not this year, we have not had luck and usually we do not have fires, floods and such things but we have, of course, basic disasters that relate to agricultural crops where little different things are needed I think the current model that still co-finances this part and it should be provided in the state budget. And the third thing I'm going to look at is that, of course, this thing about EU funds where we see that we have failed. We did not take that one key step to withdraw more funds from the EU funds. HDZ has been here for two years in some kind of combination in power and we don't have that real step-up. This is, of course, reflected in local self-government because with these revenues and those with which we are now at our disposal and with incomes to be available by year or 2.3 years from now, we will not actually be able to make the one development step that we should make locally without these funds in the EU funds. We still don't have them, you still see that we're rebalanced now and we're reducing that by more than a billion kuna. So you have a situation to have a rural development program and then you're waiting for a contest that you reported at the 11th month last year, you still don't have the results. There's a lot more of these examples, I'm not going to name them. Let's say this particular competition refers to a competition to pave the way for unclassified roads. So who needs a year to assess who they're gonna give for some unclassified road in two, three kilometers to pave the way for. I think it's one absurd thing, and that's how the local unit budgets are planned, so you have some colleagues who plan the budget, and they blow up the budget, and then we have to cut it by 100%, so we're going to be smaller, and so on. Here I have briefly looked back at what I think is important, that it's important from the point of view of a local one, so if you want a regional one, because I'm a leader there, I live there, and I think I know these problems best. I didn't support the budget when it was being passed, and I won't even support this budget rebalance. I believe that for local self-government in the following year, however, there will be something better, the funds are increasing, it is true, what is not good to bring everything down to income tax, and we can see that unfortunately it is also coming through this half-year budget implementation report that incomes from income tax are falling. It is likely to fall in the future because the state is always, in some ways, intervening in income tax, trying to increase citizens' wages, and on the other hand, it is the only key income from local self-government units and they will lose again. In the long run, we are not dealing with this new law either, I went a little off topic, nor with this new law, unfortunately we are not solving the long-term financing of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57219	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vesligaj, well, here you and I are the people who run the local self-government unit, so I'd like to ask specifically, and we're always talking about the funds being available to us, that there's a great use of funds. What is your opinion, did these procedures for obtaining funds from European funds have been reduced lately, as we constantly criticise that this is much more accessible today than ever before, is your opinion that the absorption of the funds themselves is now much greater than it was before? And yet another question, as the leader, I ask, we here in the Croatian Parliament have not yet passed the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, and we are already under obligation as a unit of local self-government to make a budget for 2018. Here's my question: how do you handle it at your local level, and we know that here's how we depend on this law on funding units of local self-government, and we're still not in a clear way to form and say what kind of budget you're doing, and is that something we have to do together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57221	Thank you, fellow Prelac for asking. I think I mentioned through the debate how complex and complicated these procedures are. Here's the Minister of Agriculture yesterday at the Current Clock said he'd try to change the rules and it'd go a lot faster. I hope it will be so, I really hope it will be so and that we will not say more for measure 7.2. which refers to the asphalting of unclassified roads should wait longer than a year for the announcement of the competition, whether you have received the funds or not. And after that, you have the whole procedure, you need to conduct public procurement, there should be some appropriate weather conditions, so it comes to you for a couple of years, so that you can actually realize and pave the two kilometers of road. What you mentioned is also true, we still haven't passed the Law on the financing of local self-government units by 15.11. We should submit the draft budget to the president of the municipal or city council, so we still don't have it, waiting for another reading I hope will come. What I also think is bad that we are passing this law without a new Law on Regional Development and without a new Index of Development is that these two laws are extremely connected because the intensity of the new law is as much as we had the opportunity to see through the first reading is that this regional component that existed so far in the Law on the financing of local self-government units is no longer implemented through the new Law on the financing of local self-government units. So again they won't know exactly what they have in 2018, and again I repeat that problem, we've all now reduced to the full funding of local self-government units we're... income tax which I think is not good in the long term. He will now outsource those revenues in one part and lead to even certain equality, but in the future these revenues will decrease and we will still have a problem how to solve the financing of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57222	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57223	Dear Minister Maric. Again we find ourselves in let's say they're not exactly tiny hours, but the assembly is again more empty than full, and the topic is still the same, which is the way of financing the state budget and thus its implementation. Your model that you are just spending, and you are not its creator, is essentially an infinite borrowing, by beating up debts by taking new debts, etc., etc., which in one jargon can be called debt debt, interest on interest. And through that borrowing process, there's always that other process, you know who it is, the sale of property. So the state can't be in debt indefinitely and preserve the property it has or better stated social rights of its citizens or not introduce some of the burdens that creditors are looking for, etc., etc. Now, what choice is ahead of us? Well, the choice is to support that policy or not to support it. You're a professional working for wages as well as we are, except your employer asks you to run some kind of double bookkeeping where you don't book credit expenses in expenses. So the state budget works in a way that 45 billion kuna credits the state has to repay, they are not driven through budget expenditures, but they are made so-called. A special book is called a financing account, and then you are bound by the debt obligations of the debt to return those loans are kept in a separate book. Similar accounting was given by your employer, Mr. London citizen, Ivica Todorovic, yesterday. Ivica Todorovic also covered up the real state of debt and assured everyone that he was in the plus. What you are doing today, or your function as Minister of Finance, is essentially to show negative business indicators as positive and even if you went one step further, to claim that there is even an surplus in the budget, although there is an surplus, that there is a surplus, so logically the state would not be in debt. What would be the point of why a state that has extra money is raising loans, it doesn't make sense, or it makes sense if it realizes that there's actually no surplus, but only a deficit that counts in billions as well as in the case of your previous boss let's say that Ivica Todorovic. Ivica Todorovic also said in his time that he has such experts around him in Agrokor, so that he could give 20 Croatian prime ministers. And you almost became one of them. You were offered as a candidate for prime minister. And I remember my colleague Sincic asked Mr Sincic if you would support Todorovic's manager as prime minister. And we knew by then what kind of model Todoric was leading and we were disgusted and disgusted. But of course, as you assume, you've only recently learned about it. Imagine what paradox! By the start of this year, you thought there was nothing wrong with the company in Agrokor. And you actually heard in the media that something was wrong, that was your first voice. You said, Mr. Scibola, if it's possible that something really is wrong. Now I've read it. Let's say it's picturesque that they're having liquidity problems, etc. And that's what's called an operational plan for those regressing bonds, etc. who collapsed and I didn't count any further. Anyway, what you're asking us to believe is that we trust you. However, how can we trust you, Mr. Maric, how can we trust you after all? She has a saying that the hardest thing to do is to be a man first of all, and we say how to trust you after all. Simply Plenkovic trusts you, but the question is how much he actually trusts you. And maybe you're speaking to each other honestly, and with us, you're speaking very well to me honestly when we're in four eyes and I'm with you. But for the public, he hears something, let's tell the public he needs to hear. And we're not gonna tell the public what we shouldn't hear, yeah. And in that world where the public is told what she should hear, the public is actually, or she's not convinced, she's trying to make sure everything's okay. Like until yesterday, you said Agrokora was all right, said a colleague of Greeks shouldn't even be spreading bad news. He even went into the realm of superstition. He said if bad things were said, and then things could go wrong. That's Louise Hay. Is it? The power of positive thinking thinks positive and positive things will happen. It was the politics of Branko Greeks. You probably thought if I thought positive, everything should be positive. However, once or twice the burden of irreparable debt was struck by a company or a state, and then the tarrapan is on the move. That's when he tries to finger the culprit, etc. However, I can tell you one thing. As much as everyone yells at you as a man on the human side can say that you are correct. I say from the human eye, in four eyes, you've been honest with me, you've drawn everything for me as it stands, and you've been correct to me. And I understand that you have a job like I have a job that just happens to be our job diametrically opposite. So you have to convince the citizens that everything is fine, and my job is to say on the side of the opposition that it's not okay. But the question is essentially which one of us is right. And of course you have enough representatives to raise your hands. That's what I said to half-trons who would clap on Plenkovic as well as that month before Karamark. Maybe they'll clap in a few days, you never know. But I want to tell you these people who are going to vote for this policy that you are implementing, they don't really believe in it themselves, and they do it for ground-floor reasons, not because they really believe that this budgetary, or monetary policy is correct. But in this world of big business, let's say, we're all friends of Maric's expendable goods. And our country is expendable and we all get together. Can you imagine that? The only thing the creditor's goal is to keep this policy going. And that policy has to break eventually. You were convinced when you were working for the boss, and you were thinking, you know what, you're thinking about how long it lasts, it lasts. That's what Todorovic thought. How long does it go, then when it's gone and then what? It'll be what happens. And that is the way of thinking that we in the Living Wall have rejected. We've said we can't think of going as far as it goes, but today we need to look for which is a sustainable model, which our country's economic model, our budget however it can take the right way. And I would ask if you believe that this budget or this economic model that is being implemented in Croatia will lead us to a better future. I don't doubt what your answer is. Of course he can. Right? However, the vast majority of citizens see that no matter how long he spent and still cannot. And that's where that conflict was at war, so reason and let's say emotions. So emotions tell you this will work, everything's fine, and yet... He's telling you, and maybe it's not all right after all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the end of the day, at the end of the day, the line will be drawn. And the same media that is now raising you, who are speaking, see what Maric is an expert, see how Maric does it well, etc. who are asking you for an interview. With tomorrow, maybe someone will talk to the boss, see what kind of criminal that was, and imagine that circus, he's running. Did you see him run? From the cameras, did you see that? Well, that was your boss, man. He was your employer. And imagine when your only one, or, let's say, is the main reference experience with that employer. And how can we know that tomorrow when someone asks us to return that money, which you've put us in charge of, that you may not be the same way out of this assembly or wherever you're going to run from. How? No, we can only hope for the best, but of course prepare for the worst, because in this policy, this black scenario is very, very, unfortunately certain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57224	Thank you very much. Here you will now have the opportunity to hear again the esteemed representative of Pernar, this time finally in the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57225	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a unique opportunity for me to address you, because most of our citizens don't have that chance. Most of them don't. We've got 151 of us. And you see, Reverend Minister, all the time in this assembly, you know what he's trying to do? It's trying to show a political conflict, like a conflict between personalities. Guy's gonna be somebody or somebody else. Let's say he's on a personal level. However, the real conflict, ladies and gentlemen in our country, is not at all personal, personally. He is deeply ideological and he is related to whether the role of money is the exchange of goods or the creation of debt. Both the complete political elite and the HDZ and the SDP and all these parties that co-operated with or co-operated with them do not really question the debt doctrine. That dogma that's leading us to ruin. And one of those who said he was leading us to ruin is Slavko Kulić and he explained how. He said, we got into a debt Bob track. What a bob trail thought. If you've ever seen it, and I know it, I guess it is, and I've been looking at it, and there's no getting out of that track, once you're going down. I mean, the only way out is when you jump out of it. It is difficult to come out in another way, which will say, that from this economic model that we are implementing, says Slavko Kulic, other known economists say, breaking is the only way out. And the whole country's going to break, but you know who you fellow Members of the Parliament remind me of? You remind me of that crew that goes to 3D cinema, so they have those glasses that show a picture different than she is if we were without those glasses. And I imagine, how you all have pink glasses and how you convince each other and the public, that by implementing this policy, it will all end positively. Like I said... the power of positive thinking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, Mr. Maric, I know you'd like to talk to someone else, but here's another 5 minutes if you can. Oh, thank you. I'm sorry. Now, you're thinking positively, but unfortunately, the things that happen have a negative sign. And I remember Colinda saying we shouldn't look black and negative. You remember that, too. She said you should look positively. But even she let's say, she saw, is it honest or not, but she also said, this is one crazy story. And what's interesting is she's not reducing the number of unemployed, because the number of employees is growing, but because people are leaving the country. So, we're painted in one Titanic, the Titanic is sinking, and now I'm one of those people who tells people, let's get rid of the holes, let's get rid of the lifeboats, and everyone else assures me no, it's gonna be great. Somebody's gonna say, I'm gonna cook dinner, the other one's gonna say I'm gonna go to the boiler room, some might play. Some might say look, I'm going to get anointed with my wife, we've got time. But the situation is very black, we don't have time for fun and games. We're running out of time, and if we don't make some decisive moves in terms of change in monetary policy, we're going to fail all the cups, and unfortunately, only then will we realize how far this whole situation has gone out of control. But there is one power in error, and that is until error is revealed, people believe in it. It's those famous... It's a saying, the world likes to be deceived. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as the world wanted to be deceived with Todorovic, your former employer, who everyone like that of the emperor's new rut, or, like the emperor, praised today all the media of Plenkovic and my sincere wish, Mr. Maric, that one day you will be a free man and that you will be able to say what you think, without fear of your existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57226	Thank you very much. The main thing is that they don't spray us and shake our chairs like they do in that movie theater. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will only finally thank you for this debate today, congratulating to all of you who have endured today after yesterday quite a long time. I believe you'll be waiting for that tomorrow, too. The debate in some way apostrophe of things that we've already discussed, and I've talked about it in the first place. So, on the one hand, we certainly have and recognize the positive trends of public finances both in terms of deficits and debt reduction, but there are also some elements that need to be addressed and that will certainly, in the years that follow, make them all better, whether we are talking about a health system, whether we are talking about the absorption of European funds or some third. But here's the end, once again, thanks for all the comments and suggestions and we'll see soon, of course, the draft budget for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57228	Thank you very much. With this we will conclude the debate on this point, we will not discuss today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading, since there are a large number of applications for discussion and this would go up late in the night and the topic is far too important for us to just put it on, so we will discuss it next week. We will see each other again tomorrow, we will continue at 9:30 and the point will be the proposal to raise the issue of trust to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then there will be a vote on all the points we have done so far, including that point that we will do tomorrow. Thank you very much and good night. Session interrupted at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-09-0.u57229	Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2017 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2017, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am giving the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes have 81 votes for, 36 abstentions and 19 against a half-yearly report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2017. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning The budget law of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make, now we have six decisions to vote individually. 1. The decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 81 for, 35 abstentions, 17 against decision-making. 2. The decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 81 for, 35 abstentions, 17 against decision-making. 3. The decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and bank recovery for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I also find that this decision has been taken by majority vote, 81 for, 35 abstentions and 17 against. 4. Decision on granting consent to the mid-term report on the implementation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund financial plan for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 82 for, 33 abstentions and 13 against this decision. 5. The decision to give consent to the mid-term report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Restructure and Sales Centre for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that with 81 votes for, 37 abstentions and 10 against, this decision has been made. Six. The decision to give consent to the mid-term report on the implementation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's financial plan for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that with 81 votes for, 31 abstentions, 20 against, so most of the votes were made and this decision. In accordance with Article 9(1), The fiscal liability law and Article 16(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. Regulations on the establishment and submission of a declaration of fiscal responsibility, Reports on the application of fiscal rules of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of: - Half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 81 for, 40 abstentions, 7 against the adoption of a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2017.
