ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56156	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am asking you to take a break on behalf of the NHR Club to talk about a censorship that has been spent for the past two weeks by Facebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56157	You got it. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56158	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I want to talk about the Franak case....../The Intruder President: Please, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like a break of 10 minutes to be more in fact, so that on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I can talk about the Franak case in Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56159	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56160	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56161	Thank you. A colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56162	Mr. President, I'm also asking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56163	Thank you. I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56164	Please pause on behalf of the HNS Club to discuss the energy and heat security of the city of Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56165	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Lukacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56166	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute HDZ Club regarding the employment of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56167	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't, we're taking a break by 10:00. It's 10 o'clock break, then we'll start the debate after the vote. Thank you. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] We'll start the debate after the break. The first is a respected colleague, Esih, on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56169	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs. I asked Stanko to warn me of a violation of the Law Constitution that has been going completely uninterrupted in Croatia for two weeks. So, during this period, the social network of Facebook, the unfavorables is performing censorship over a number of intellectuals, dignitaries, politicians, media, legal persons and other Croatian citizens. Because they express their position on irregularities and on the unfoundedness of the Hague verdict, which is also the stance of the Croatian government and parliament. Or they were just expressing their feelings and condolences for General Pralj's tragic death. However, I would like to point out here that this is not just about the automatic treatment of Facebook, but about premeditated, organised and systematic implementation of the action of the group from the Republic of Croatia, which cannot be reconciled to a different opinion, and use, no accidental errors in the Facebook system, and try to control and choke freedom of expression in the Republic of Croatia. The ominous and systematic reporting of certain posts resulted in Facebook being the same or deleted, or blocking profiles from the site. When the same informal groups introduced it, it was so-called. system failures are functioning, they started reporting all the insecure persons and publications that had nothing to do with the first case. But Facebook reacted the same way, after which many profiles and pages were completely and completely shut down. The snitches and the deniators, the same ones that have been crucifying Croatia for decades, directly contributed to The Hague and other verdicts and led General Praljko to drink the poison. They obviously want us back to the dark age of Yugoslavia, the age of censorship, the age of one-mindedness. And this is what I think is nothing more than a continuation of a special war that is being waged in Croatia over Croatia and unfortunately, from the time it was not created until today. It is absolutely unacceptable to conduct censorship in the 21st century of the Republic of Croatia in public and media space over anyone. I remind the Republic of Croatia, guaranteeing every citizen's freedom of opinion, expression of thought and freedom of speech and press, forbids censorship. Therefore, erasing the publication and blocking of citizens' profiles is an example of comprehensive censorship and a direct violation of the Croatian Constitution and the Law. I am also familiar with the fact that the very diameter of Plenkovic has been deleted on Facebook. One statesman, as he views himself, and if he wishes to behave, to himself and to the state and to the government on whose principle he is, must not allow such things to go by without warning, but I also stress sanctions. The mechanisms for that exist. On similar examples of Germany, the European Commission, we can clearly see that the executive authority that has authority can influence companies like Facebook with its decisions to comply with the law. Because both Facebook and Twitter and Google are private companies, which, while operating in Croatia, also need to respect Croatian laws, as other private companies do. So, trade chains, banks, media, teleopers, taxi services, etc. In 2015, the German government reached an agreement with Facebook, Twitter and Google that these internet platforms should implement German laws when they operate in Germany. And this year they've defined sanctions for their non-compliance. The European Commission also imposed a Google sentence this year on a private company based outside the EU because it did not comply with the EU Competition Law. Therefore, in the end, I appeal to the government of the diameter of Plenkovic, to ensure that social networks and internet platforms, respect Croatian laws and the Constitution that guarantees everyone freedom of expression and to end now a really very worrying censorship over Croatian citizens. I also ask the Parliamentary Committee on Information, Information and Media to hold a thematic session on this subject, censorship by Facebook. I believe that after 28 years, the time has finally come to mature and grow into a serious democratic society, to act in accordance with our own law and constitution. And what may be even more important is that uncompromisingly, we ask others in Croatia to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56170	Thank you. We are going to another debate, dear colleague Goran Alekic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAG Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56171	Thank you. Honored President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll say a few words about the case in Greece. So, we don't only have the Frank case, the Frank case has Greece, there's France, there's Slovenia, but in Greece it's similar to ours, because in Greece collective lawsuits against banks that contracted the Swiss franc currency clause have been launched. And before that, I'd just like to point out that my colleague Esich, before me, told me how banks operate according to the law. Banks in the Republic of Croatia, do not operate in accordance with the law. So that's not true, I have to deny it. It may be someone else's business, but banks do not operate in Croatia according to the law. As for Greece, three collective lawsuits were filed in Greece against three banks that negotiated the Swiss franc currency clause in Greece. It's banks, Alpha Bank, Euro Bank and the National Greek Bank. And I can be pleased to announce to the public and to the MPs, here in the Parliament, that three first-degree rulings have been made this year in these processes. And with all those three first-degree convictions, the bank has been found guilty, the debtors are right. The charges were also adopted reasons why the currency clause CHF was unfair, and this would be about the same. First of all, debtors do not have the special knowledge needed to negotiate such a currency clause as the Swiss franc. Credits with the Swiss franc currency clause are complex financial products. So it's not a simple loan, it's a complex financial product. Next thing you know, bank officials who have negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause with Greek debtors are not licensed for such a job. According to Greek laws, contracting such transactions that are such complex bank officials must have the necessary licenses, and bank officials in such cases did not have the necessary licenses. Finally, these judgments are determined that debtors were not alerted to the risks, to the consequences, of any situation relevant to the negotiation of such a currency clause. So, although it is about first-degree rulings, they encourage and show that Greece will also go in the direction of the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, too, the first-degree verdict was entirely on the consumer side. However, later we know that it happened that the High Court of Commerce abolished part of the ruling concerning the CCF currency clause and found that it would be somehow in order not to determine in fact the dishonesty of the CCF currency clause. The Supreme Court later confirmed that. However, on the basis of a constitutional suit, everything has been returned to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has returned it now to the High Court of Commerce and I expect the High Court of Commerce to reach a final verdict soon. However, there is also a possibility that the High Court of Commerce should return it to the first degree which would not be good. Unfortunately, the courts are working slowly, and this slowness of the courts allows the situation for debtors to wait long for justice, and the banks are strong, they are financially strong, they are strong institutions in financial terms and they can wait years and years for the processes to be completed. During that time, the debtors will be tired and many of them will not go to court when the verdict is finally in their favor, and it will certainly be powerful in their favour. I've spoken to several legal experts and judges whose names I'm not going to mention here, but they all feel that the Supreme Court should have ruled, but on the basis of the constitutional suit that was adopted and on the basis of the suspension of their audits that they initially brought. So, the opinion of these legal experts who are top-notch is that both judges and lawyers are such that the Supreme Court has made a mistake that it has not reached its own judgment but has returned everything to the High Court of Commerce, which I say is tiring consumers. Consumers are the cornerstone of the economy. Banks owe about 10 billion kuna on the basis of the illegal currency clause CHF to debtors who negotiated such currency and banks owe about 5 billion kuna to consumers who negotiated an illegal variable interest rate. So banks in total owe about 100 to 200 thousand loans in about 100 to 200,000 loans to the debtors of 15 billion kuna. 15 billion kuna, do you know what this means for the GDP of the Republic of Croatia? I don't think I have to tell you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56172	Thank you. Before we move to the third debate, I would like to welcome the gallery of members of the Croatian Brotherhood of the Bokele Navy, so please welcome them all together. Thank you. [[Applause.]] We're going to the third debate now. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56173	President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished members of the Croatian Brotherhood of the Bokele Navy. I don't usually read, but this time I really have to demonstrate that people are words and beings that can be settled in the continuity of what's good. Today we have in mind the biological organism of the present members of the Croatian Brotherhood of the Bokele Navy and in the light of their biology we have resistance to what follows them, which is an attempt to make what is worth living for, and these are the goals that someone sets to erase. The moment in which the members of the Croatian Brotherhood of the Bokele Navy came to the Croatian Parliament today is indeed dramatic. It's a moment where he tries to tear a man away from what's important, which is his spirituality and culture. A scandalous process has begun in Montenegro, which is the process of marking the car of St. Tripun, the Tripundan ceremony and the Croatian Brotherhood of the Boskelean Navy, to tear the Bokele Navy from exactly what belongs to it, which is the round of St. Tripun and Croatian tradition. Montenegro began with the process of including the Bokele Navy on UNESCO's list of immaterial heritage, but in a way to deny this Croatian beginning, the Croatian beginning and the essential Croatian identity of the Bokele Navy and the car of St. Tripun. This is for the Croatian Parliament, for Croatian culture, for universal culture and universal truth a dramatic moment over which we must not cross, and this is a dramatic moment that obliges all elected representatives of this Croatian Parliament to resist these attempts of discontinuity and to try to deny the beginning. In historical terms, it began in 809. Since 809, something Croatian, cultural, universal and worldly in Boca has started. Today, in 2017 and 2018, the danger of this Croatian disappearance continues to threaten us. If this Croatian goes away and it disappears culturally, it disappears universally, and the truth goes away. But every disappearance is a disappearance that takes place in front of witnesses. We Croatian representatives must not be witnesses that will lead to what is worth living for, that what makes living for which we can live in the continuity of human beings that have certain characteristics are the characteristics of culture, language, nation and these are the characteristics that we must overcome but not forget. In 2017, and what caused the gathering of members of the Croatian Federation of the Bokelj Navy in 809 is precisely an invitation and act and cry out not to let what is culturally available or some other intents for us truly irrelevant, to be squandered and to lose its identity and to cease to exist in the historical, cultural and national sense as it belongs to the Croats in Boka Kotarska. The Croats from Boka Kotorska and members of this brotherhood ask us to notice them, to see them as those who belong to us and to Montenegro and to the universal culture. [[Applause.]] Montenegro begins with the process of forgetting Croats in Boka Kotarska, forgetting culture and forgetting that universality. Will we as Croatian representatives, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament agree to this and be on the side of those who are silent, those who forget and those who lead humanity to the relic depend on the relationship to the immaterial heritage in Boka and Kotarska. Because of all this, I cannot be voted today because the obligation of all those voters who chose me know that I belong to those who fight for cultural, who do not rule out and who know what it is, which is why they are worth living for, and these are members of this brotherhood and I will spend time with them. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56174	Thank you. Just one piece of information. So we'll do it after we've finished the debate after a break of 15 minutes, I've been asked by the parliamentary services to take them another 15 minutes to repair one microphone that actually caused the collapse of the entire system. That's how the vote will be at 11 o'clock, so please plan to vote at 11 o'clock. We are continuing the discussions now, SDP's Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56175	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. We decided to use this probably last break this year to point out once again the failure of the health care system especially to the problems of the expensive medicines fund. One of the fundamental human rights is the right to health. In pre-election campaigns we all talked about that health in Croatia must be solid, comprehensive and accessible to all and that in Croatia in the years ahead, it was said in the campaign and in... There will be no increase in additional insurance prices or additional burdens for citizens, and thanks to better healthcare, we will all live on average for 5 years in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, none of this is happening. If there is a system that is currently not working in Croatia and will be increasingly difficult, it is a health care system. And this thanks to the indifference, unhappiness, and incompetence of the current minister who has not fulfilled any of his promises, and it is particularly tragic and sad how he treated his parents with diseased children who protested both in the Parliament and in front of the Assembly regarding the availability of medicines in a fund of expensive medicines. He promised both he and the prime minister and then the prime minister went to Europe and the minister was lost and the promise was not fulfilled. Not only this, in the plan for the implementation activities until the end of this year, the Health Protection Act was to be adopted, the Quality Act in the Health Protection System was to be adopted, the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Dependence Diseases was to be adopted, the rules on training and the traineeship of healthcare professionals should be adopted. So he didn't do anything. In particular, I would like to stress that both my colleague Strenja-Linić and I have offered solutions to ensure greater availability in the Fund of Expensive Medicines, unfortunately our proposal has been completely ignored and nothing is happening. My colleagues and colleagues, and according to the latest statistics, Croatian citizens live on average shorter than life in the EU. Fortunately, they live the longest in the Primorje-Gorski County, which is proof of the quality of health in the Primorje-Goran County, where the budget of local units stands out on average far more than in other environments. However, where the problem with the expensive medicine fund is and with general therapy in Croatia. So today we live much longer than 100 years ago. A few things contributed to that. First we lived 20 years longer thanks to only clean water, then we lived 20 years longer because the vaccines were in place and then we got 20 more years thanks to the drugs. And then the problem came along, life's age didn't extend, new diseases came along, people started living longer and somehow stopped that growth. However, new medicines are now arriving, and over the next 6 years, a whole range of new medicines will allow for longer and more quality lives. Unfortunately, in Croatia this will obviously not be possible because there will be no funds for a fund of expensive medicines. Why won't there be any funds? Well, because yesterday in the debate, we had two laws based on which health care will lose 300 million kuna in the following year. At the same time, healthcare will receive less, a billion and 200 million under the Public Protection Act and the basis of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act next year. And then again a year of health care and saying that the prime minister is good, here he gave health care a billion because health care is missing. And he didn't give him anything to health, but he gave him back what he took from him at the very beginning. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues under emergency, immediately at the beginning of the next session in the Assembly, we need to get a package of health laws to decide that Croatian citizens have available expensive medicines in the coming period but not expensive medicines as anyone wishes, but based on modern guidelines, treatment algorithms, multidisciplinary approaches, the implementation of disease registers, systematic measurement of clinical outcomes, the collection of evidence that everything in the Ministry of Health does not have. And we didn't accept our law that proposed that the quality and accreditation law in the health care system... My colleagues and colleagues, today in the world 3 million lives are saved thanks to vaccines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today AIDS has 160 new drugs that allow people to live completely normal. We have the latest research to give absolutely a new chance to all women suffering from breast cancer. Hepatitis C is treated with new medicinal products at a rate greater than 95% today. So, Mr. Kujundzic, start doing your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56176	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. We're going to the fifth debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, club of representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56177	Thank you, Mr. President. So we were looking for this break as well symbolically at the last session of this session and given some of the decisions that were preceded this week. The topic is certainly energy and heat security of the city of Osijek. I'll just remind you that on 4 January 2016, a tender for construction of a thermal power plant, a heat plant, a heat plant of 500 megawatts of electricity and 160 megawatts of heat energy was cancelled. And I respect my fellow citizens if they don't want a thermal power plant in Peru, but we in Osijek want it, we need it and we have to. Here is the question not only of electricity but of heat energy, because I'm going to remind you that currently three production blocks of which are two made back in '76. the years, they stand out and they will come out of use. And any further use represents one increased security of heat supply, half of the citizens of the city of Osijek. It's not just thermal energy, there's industrial steam, of course, and electricity. We're in Osijek, and I'm talking about this in the city council, there was no one in the county assembly who rebelled against this project, no one. We as citizens want and we need it because we want investments and I'll remind you, this investment of construction is over 2 billion kunas without VAT. and would represent one of the biggest investments in that region in the last 40 years. It can also be part of the project Slavonia and Baranja and Western Srijem. That investment would bring new jobs, possibly bring someone else back because new jobs would open. That investment to start all over today wouldn't be over for 4.5 years. And I said '76. The last two blocks were built. It's not one man's project, it's a project for all of us who live there. I'll remind you that in 2001 a local license was issued, then in 2004 for 400 megawatts, then again in 2006. etc., etc. So that's something that's been systematically and planned for the last 17 years. Why? Well, for security of supply, first of all, citizens of the city of Osijek, industry and then all of Croatia. We need 100,000 electric vehicles today, we don't have the power to power them. The energy security that would give us the gas thermopower plant, in five years, in 10 years, as things stand, may make it possible for us not to depend on external energy. And that is what must be the priority of these governments too because speaking of some physiology, so of course that heat is now invaluable, when liberalized in old power plants, it will produce additional losses and be even more cost and imposition of citizens. And I can't believe someone's gonna say it's not worth investing in heat and leaving half a fourth city in Croatia without heating. Put him at great risk. It is something we must not allow, and if there are those who object to the construction of a thermal power plant, we say okay, let us build our own because citizens of the city of Osijek and the regions deserve it, and they should have it, and it is investment in both the region and the city and the citizens themselves, and possibly, and above all, the economic benefits that are disproportionate for that region. So once again I draw attention to it becoming one of the priorities of both this government and all of us because it is once again not a project of any man or of me or of anyone else, it is a project of a whole region. And that's what we have to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56178	And last debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. My colleague Branko Hrg and I attended yesterday the opening of the Hedon Bar in Križevci. Choko Bar Hedona was opened by the president of the Republic of Croatia on her visit to Koprivnica-Kristevci County. The Hedon bar is where people with disabilities work. Just like at the factory, a small factory that makes chocolate. So people with disabilities have found their place on the labour market. Choco Bar Hedona as well as the factory will produce even more and will employ even more people with disabilities. With these candy on your tables, Hedona workers and a chocolate bar and especially disabled workers want to thank all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, in a symbolic way, for bringing the regulations that have been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which promote the employment of persons with disabilities and professional rehabilitation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to convey to you the most honest congratulations of employees, especially disabled workers in Hedona and Choco bar who want to congratulate you on these little sweets Merry Christmas and a successful New 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-15-0.u56180	I thank you on behalf of all MPs and representatives to my colleague Lukačić and the information and candy she passed on to us. Thank you very much. Now we stop working until 11.00 p.m., when we continue voting, so please be exact at 11.00 p.m., the vote begins. It's 10:30.
