ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38860	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break. Tourist taxes are the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38861	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38862	Dear President of the Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia to inform the public about yesterday's public that for the first time in foreign trade with Croatia, Serbia has achieved a surplus that speaks of the disaster of our economic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38863	And on behalf of the Bridge, colleague Lesandric-Ninčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38864	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club regarding yesterday's knowledge of HBOR's credit or the responsibility of Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38865	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38866	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break on Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38867	Thank you very much. It's till 9.45. It's 9:00.35. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first one speaks on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38869	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The reason why we of the SDP Representatives Club asked for a break this morning is the question of residence tax. As we know and I think it may be unnecessary to talk about it again, tourism is absolutely the most important economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. At the end of last year, at the beginning of this year, this country carried out a single attack on tourism by increasing the amount of value added tax paid on catering services. Today it appears another attack on tourism activity is being announced, which is with the planned increase in the tourist tax. As we had the opportunity to see from the regulation which is in the public debate and analyze in some situations, the tax on residence is increased more than 5 times. For example, there is an increase of 550% in certain segments of the vessel’s charter. Furthermore, if we look at the tourist tax paid at night in that A class, it means in that section that refers to our most exclusive tourist resorts, the day-to-day tax increases by 14%. Which is the explanation the state gave for it. Because it is necessary to invest new additional funds in tourism promotion and because the tourist tax did not grow for years. At first glance, he commends a valuable initiative. However, when we look at the figures, we see that this statement, or claim, does not hold water. And why is that? Because the amount of the residence tax was calculated and charged from 2015 to 2016 increased by 20 million kuna. Do you know what the amounts are about when we speak in the Republic of Croatia about residence tax. In 2016, the residence tax at the level of the Republic of Croatia is calculated in the amount of 406 million kuna, 406 million kuna. Just a year earlier 20 million kunas less. So 20 million kuna increases from 2015 to 2016. Why? Because of the growth in tourism. And look at the wonders, in 2017, this tourism is growing even more. We have a larger number of accommodation facilities in the household, which automatically means a larger number of flat-rate payers, we have a larger number of accommodation units where the tourist tax is paid per night. We've got an increase in nighttime, 30%. And what are we doing? We are increasing the tourist tax and we are doing additional imposing on those who operate in tourism, at the moment when HTZ and all other tourist communities in its composition will already have an increase in revenue that will amount to more than 20 million kuna in total. Instead of talking about how to rationalize HTZ's business, instead of talking about how we're going to use it better, I'm going to repeat another 406 million kunas invoiced in 2016, instead of talking about it, what's our answer? We'll raise the residence fee. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives Club is asking that this provision, i.e. this proposal for a regulation, be reconsidered once more and that, before increasing the price of the tourist tax before another blow on Croatian tourism, consider whether the objectives that are planned and announced and against which no one can achieve anything else without raising another charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38870	Thank you. Second debate of distinguished colleagues Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38871	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. Here I asked for a break to warn yesterday, so I explained the news published yesterday that for the first time since Croatia's independence, Serbia has recorded a surplus in foreign trade compared to Croatia. There was a late debate yesterday, until late hours about the public defender for children but there is no discussion about Croatia's economic problems for these, let's say for days, let alone nights. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what does this fact say, this fact that for the first time in foreign trade with Croatia has achieved a surplus? So this is about the failure and failure of Croatia's overall economic policy, especially those of foreign trade. What does that mean? What's the reason for that? Is that what you're worried about? Does it worry all of us? We should be worried about that. Of course, every country is trying to do everything to raise and help the competitiveness of its producers and its companies and it is perfectly natural and everyone can do it. This measures the success or failure of some economic policy. So here's what, what was the situation at the end of 2016? Serbian exports to Croatia in 2016 were 467m euros and grew 17% last year, 17% compared to 2015. At the same time, imports from Croatia to Serbia decreased 6.1%, amounting to 436m euros. So a surplus of about 30m euros has been achieved, but a surplus has been achieved. Now questions are being asked here, of course, different causes of such an expansion of Serbian exports, but I would point out one of the most important, perhaps most important, and it will probably shock you and make you think again about the failure of the CNB's monetary and exchange rate policy. Do I have an argument for that? I do. What was the exchange rate ten years ago between the Croatian kuna and the Serbian dinar? One kuna was equal to ten Serbian dinars. What class is this today, gentlemen? One kuna equals sixteen Serbian dinars. So in ten, Serbia, or its central bank, weakened the Serbian dinar 60%. 60%, I repeat. So is it strange to anyone that this one frozen policy of the Croatian Kuna course, this one hostile exchange policy for Croatian exporters, had to bring Croatian exports and exporters to their knees? You follow well and remember that for 15 years I've been talking about it, warning the public, in scientific papers. Our exporters are afraid, afraid. They were happy to hear me speak openly in their favor because they were afraid of politicians saying so. But there's one white-haired tower that no one's touched yet, it's the CNB. And she'll break everything if she has to, total export and say that this is all stable and we'll, if we have to, forgive everybody. Forgive my unacademic expressions because I see that I have to use them to strengthen the impression of what I'm saying because this is simply not being heard. So where is this efficiency of this monetary exchange rate policy? She breaks her legs to Croatian exporters. That's not how you gentlemen do it. I repeat, in the past 10 years, Serbia has lost 60% of its currency, wisely. I was saying that in these 10 years, the CNB has only one, one and a half percent weakened the kuna, which is not noticed during the year, we would undo that effect and our exports, we would give the wind back to our exporters. So, I repeat, why do I keep talking about this? We won't move, everything we do, positive in production and technology, if others do this kind of competitive pressure, so they take measures, and we don't, then our policy won't succeed and it will cancel out the monetary rates, politics will undo all other efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38872	Thank you. The third debate was attended by Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38873	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, today is our agenda point on the Agrokor Investigation Commission, which would most likely come in turn, or it will be around 9:00 tonight, away from the eyes of the public and I would say from the eyes of the MPs. It's very interesting how important things try to make themselves irrelevant. Just a few months ago, we had here in this high house a debate about the confidence of Minister Maric, whom we all know, he didn't win. We all know that 75 hands were for, 75 against, so most of this tall House's trust, the minister didn't win. Despite that fact, he continues to exercise his duty. Since we did not receive any of the requested answers during the debate at the time, and we have reasonedly expressed all our views on the impeachment of Minister Maric, and unlike our colleagues from the HNS, we continue to hold our opinions and we will not change him because we have created him on the basis of the facts which point to numerous benefits of Agrokor. Only then is we actually left with the real formation of an investigative commission that will explore the complete process of the formation of Agrokor, as well as attempts to keep Agrokor out of the public eye. This attempt has failed, and all the problems of Agrokor that have been covered up for years have gone public. The problems essentially went to this extent that the government should have responded by voting the Systemic Important Companies Act. Let's go back to HBOR's credit to Agrokor, the current topic these days because still these companies that got Agrokor's credit are part of the Agrokor concert. Despite my numerous remarks and criticisms in the way credits are granted, and the warning that we should not be given credit in a company that we haven't checked out in detail, you know what happened to us? That's exactly what I'm We've had this whole thing going on around Agrokor, not half a year after the loan was granted. So we're all wondering how. How is it possible that a company that was stable and without having one problem, as the minister himself said at the time, as today's extraordinary Commissioner Ante Ramljak denied and said that already in mid-2016 everyone in business knew that Agrokor was falling apart. But then, this stable company suddenly, after six months, came into a situation where the state needed to react by emergency procedure. Who's to blame? And will someone answer? The minister, interestingly, took the day out of the vote on the loan of the company belonging to the Agrokora concert, because he worked in the company but at the same time at the same session he was exempt from voting with, in fact, in line with all members of the Supervisory Board on all issues related to Agrokor and his exposure actually affected their positive decision on the loan. Yesterday, the media responded for the first time to the statement by my colleagues Slaven even though I presented it in my presentation a few months ago. So, if members of the Supervisory Board whose profession this is not, and who are not understood in detail in the financial reports and who received the documentation two days before, so especially for those whose profession is not, it is simply impossible to examine it all in two days, but at the same session they asked the President of the Supervisory Board and Minister Marić exactly the questions which, or unfortunately, are which actually made the decision on this loan. This isn't the only thing that's at the expense of our country and the state budget. We're wondering if the Accounting Act was passed with the intention of protecting Agrokor? Is the amendment of the Rules on Statistical Reports or the extension of the deadlines for outstanding outstanding claims that are thus hidden from the public, but even worse, the prevented reaction of the competent institutions. Is that also because of Agrokor? In the whole situation where we're in and about Agrokor, which we're all seeing, it's just too coincidence that this is the very law that didn't please Agrokor. Is the amendment to the factoring law that... You extend the extended deadline for synchronising legal entities to an additional period and thus enable legal entities not only more time to adapt but also more time to not show the real situation to the public as well as the reaction of the competent authorities again? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This amendment to the law, or extension of the deadline, has allowed Agrokor additional time in which they do not have to meet certain conditions, including a very important risk management plan, and mandatory control of HANFA. It was these changes that culminated in the urgent need of the emergency adoption of the Emergency Administration Act. These are all changes that go in favor of Agrokor. These are all changes that we simply cannot believe were a coincidence as well as a coincidence of Minister Maric's move. All of this very clearly indicates that the minister simply cannot act as Minister of Finance. But actually what's most worrying, which is the fact that the Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic is still defending this. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38874	We move on to the fourth debate, dear colleague Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38875	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Every morning we start with different breaks. As far as Agrokor is concerned, we completed a number of mornings with a debate on Agrokor. And I can agree with Mrs Ninčević-Lesandric how certain important topics come and afternoon for discussion, but we have to ask ourselves why. If individual opposition clubs spend all day in breaks of three, two, three, four hours, then clearly since the morning lasts four hours a morning then we are forced to discuss these reasons only after noon. If we did not have three, four, five breaks of individual clubs and more than three, four times a day during the day, then the work of the Parliament would probably be more up-to-date and important points, although for me everything is equally important would come in order during the morning when it was monitored by citizens more carefully and better work of the Croatian Parliament. This way, we can only weep over our own destiny for not allowing the Parliament to do what the president did, and what has not been the usual in time for it to deliver a plan of debate and vote. But let's go back to Agrokora. Agrokor will be on the agenda today, and then, if there's a break, it'll be really tonight. We planned it as soon as the pension funds point was completed, to discuss the Agrekor investigation committee. So, he's going to come up quickly, so I don't see the need for this break requested by the MOST club because today he's going to have so many opportunities to discuss it that it wasn't necessary. But here, if we've already asked for a break, then we'll continue in that sense. So, about the loan HBOR approved by Agrodor we already discussed in this assembly I mean 50 hours, about 50 hours. And in what a respected colleague is now on behalf of the MOST club and what was said yesterday, I heard nothing new that I didn't know two months ago when the opposition proposal and the MOST collapsed to bring down Minister Maric. So it is not true that Minister Maric did not get support, but those who sought his support did not get the votes needed to vote against Minister Maric. As regards the charges on why the HBOR loan was granted to Agrokor, this question should first and foremost be asked to all members of the Supervisory Board and those who were present there and to those who were not present. I'm not gonna say it's degutant, but in any case it's unacceptable for serious people. On the other hand, the former minister and member of the Supervisory Board today has an ex-wise mind and argues that he has accepted the proposal from the credit board and the HBOR professional services to grant credit to Agrokor and that this is the result of what Minister Maric has persuaded him to do to me is absolutely unacceptable. Every member of the Supervisory Board has its integrity, has its own head. If he estimated that the loan had been questioned, that someone was pressured by professional services, that someone was pressured by the credit committee, that someone was pressured by the Supervisory Board, then he should have put his opinion immediately on the Supervisory Board if he did not pass by to warn the prime minister, alert the public, alarm the Croatian Parliament. And not today seven months after the time since the loan was granted, today to claim that he did it because someone put him up to it. Serious people would be ashamed to say it, and they would hide their shame, and they wouldn't say how he raised his hand because someone talked him into it, and so did the minister. That's what the minister says. So that doesn't say, the former minister or person who was a minister at the time. Therefore, we are interested in the HDZ conducting a full investigation. We have knowledge of this and today, when it comes to this, we will have the State's Attorney's office do reconnaissances and insist that everyone's responsibility be determined, including all members of the Supervisory Board, if that loan was disputed. So we're going to talk about it a little bit more today when there's a agenda point. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u38876	Let's not throw it away. Please, fellow Bull, it's still early. Let's save our energy for later, so we can spend at least one part of the day in order and discipline. We now move to the agenda point - The report on the work of compulsory pension funds (a) The report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds for 2016 Carrier: Erste d.o.o. Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Fund b) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by PBZ Croatia Insurance d.d. For the management of mandatory pension funds for 2016 Carrier: PBZ Croatia Insurance d.d. for the management of compulsory pension funds (c) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. for 2016 Carrier: Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. d) Report on the work of AZ compulsory pension funds for 2016 Carrier: Allianz ZB d.o.o. The Management Company of the Mandatory Pension Fund of the Reports was submitted on the basis of Article 150. Mandatory pension fund law. We'll conduct a joint discussion on these reports. You took the materials into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You also received reports at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Now I'm going to ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. They have 30 minutes for that. There'll be four representatives. We will begin with Mr. Petar Vlaic, president of the ERSTE d.o.o. who's the first to perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45263	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I am honored to be able to present to the Croatian Parliament the business of Erste Blue Pension Funds for 2016. In 2016, compared to 2015, the number of members of Ersta Blue Mandatory Pension Funds increased to 5% to 287 747 members. Of these, 3000 members were members of the C Fund, 795 members were members of Fund A, while all other members were members of the largest fund, Fund B, a moderate risk fund. Market share of funds managed by ERSTE d.o.o. was 16.13% at the end of last year, as measured by the number of members. In Erste Blue Pension Funds, 756 million kuna contributions were paid in last year, most of which were paid in the B fund. Total assets in all 3 compulsory pension funds amounted to 11 billion and 400 million kuna, at the end of last year, representing a 15.42% increase compared to 2015. The bulk of the waste on the category B fund, i.e. 11 billion and 7 million kuna. As a result, what is most important is what we are doing, which is our real task, and by the contributions in 2016 was the best fund A, which achieved an enviable contribution of 13.83%. Fund C made an 8.53% contribution, while Fund B made an 8.08% contribution. All funds have been made above the average contribution for funds of such type and in Croatia as well as in Europe. Fund B is a follow-up to the single Erste Blue Pension Fund, which was established in 2002, by the end of last year, achieved an average analysis of the contribution of 6.21%, i.e. in real 4.15% annually. Now I'm going to touch the investment goals a little bit, the structure of the investment of certain funds. Fund A is intended for members who are young, who are more than 10 years old until retirement, and who have a higher risk tendency, and therefore expect greater contributions. The funds of Fund A were most invested in Croatian securities, observed, by classes are the most represented bonds of the Republic of Croatia, and then shares of Zagreb banka, Podravka, Plave lagoons, Adria and Luka Rijeka. Fund B, a balanced fund, which is 97.5 percent of the assets today. They have a moderate risk tendency and this fund is highly binding, totalling 69.01% of government bonds at the end of last year, of which 66% were Croatian government bonds. The fund's assets are the most represented bonds of the Republic of Croatia, as I have already said, followed by 15% of Croatian shares, which we think is quite a large share, foreign shares of 6.35% and foreign investment funds of 5.07%. These funds are mostly stock funds. The Fund C shall be filled in automatically by members of category B who are less than 5 years old until retirement, and shall be members of the Fund who have a minimum risk tendency. This fund must not invest in equity, and its currency structure must always be consistent with the obligations, or 90% of the assets must be invested in the Croatian kuna. The risk dispersion is minimal. Now, in the end, you would have touched the most significant investments. During 2016, Erste's blue pension funds continued to invest actively in the Croatian capital market, participated in the capitalisation of companies, participated in auctions organised by CERP, participated in, since the entry of new editions of Croatian held bonds. In July 2016, the Republic of Croatia issued a Kunska bond of maturity in 2021 with a total amount of 6 billion kuna and funds under the management of ERSTE d.o.o. They wrote all 250 million kunas in total. Also in March 2016, issue of the 2026 bond, the total issue is 10 billion kuna, our funds totalled 520 million kunas of these bonds. This Regulation shall enter into force on The CERP reorganised the auction of Končar Electric Industry and Erste Blue Pension Funds totalled 120000 shares and increased together with some additional purchased in the stock market share in Končar to 14.33%. At that point, it is the largest individual share in keeping a percentage to a particular company. Also in May are funds under the administrative ERSTE d.o.o. at the auction of shares of the Croatian hotel tourist company Korčula, acquired 150000 shares and increased their stake in the company to 9.01% The funds also actively traded with many other shares on the stock market. What is likely for the Croatian public representatives at this time are very current investments in Agrokor. Our funds at the end of last year had investments in Agrokor and shares based in the Republic of Croatia, shares of companies that provided guarantees for the Agrokor concert. There we had investments in Ledo and in Jamnica with a fund and 97.5% of the assets together investment in Ledo and Jamnica amounted to 1.11% of portfolios, which we think is a relatively small amount. In 2017, we sold all those shares. At this point we do not have exposure to Agrokor, as regards Croatian shares and Croatian companies and we have realised since the beginning of the holding including dividend profits little, but... profit, if we add up the bonds of Agrokor we held, but in 2016 we did not have them anymore, we sold them earlier, this profit is significant all the more expensive is 31 million kuna from holding shares and bonds of Agrokor. So at this point we're not exposed to Agrokor and Croatian companies. Also this year, it's not the subject of the report, but in this year we entered the property of the Sun Concert, or the Bluesun Hotel chain, where we became 16% owners, by buying shares from the Greek Investment Fund. And finally, which is the same subject, a brief overview of the pension society's business. Total revenues amounted to HRK 63.6 million, expenditures of HRK 38.6 million, net profits amounted to HRK 19.7 million. It was lower than in 2015 because we significantly increased the costs associated with the introduction of new application solutions to monitor the risk measurement and raise safety and increased the access to information services. And I think we're in terms of both technology and market surveillance, and I think we're a very highly sophisticated pension fund management company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45264	Thank you. The second is Ms. Renata Kašnar Putar, member of the PBZ Croatia Insurance Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45265	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. PBZ Croatia Insurance The Mandatory Pension Funds Management Company has been operating since 2001. The founders of the company are the Privredna banka Zagreb and Croatia insurance which are significant participants in domestic banking and insurance markets, each with a 50% share in the core capital amounting to 56 million kuna. All three companies' management funds also made very good contributions in 2016 for their members, and the company continued to work continuously to improve organisational requirements regarding the management of members' assets and with a particular emphasis on risk management. On 31 December 2006, we have 25 employees employed, and for every ten thousand members, more than 50,000 members of the pension fund categories managed by the company are obliged to pay an additional million kuna in the guarantee deposit account. At the end of 2016, the company has 36.6 million kuna deposited in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds in the vault records of the Republic of Croatia. The authorised auditor of the company for business 2016 was... Croatia, and the trust services are carried out by Adico Bank. The company’s income from the management of the funds amounted to HRK 60 million, and with the other revenues of the company that were generated by the investment of its own resources, the total income of the company amounted to HRK 63.5 million. The expenditure on fund management amounted to 15 million kunas of which compensation to the agency amounted to 4 million kuna, and the fee to REGOS 9.8 million kuna and the net profit of the company amounted to 4.9 million kuna. The company manages three different categories of funds that differ according to the legal age limits of members, investment policy, strategy and investment limits. In 2016, we made good contributions to our members, so category A's fund made 13.82%, category B's fund made an 8.52% contribution, and category C's contribution was 7.55%. The number of members at the end of the year was in category A 918 members, category B 320,717 members and category C 3,801 members. In total, at the end of the year we had 325,436 members in all funds, which is the increase compared to the last day of last year of 13,845 members and market share in the total compulsory pension fund membership of 18.24%. Fund A in 2016, as I stated, has reached a 13.82% contribution, and since the beginning of the work, the anualized yield has been 12.07%. The net assets amounted to €67.3 million, total payments in a year amounted to $5.6 million, and the basis of the closure of our members' accounts paid €971,000. This all means that the category fund and its members earned 8 million kuna in 2016. The Fund took part in the issue of corporate bonds of the issuers of Zagreb Holding, while the share of corporate bonds at the end of the year was 6.37% of the assets of the fund. The Fund also participated in the issue of government bonds and on significant recapitalisations in which the Fund was involved should certainly mention the recapitalisation of the company HTP Korčula with a total of 1.72 million kuna. On the secondary market, domestic stock exposure increased from 17.91% at the end of 2015 to as much as 29.9% at the end of 2016. The fund was also active on foreign stock markets. The Fund B, which is also the largest fund that we manage and is the successor of the single fund before the changes in the law in 2016, made an 8.52% contribution and the anularised contribution since the beginning of work is 5.47%. The net assets at the end of the year were €13.4 billion of total deposits in the category B fund amounted to €914 million and were paid through the closure of the account of €182.3 million. The Fund earned its members a billion and 42 million kuna in 2016. The largest share of assets was 64.39% invested and invested in government bonds and 25.12% invested in shares. On the market of corporate bonds, the category B fund participated in the issue of corporate bonds by the Atlantic Group and Zagreb Holding and acquired corporate bonds from HEP issuers on the secondary market. The share of corporate bonds during 2016 increased from 1.90 to 2.65% of the fund's assets. The category B fund took part in both issues of government bonds with 900 million kuna and of the significant recapitalisations should also be mentioned in HTP Korčula and the purchase of shares of the Concar of the electricity industry sold by the state by 20% of its ownership. On the secondary market, domestic stock exposure increased from 13.29% to 14.6% at the end of 2016. Fund C made a 7.55% contribution in 2016 and since the beginning of the work, the annualised yield is 7.27%. Net assets amounted to 454 million kunas. Total payments in the year were 146 million kuna and 53.3 million kuna was paid through the closure of members' accounts. He earned his members the fund in 2016 28.9 million kuna. The Fund took part in the corporate bond market and in the edition of Zagreb Holding and HEP 2016 ended with 7.4% of the share of corporate bonds. Participation in the debt market, here we participated in the issue of government bonds and, in view of the cumulatively all three funds managed by the company were kuna 13.8 billion, which was an increase in 2016 by 1.9 billion kuna due to the payment of contributions as well as the contributions made to our members. During the year, a total of $1.08 billion was earned for all our members and the market share of PBZ-controlled funds in Croatia was 16.19%. The investment of fund assets under the management of companies aims to achieve a growth of investments, particularly taking into account the security of the assets of our members. As regards the current issue of participation in Agrokor in 2016, the company had shares of Ledo and Jamnica during the beginning of 2017, part of this property was sold, the company had no bonds because since 2013 we have not acquired new shares or invested in corporate bonds of Agrokor. So at this point in time 27.6., we had 0.11% of the portfolio in the shares of Leda and generally, since the start of the investment, so from the recapitalisation of Leda, the company has achieved, i.e. the funds made a good profit on these shares or bonds that we had previously in the portfolio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45266	Thank you. Third debate, distinguished Christian Buk, chairman of AZ's mandatory pension fund management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45267	President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It is my pleasure to present to you the results of AZ's mandatory pension funds for 2016. In 2016, it was one of the successful years for members of the AZ pension funds as a result of a consistent investment policy that puts prudence and caution first and a reduction in investment risk. The largest individual investment concerned the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, mostly long-term maturity. In the share area of the portfolio, the most significant positions for domestic tourism companies concern healthcare and food industry issuers. The AZ pension funds in 2016 participated in the privatisation of the Ilirija Ilirija Tourist Company Ilirija, Biograd na Mora, increased their stakes in several joint companies in the Republic of Croatia as Arena tourist, Atlantic group, Liburnia Riviera hotels, Končar group etc. In the follow-up on the results of our three funds. Our largest AZ compulsory B pension fund in 2016 had 618 thousand members, and made a contribution of 5.74% and 700 million kuna, respectively. By making a donation, I'm sorry, it's been a transfer since the beginning, in 2016 it was a 6% contribution. Assets to the mandatory pension fund amounted to 31.7 billion kuna, 70% of which were invested in government bonds, and investments in shares amounted to 20% of the assets of the total assets of the fund. As for the mandatory pension funds A and C, the pension fund A category made a 12.6% contribution and earned 26 million kuna for its members. We had 2200 members, or market share in the number of members over 47%. The assets were invested 45% in government bonds, and the equity securities or shares accounted for 49% of the total assets of the fund. The Mandatory Retirement Fund category C earned an axis of 7.33% and earned its members 73 million kuna, given its role as the Mandatory Pension Fund C, 90% of the assets of the 1.2 billion kuna fund were invested in the state bonds of the Republic of Croatia. As far as society is concerned, just for a little while. Total capital of 90 million kuna, guarantee deposit at the end of 2016, 79 million kuna, total income of 143 million kuna, and net profit of 71 million kuna at the end of 2016. As regards the investment in Agrokor as my colleagues stated, at the end of 2016, in Fund B we had just over 1.3% of the investment, in Fund A 0.49, in Fund A we sold out in 2017 we have a zero, in Fund B we have more investment in the shares of Leda, which we have currently reduced to zero for conservative reasons. Here, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45268	Thank you, too. And finally Mr. Damir Grbavac, President of the Raiffeisen Pension Fund Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45269	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the House of High Representatives, I submit this report on behalf of the Raiffeisen Society for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. Our society manages 10 pension funds, one of which is open and voluntary, 6 voluntary closed and 3 compulsory pension funds that are actually the subject of this report according to the law. Our company has a capital of 143 million kuna, in a guarantee deposit at the moment there are 67 million kuna, the company had 44 employees in compulsory pension funds at the end of the year managed, or now manages, but the situation at the end of last year was 26 billion kuna. So our society manages 26 billion kunas in compulsory pension funds, among them is the largest category B fund since there has been no more significant movement and decision-making of members about changes in the compulsory pension fund, and the mandatory B pension fund in the beginning is the only one, and today is the pension fund that all those who make their own decision on the selection of the pension fund category. However, with the data I would start with the pension fund category A which is intended for our younger members, as far as the investment structure is concerned, the most relatively high compared to other funds, shares and investments related to shares, means investment in stock funds of 35% and the vast majority of the rest is invested primarily in Croatian government bonds. The fund is because of what I already said and has a relatively small number of members, so 1432 members, at the end of the year it had a property of 129 million kuna. In 2016, the contribution of this fund was 8.19%, i.e. it was real 7.97% and total earnings for members were close to 10 million kuna and since the beginning of work, it was relatively short history which began in August 2014. So since the beginning of work, the average yield is 9.47% and actually 9.85%. Our largest pension fund, in each society, is so, so category B fund. In its investment structure, it had nearly 20% invested in shares and related investments, meaning stock funds and a large majority of the rest in Croatian government bonds. The size of the fund is also reflected by the number of members and property. So his assets amounted to about 24 and a half billion kuna and there were 532 thousand members in the fund at the end of the year. The contribution that was made in 2016 is 7.31%, and since the beginning of work, this is about a significant longer period and a longer history, and it has a much greater meaning. So the yield was over 6%, 6.03%, while the actual yield was close to 4%, 3.97%. The category C fund is growing slightly faster than the category A fund because members who are five years ahead of retirement actually pass by law to this category C fund, so that's why I'm a member of that fund. So the funds of this fund are practically entirely except for something that's in cash funds or money. The entire assets in this fund were practically invested in Croatian government bonds. At the end of the year, the fund had 8100 members. His property was over a billion kuna. The contribution that was made in 2016 is 7.25% realistically the same over 7%, and since the beginning of work, since 2014 the contribution of the fund has been an average of 8.58% or a real 8.95% because of our deflation. In the original report, it means not in this shortened, but in the original report there are more detailed data on investment limits, on the geographical structure of investment in currency activities and the like, a risk indicator. However, I think this would be an exaggeration, too. Just one moment. So because of the public's interest in the assumed interest and respected parliamentary representatives, they can also say something about the investments and results of the investment in Agrokor Group's securities. Our category B fund currently has some over 18,000 shares of Ledo as a member of the Agrokor Group and it is currently the only exposure and is 0.2% of the assets of this fund. We started investing in the Agrokor Group's securities first and foremost in 2004 on the basis of our analyses and on the basis of the assessment of independent rating institutions. And in time, in 2014 it also started to reduce this exposure, so as I said the total exposure to all of Agrokor's securities at this point is 0.2%. And the result of the investment, the total investment in the Agrokor Group's securities today, is earnings on the Agrokor 270 million kuna Group's securities, of which 208 million kuna is realised. So something that no one can take from our funds, or our members, and the smallest possible, means 208 million kuna, is realised and according to the current state, the total profit is 270 million kuna. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45270	Thank you. We also have one replica, dear colleague Glasnović, to be presented to Mr. Grbavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45271	Dear colleagues, like this. Your exposure is interesting, but I don't know about the average man we have here as many financial experts. You were talking about these government bonds, shares, etc. I think the average Croat when he hears this he's still suffering from some post-communist confusion. He doesn't understand all this. My brief question. Can anyone answer me in the medium term, say, for 10 years, what will be the status of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia? We have a population that's getting older, there'll be fewer jobs in production. We are entering the fourth generation of the industrial revolution. In ten years in a country the size of Los Angeles where 1.1 man works, one in retirement is what the future is. Outside, you have simple laws, simple rules of play. You have a retirement pension after 65 years. If you want to take that pension, you also have as much money as you do. Some work until the 1980s, and a full-time job in Canada is 35 years old. What this country will look like where 50% of people are employed in state-owned companies, where no new values are created. How's that gonna work? Can you shed some light on this current situation for me and where will we be in 10 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45272	Okay. Thank you, colleagues. My colleagues, thank you very much. Would the rapporteurs please take their word for it? If not, then I would ask Prime Minister Majda Buric's State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System to give the government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45273	Thank you, Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, respected representatives of mandatory pension funds. Report on the work of mandatory pension funds in 2016. In accordance with Article 150. The law on compulsory pension funds is required for the pension society to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly once a year on the work of pension funds it manages. The peace reform began from 1 January 2002 with capitalised pension systems. The system was originally regulated by the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies and pensions paid on the basis of individual capitalised savings, starting on 1 January 2014, adopted new legislative frameworks relating to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies. The new legislative framework in view of the age of the insurance undertaking and the risk exposure to compulsory pension funds also introduced 3 new categories of pension funds, etc. The portfolio port A, B and C and today in the Republic of Croatia are operated by 4 companies for the management of mandatory pension funds AZ, ERSTE Blue, PBZ Croatia Insurance and Raiffeisen. The number of personal accounts, members of compulsory pension funds in port portfolios at the end of 2016, was one million 784 thousand and 169 members, and of which there were 5369 members in port portfolio A, in port portfolio B there were one million 755 thousand 823 members, and in C there were 22 thousand 979 members. While at the end of 2015 there were a million 731 thousand 181 members, of which there were 5 million and 94 members, in port portfolio B there were a million 707 thousand 104 members, and in port portfolio C there were 18 thousand 983 members. The growth in the number of members of compulsory pension funds was continued in 2016 as well as low awareness of members of compulsory pension funds on the independent selection of the mandatory pension fund. The total net assets of compulsory pension funds on 31 December 2016 amounted to HRK 84.18 billion and increased by 10.18 billion compared to the previous year, up from 13.75% per year. Of the total net assets of compulsory pension funds, only 0,60%, i.e. 506 million kuna makes up asset category A, 3.62%, i.e. 3.05 billion kuna is the property of C funds, while the largest part is 95.78% respectively. 80.62 billion kuna assets of category B. Property in the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds continued to grow in 2016, partly due to continued payment of contributions, and partly due to the average contributions made to the funds. On the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds, during 2016, 5.34 billion kunas of net payments, compulsory pension contributions were made, and increased by 3.46% compared to the previous year, when 5.16 billion kunas were made net payment of compulsory pension contributions. The contribution to the mandatory pension funds in 2016 for category A amounted to 11.85% for category B and for category C 7.4% for category C, while the contribution in 2015 for category A was 9.1%) for category B 6.2% and for category 6.8% for category 6.8%. In 2016, the highest yields were made by the mandatory pension funds of category A which were also the most risky, while the lowest yields were made by mandatory pension funds of moderate risk, i.e. category B. On 31 December 2016, the investment structure of compulsory pension funds, the majority of the contributions made by long-term debt securities, which primarily refers to investments in domestic government bonds, 71.11%, respectively, was observed by the amount of investment in the total assets of compulsory pension funds, referred to domestic and foreign shares, and 19.5%, of which were dominated by investments from issuers from the Republic of Croatia and 12.26% respectively. In 2015, the percentage of investment in domestic government bonds was 72.7%, while the amount of investment relating to domestic and foreign shares was 19%, most of which were domestic shares and 10.46% respectively. The companies for the management of compulsory pension funds in 2016 made total revenues of 411 million kuna. The majority of the revenues, of 396 million kuna, were made from pension fund management revenue and relate to the compensation of the total assets of the fund of 351 million kuna and the compensation of the contributions paid in the amount of 45 million kuna. In 2015, total revenues amounted to HRK 408 million, and revenues from fund management amounted to HRK 386 million. From this, the compensation of the total assets of the fund amounts to 345 million kuna and to the compensation of the contributions paid to Kun 41 million. The share of the total assets in the company's total income for the management of compulsory pension funds for 2016 and 2015 is approximately 85%. In 2016, the pension fund management fee amounted to 0.419% annually from the base, i.e. from the total assets of the fund reduced to investment commitments and was lower by 7% compared to 2015, when it was 0.45% per year from the base. The total expenditure of the company, for the management of compulsory pension funds in 2016, amounted to 182 million kuna, and of which 54 million kuna were paid to the central insurance register, and 25 million kuna to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. All 4 companies for the management of compulsory pension funds recorded a net profit of 183 million kuna in 2016, which for 10 million kuna is lower net profit compared to 2015. In accordance with all of the above, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of mandatory pension funds in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45274	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected colleague of Orepic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45275	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mrs. Buric, gentlemen from mandatory pension funds. I'll just ask one simple question. During 2016, but let the percentages be released if the percentages do not know how much they speak or what they say, how much money has gone to Agrokor or to the securities investment in Agrokor? ... Zero kuna, I didn't hear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Nothing. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45276	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45277	If you have listened carefully to the presentations of the representatives of mandatory pension funds, indeed each of them has provided precise information regarding the question you have asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45278	Thank you. Another replica, dear colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45279	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected fund representatives, mandatory funds and HZMO. In 2002, a review of the pension system was made on three pillars, first, second, third. The first level is investment from gross wages 15% and it is based on intergenerational solidarity. In the second pillar is the withdrawal from gross wages 5% and the third pillar is voluntary which is not mandatory and is attractive for people over 45 years of age. There is a free investment dynamic, the possibility of distribution by means only starts after 50 years on several models. But a change was made in the second pillar. Three categories of savings or portfolios A, B and C were created. A is for those who have been retired for more than 10 years and there is free investment, a risk investment is possible and bad stakes can be corrected by the end of retirement. B is 5 to 10 years old, there is more conservative investment, and C is up to retirement for 5 years and there is the most conservative investment retained and cautiously. In light of the retirement of 65 years, I am interested in commenting on the statement by the Governor of the CNB, Mr Vujčić, that for the economic viability of Croatia it is necessary to liberalise or extend retirement, is that 67 years and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45280	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45281	Dear Mr. Kirin, the national reform programme is in preparation, and you yourself know that the law is related to the extension of the labour market until 2038 was passed by the SDP government if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45282	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate now. First, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45283	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen who manage mandatory pension funds, colleagues and colleagues. This morning there was a criticism that we were discussing some important points in the late hours. We today wanted to admit it or are aware or not aware we are discussing our future because those who are 40 years old are paying these mandatory pension funds by estimates over 40% of their pensions will be paid out of these funds that will be accumulated. And those who started to pay, and they were 40 in 2002, will be somewhere between 20% and 25%, because one part of the pension will come from the first pillar. But when we talk about these reports, then it is not a waste to remind that at the end of the last millennium, this reform of the pension system was adopted by consensus and the assessment was that there would be more significant economic growth and that by 2008 there would be an exemption of 10% to the second pillar of pension. And that's something we should be discussing today because I think that's the real problem with this whole story. Because look, if we legislate what these mandatory pension funds need to invest in, then basically we've routed them and left them very little room for maneuvers. They had when there was an economic crisis of certain losses as everyone had on the financial market and that should be said clearly and openly, so if you've listed these reports a little better, you'll see that in one fund it says that foreign shares brought him 555 million minus last year. So these are all the facts that we need to talk about when we talk about this report because repeating that some figures, not giving them the importance, are simply not good because if today we have a million and 790 thousand of our fellow citizens who have personal accounts in these mandatory pension funds, then our debate on this subject is, in my opinion, extremely responsible, must be responsible because we, the parliamentary representatives, who at one point have passed the Pension Reform Act. We are the ones who changed the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds in 2014 and directed some things. So probably today, if colleagues and colleagues had said that they had several hundred million invested money in Agrokor today would be very much here alive, vehement debate, etc. But when that's not the way the story's going down and no one's gonna talk about what's waiting for us. So when we talk about these funds, we need to clearly indicate some things. So the average contribution of this most important and largest pension fund in category B is about 7% for all 4 pension funds. However, colleagues and colleagues, we must also be aware that there is a time of investment when contributions to securities, how government bonds fell because it is simply a better status of Croatia and the price of capital on the world market was such that if something was once 6, today it is a 3 and a normal thing that these mandatory pension funds could not expect their contribution to be higher. It's just facts. So let's not be surprised if, in a year or two, this average contribution per, in the pension fund, is somewhat and percentage less. But here we have to be aware that we're talking about something that the law of numbers is worth. The law figures largely on the one to which it applies and also on the period of time to which it applies. Because only more significant and stronger pension payments, part of pension pensions from the second pillar should begin in 2027. At that time, those who were 65 years old in 2002 will be 65 years old and then something like what happens all these years on average about 5 billion kuna less comes to the state budget with the basis of the 5% allocated to the second pillar of retirement, so after that 2027, so I say the pressure on pension payments from the first pillar of retirement will begin to fall because one part of the pension will be paid out of the second pillar of retirement or. And that's it, that's just a fact. The fact that we in Croatia have, unfortunately, a negative relationship between employees and those who receive a pension and if, in this number of employees, so to speak, we eliminate those who are tied to the state, so those who receive salaries from the state and from the state budget, because the state budget is paying off pensions at this point is even worse. So somewhere in the real sector, if we take employees in the real sector and put them in relation to the number of pensioners, that's like 0.85, 0.86 people on one pensioner. Because let's not forget that somewhere around 250 thousand state and public officials, we have employees in local, regional self-government and their public enterprises, and that's almost 300 grand to you. So these are the facts we need to talk about. The only thing we can talk about in a nicer way is the increased number of employees. So to expand the base of those who pay because we can make this story a complete copy-pass and when we talk about health insurance, it's exactly the same story. If Croatia had a million and 800 thousand employees at the moment, we would not be talking about the problem of the pension system, we would not be talking about the problem of the health system but would have a completely different situation. The tax revenues would not cover up what is insufficient from pension contributions and health contributions, these are facts. And probably colleagues who manage compulsory pension funds in a different way would discuss everything together, perhaps some legal provisions would be different. But we are where we are, where we are, and that is why we have a responsibility when we are discussing this item of the agenda to look at everything and to make it clear that Croatia is in a certain way in need of pension reform, no matter how we look or don't look at it, it is simply like this if we're going to staticly observe it won't take us anywhere good. Our pensioners, the biggest tragedy at the moment when we talk about the stability of the fiscal system, when we talk about the stability of the budget, then we constantly highlight those 16, 17 billion kunas that have to be paid to settle all pensions. Because look, there we can separate pensions from regular working relationship by special regulations, etc., but with all that together, so it's a category of cost that significantly burdens state finances and on the other hand about 850, 900 thousand pensioners at this point have a pension below 3,000 kuna. And that's our real and real problem. And that's the problem we need to talk about at every agenda point when it comes to the pension system. Because if we're going to view it as a problem then we're going to think differently about certain things. Also when we talk about the fund's contributions, then you'll see that at this point, approximately 53% or 5.3 billion kuna is the income of the contribution and 4.87 billion kuna is the income from the investment of these assets in shares, in bonds, etc. However, we need to know that, last 3 years, the average annual income has been reduced by approximately 500 million kuna. Because by amending the law, something that was going on at the time of retirement to the state budget in such a way was covering part of the pension payment, so personally, which had a benified working time or special conditions, these are primarily employees of the MUP and the MORH to save themselves in public finances, someone found a Solomonian solution let us withdraw somewhere around a billion and 300, billion and 400 million from mandatory pension funds in three years. In that way, we're gonna do a little budget-stealing, and the soldiers, the cops, when they retire, they're gonna get paid out of that total mass, and they're gonna get it over with. Because it's also not against the fact that what we're paying 15% is a solid pension payment so we're paying for those who are currently retired and for us are going to be paying someone else. While what we are discussing today is practically individual or personal savings, each of the Croatian citizens who has a second pillar of retirement has an open account in Regos, that account is being paid by his money and he can, in principle, by clearly prescribed procedure at any time know how his situation is in that account and that is the difference between one and the other. And at the end of the second pillar's assets are, in a certain way, hereditary, while the funds from the solidarity payment are not inherited. If we said, I think at this point if I'm wrong, somewhere on average by, if we have 84 billion assets of the fund, we have about a million and 800 thousand bills, something less, it means that somewhere more than 40,000 kunas on average every citizen in Croatia has its own resources available. And God forbid someone dies, so his heirs have the right to the means. That's something my colleagues last explained, but I think that's what we should say at this point. Because look, today talking about whether or not we needed a pension reform is illusory to me. Since then, 17 years have passed since the time of administration of 15 years. I remember when I was a minister in February 2009, then I was still a minister, the assets of the funds were somewhere around 40 billion, there was a general chaos on the financial market, I suggested that we could take that money and in such a way finance the state budget, then I was simply butchered by certain groups across the media, but then honestly speaking, I didn't feel the support of all those who today are yelling that these funds didn't need it. So they are simply there, we need to accept them as they are, we need to keep clear, care and control of the basis of the prescribed law that these funds are invested in the most qualitative way. To be honest, in one discussion, see what with the increase in that separation by the second degree of retirement. Both colleagues and colleagues, given that these reports become lightly copyy-past except for certain amounts that are being changed, I think this is another report that would lead far better to a joint session of the Pension System and Finance Committee than at this plenary session as well as a lot of other reports, and perhaps to all of us a proposal and a recommendation to think about a more high-quality, meaningful, more efficient, more interesting debate and better and better quality work of the Croatian Assembly. The HDZ Club will support all these four reports, and I hope the next report will be even better, I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45284	Thank you, fellow Shuker. We have three replicas, the first of them is a distinguished colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45285	Dear fellow Shuker, does not pay a million and 780 thousand second-seat members regularly, they do this about a million and 420 thousand who regularly pay because you see from the report that 20% of the people do not pay in 2015 and 2016. Whether they are unemployed, whether they have left Croatia, it requires special analysis. So if we're talking, we need to talk about... the number of millions and 420 thousand to a million and 450 fund members who regularly pay 5% of pension contributions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said that the pension reform was brought by political consensus, I remember as you in 1998, although the political consensus existed, the pension reform here... , as always, it is when something is pushed, 15.7. before the meeting of the Parliament is completed, but I must tell you that we are paying for the result of poor communication today from 1998 to the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the reform did not have adequate serious social dialogue, nor did it have adequate serious communication with citizens, and that is one lack. Perhaps this debate and these discussions compensate for the lack of that communication. And the third thing, the payouts from the funds weren't for the benefits of what was taken of the money, but for those under special regulations. And the payments were for those who had the right to choose. So those who had, no, not benefactors, are not touched by the ZOM, therefore it cannot be touched. But the payments were for those who voluntarily entered the second pillar and after, he had the right to determine whether he wanted to pay off a pension only from a first or a two-stage pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45286	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45287	Comrade Hrelja, you remember the debate in this high house as well as I do. So it is specifically about Croatian police officers and Croatian soldiers. And we can stop there, and we can talk as much as we want to if it was voluntary, it wasn't voluntary. Once said, in one system, you have to volunteer, therefore, if you know better how many people applied in the first run, however, it was a political decision to get results in the budget better and better than they are. So let's let it go now, people get their money back, so on. When I was talking about the number, I was talking about the account number, not the number of those who pay. So the account number. And the other thing, since the concept was also the modality of law-making, '98, '99, I'm not getting into it. You know, in 2000, someone could change that, but when law enforcement started, then certain anomalies that we pay today, we don't have practically 4 types of pensioners today, they have these supplements, they have supplements, they're compensated for some things, so it should also be said that to pay back the pensioners, with those money they've secured is practically those 6% plus 100 kuna that are neatly embedded in the indexation of pensions, and that's how it is. So, it happened at different times of political authority in the Republic of Croatia, so I said concesually, because everyone has come into its own way to help solve this problem and we are where we are and precisely because of what happened in the past, I basically want to provoke today a certain debate, to be ready when we talk about pension reform, so that what we paid us tens of billions in the past year, and ultimately we have 850 thousand pensioners in the Republic of Croatia who have pensions below 3,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45288	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45289	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Shuker, I have therefore responded to the replica because of the key word you mentioned here, which is pension reform. So we saw now and when visiting representatives of the International Monetary Fund that she warned that reforms must start to take place. And I agree with most of the things you said here. Of course, by respecting that you've been Minister of Finance, those things are very close to you. What I think, which is crucial in your debate, means when we talk about pension reform, our goal in the future is to achieve that or to increase that rate of pay that goes from the second pension pillar to the total pension payment. You mentioned the number from 40% to two thousand twenty, I think seven. What I see as a problem. Someone here mentioned either the secretary of state or one of the esteemed fund representatives, that the biggest problem is actually in education. Even though we also have incentives, I also think in terms of tax exemption when we talk about the third pillar and the sense of incentive the state gives, we still have a small number of people who decide to do so. Because simply in the future, when we talk about reform, and maybe it should be said to people very openly because then we will now come to the fact that most of the pension will come from what they will pay themselves. Of course, it's a devastating fact. I'll talk about it in the debate. The devastating fact is that many people who have spent their entire life lives have made a lot of money in this first pillar, and today they do not receive or receive very small pensions. So we have to educate people, educate them to get as much resources away from their retirement as possible. Of course, people when, you gave today's respected presidents gave me these reports. People can't influence that. So she's paying for her assets, but I guess here are the people who will then decide where and how to invest in the legal frameworks they're given.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45290	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45291	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sagar, all of us in life experience can tell if we look at certain problems, we don't try to solve them at times, we just have to solve them as much as they cost us a few times as possible. In Croatia, too, today, we can say that some of the things that today are very structurally pressing us. These are these famous structural reforms that we're all talking about. It costs a lot, but the problems are left. So, you want a pension. Eight hundred and fifty thousand pensioners below 3,000 kuna. Shall we mention the health problem? Is it better at a given time to implement a structural reform with clear goals of what will be in the future or to rub the eyes of all those who feel like it might be so at this point, and ultimately, the problem is getting out of hand? Because when you look at the opinions of certain institutions on the outside, no matter how much someone likes them, then you'll see that they practically repeated the same problems year after year. So that's something we can't escape from. Sooner or later, someone's gonna have to take political risks and do it. Because structural reform only requires political will and political strength, not if someone attacks you through newspapers because a particular interest group is not responding, and one major group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia or entrepreneurs responds you are pulling two steps back. That's not how problems work out. And that's why I'm telling me we definitely have a problem here. We're going to have it tomorrow because we haven't allocated more than 5% on some plan, but we're practically 10% of the year, we should have reached 10%. I would like to have one thematic session, that colleagues from the funds and other people who are professional because there is special learning and knowledge about pensions, so that we all sit down together and discuss, let's see what kind of problems people will face in the future. Because we can't get away from it. We can praise whoever we want today, and what you're saying is that someone should pay these tax benefits is not the problem that people don't want, but people don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45292	Thank you. We move to the debate of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45293	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with a co-worker, respected representatives of mandatory pension funds, colleagues and colleagues. As fellow Shuker said, we can really agree to discuss today a very important topic because it concerns our future. To get back to the past, if anyone has experienced injustice in this society, then surely the pensioners who are there in particular in the 1990s have on several occasions been taken away from them, their pensions have been reduced multiple times. All that belonged to the law was taken, so today we have a case of what a colleague mentioned earlier that we have pensions that are below 2,000 kuna and the question is, can we even call them pensions? We're trying to be a civil society, a decent society that we care about every member of that society. So we're not a pack of wolves. And in that sense, it is very important to ensure the ageing conditions of every person, because they say when you're older, you don't need money. On the contrary, however, money proved necessary. Of course, we have two major reforms ahead of us: reform and pension system, reform of the health system. And when we say reform, then surely we can't rub people's eyes out, we have to tell them the truth that can be expected in that sense. The money we need today for pensions, now I don't know exactly the number, but let's just say that 35 billion kuna from the contribution doesn't have it special enough and because of this relationship mentioned by fellow Schuker. So a very small number of people who are working today, who are paying into the Mirovinski Fund compared to those who are receiving a pension. And actually the only way out is if we improve the economic situation, if we have more employees is actually the key to recognising the development of a country is reflected in the number of employees, not in how many unemployed there are even though the number of employees is decreasing unfortunately and because our young people are leaving, people are going to other countries. The key data is the number of employees, and especially the number of real sector employees. And here, despite the fact that there are incentive measures of the state, a small number of people decide to pay in the third pillar because people simply don't have enough money. As for the very report from the mandatory pension funds, what we can conclude is that in recent years these funds have been paid, of course in accordance with the legal frameworks, whether it's category A, B or C. What worries, when we talk about absolute amounts of these figures, that they are not large enough, are not large enough because they cannot cover today's needs. The truth pension started there in 2002, as has already been said, and as of today, we have failed to achieve that rate of payout from the second pillar, which might be necessary today, and I hope that what my colleague Schucker said, if we succeed in the future, mentions the amount of 40% that will be a great success. In fact, pensions themselves are not the same, some are achieved on the basis of internships, the long ones are achieved on the basis of certain, privileged situations. All those pensions need to be provided with money, and apparently there's not enough money. What you might now want to refer more to not only as an appeal, but also as a recommendation and a request to the representatives of pension funds, to invest more energy and more effort in the education of citizens means through your home banks in another way. I'm not saying that they don't, but maybe people should get to know what funds are about, where fund money is being invested, because people don't often know. Now, I'm going to go right now with something that I wanted at the end, when we talk about Agrokor, you see how much people actually pay in the media, how much the media put it, it's actually said in the media that people's pension is compromised and, of course, that the citizen is then rightfully asking himself, where they invested which of my income to invest eventually failed companies and whose investments are not safe. We have heard here that, I also read something, you said something, there in 2014 actually stop investing in Agrokor's companies, 2016 in December and 2017 comes to an end, many funds are being resolved by Agrokor bonds. What may have bothered the whole story and is often a subject and is really and on the basis of which you made such decisions to get rid of the bonds, of course you had a number of indicators. And did you have any contact with the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Did you have any contact with Minister Maric, and did he really know at the time that the situation in Agrokor was like that? It's actually a key question, and then the question worries people, because you decide on their behalf how you're going to handle that money. And just, I think there's more transparency, more quiet, again, I'm not saying there aren't, you probably communicate them through your websites and in other ways, but you need to craft that most, especially of these older populations, don't follow those things, maybe you should do more in television, maybe even some specialized TV show, where people might get more information about the whole story. The report is what it is. I mean, you can't, you don't kill the messenger because it brings bad news. He's who he is. As far as the reports and operations of the funds themselves are concerned, the funds have been working in accordance with the law, this is seen in relation to the risk of investment, so from category A to category C there is no question, I say, the only question remains in transparency and the visibility of these investments. The Mosta Club will hold its own session, where we will make the final decision on whether we will support these reports or not, but what is certain and we believe, in the future, with more effort and effort and resolution ministries, here more ministries and funds themselves, that this situation around the 2nd pillar and around the 3rd pillar of good pension investments will improve, because this situation which is now not good, pensions only on the basis of generational solidarity will not be able to survive, and of course, I heard the data today, I don't know if it's true, that someone can get a 300 kn peace. It is not clear to me how it is possible at all, but to increase pensions need a common effort from all those in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45294	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is a respected colleague of the Ice creams. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45295	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, with most of the exposure, Mr. Sagar, I agree, you've actually devoted your exposure to an important topic, which is information. Important information, that citizens also have information and that, but important information that pension funds should have, specifically as regards Agrokor in 2016, have invested in Agrokor bonds and I am asking you again the question, so who knows and who has the information that is the situation in Agrokor. That situation certainly hasn't been in the last six months, but two, three years. The question arises who is responsible for the question and pensions of our citizens, if pension funds invest in bonds of such fallen companies, so here, to explain this relationship of information and investment of pension funds to companies that are in big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45296	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45297	Thank you, Mr. Sladolev, for the replica. Perhaps to clarify, I may not have said it loud enough, so this is actually not addressed to the representatives of the pension funds, because as I have seen from the reports that are available and the notifications that the pension funds have given yet in 2014 cease investment. On the basis of the information they had at the time, in December 2016, it is actually said unclearly that it was because of Russian representatives, whether because of some other information that appeared in public, pension funds are being settled in bonds. Not really, they did the right thing, but the question is, did the government do the right thing? This is actually a key issue, and of course, maybe they, maybe they had contact with the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially Minister Marić, it's actually unclear from this whole situation, and they, the funds did their job, because in 2014, they keep track of what's going on at Agrokor and to say it like this, it's strange that they knew more than the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it's perhaps a key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45298	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45299	Dear colleague Zhagar, you mentioned the lack of information and need of the public. All those who entered the law into the second pillar system were bound to do so. So we all owe it, and now at some age when we have to worry about how and how the funds are invested, what are the contributions and everything else. Personally, none of us can influence this, but there are legal frameworks in which ratios and how much exposure is possible or what can be invested and can be invested. So far, and so far, and the reports so far have shown that these funds have really taken care of the offerings, the risk, which is very important, and the public has over-inflated this particular exposure to Agrokor companies and thus deceives the public, which is why colleagues on the board and now in the public opinion have really detailed. Therefore, let us not work on this spectacle in a way that was not well managed but was indeed managed in the context of all economic opportunities and market situations when they were able to achieve this much or so. The second question is how many of our options or legal frameworks that have not increased the share of the second pillar, although this was planned in time and thus further reduced this pressure to the first pillar in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45300	Thank you. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45301	Thank you. Dear colleague Peric, actually this last piece of your replica is the key to everything. How much 5% of me in the second column is small and then these people have 6.7,8.9.10% then their reports would look different. So maybe we could legal frameworks do it in a certain time period linearly to increase this share in the second column. But what's happening to us? We're missing it in the first pillar, that's the key. We don't have the number of employees, we don't have an economy that will cover the first pillar, and then we have to move those missing assets. There were even suggestions, I don't remember anymore, my colleague Shucker mentioned that it was taken from the second pillar or was intended to. So we're going to take it from the second pillar now, and actually the whole story comes down when we talk about pension reform that we're getting ready for what's gonna come to us in 10, 15, 20 years. As one man who's retired says now, it's easy for us to still get pensions, and who's going to pay you pensions, who's going to pay for you. Look, I think we're gonna get into a situation where this system can't be maintained. And that's why I say education, communicate with people because how you're going to implement reform, only when you convince people that it's better for them. If we're going to force people into something, it won't be good, so education is important. And once again just to point out, I said it, the media created such a picture, but be careful the media may have rightly done it and then people got scared saying we're gonna lose our pensions, invest in these risky companies from Agrokor concert will take our pensions away. And I'm glad the representatives here today said loud and clear that in 2016 there was no investment in these companies. It's just a question of how they could have been smarter, more informed than the Government of the Republic of Croatia that they didn't. ... I understand, legal obligation you must take care of. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45302	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia's esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of pension funds, state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I will present the party's position in the coming minutes Let's change Croatia and the club Let's change Croatia about this problem. I am truly sad that there are no more MPs here to interpret in a way that this is not an important topic for Croatian citizens, especially for future pensioners. It simply shows the situation in the assembly. However, let each representative take care of himself. So here's this annual report is just a follow-up to a nice story about pension reform and so on. the successes of pension funds, and that rights and fundamental issues are not open. The peace system is gentlemen in deep crisis because it takes 36 billion dollars a year to pay out pensions for all pensioners missing about 14 billion kuna, and for that amount the state must be in debt. The main motive of the so-called. The pension system of capitalised savings from 2002 was an unfavourable demographic movement on the one hand and the inability to finance future pensions. So these were the key reasons. And let's see how things are now. First of all, this joint report states: “As far as the wider social framework is concerned, in particular the contribution of the long-term sustainability of the pension system, unfortunately, and in the last year, unfavourable demographic movements continue, and the application of labour-active population emigration is becoming increasingly relevant for the stability and long-term sustainability of the overall pension system.” But, gentlemen, you believe that pension reform and the second pillar will solve the problem that arises from negative demographic movements, while at the same time investing 72% of your assets in government bonds? It's that man doesn't believe. So who's gonna pay you back those government bonds when people move out or die out? This is no longer a question of science, this is a question of common sense and logic. You invest additionally every year 4 billion kunas in new government bonds, the state is additionally in debt, and people are getting smaller. Bravo! So once and for all, it should be clear that demographic issues are not addressed by pension reform but by reverse, by demographic renewal, by investing in youth and not by age. Unfortunately, from the beginning of the reform to the end of 2016, so-called The transition cost of pension reform is 70 billion kuna and that is all the money that went into the second pillar instead of the first pillar. And the total net result of the pension reform is minus 43 billion kuna. This, of course, is not in your report, but neither does the government speak, however, of course, of course you're agreeing with the government on investments in certain companies, negotiating supervisory committees, you're staying in conflict of interest. Finally, you do not mention anywhere from a million and 700 thousand members that 460 thousand, as just recently said, are members of the second pillar but cannot regularly pay contributions or are temporarily self-employed during the year. What about these people, whose are they? Are they excluded, more known to ticket sellers for Germany and Ireland than the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that's the real question? Secondly, regarding your report, when you talk about assets, the portfolio structure of compulsory pension funds is then quoted as saying: "From the total net assets of the funds, the largest share of the funds is 95%, i.e. 80 billion makes up the assets of category B funds.’ Category B funds invested about 72% of the funds in domestic government bonds and about 21% in domestic and foreign shares. In this category of funds, the maximum exposure to the stock market is 35%. The reason for the high exposure to the RS bonds is as you say, I quote: #There are no other quality and prepared projects in which pension funds could invest." So you have 95% of the assets in category B even though a few years ago when you founded the A, B, C category of these funds along with the biggest Social Democrats in SDP, then you announced the revolutionary results of the investment to Minister Mrsic. Especially category A in which they should be the youngest members but see the devil you in Fund A of the category hold half of the bonds. Although there are 40 years left for people to retire. So totally amazing. In category B, you hold over 70% in government bonds and although you are allowed to invest as I said 35% and you invest 21% and say there are not enough quality prepared projects. So who should provide you professionals with projects so you can invest free money? Well, gentlemen, the New York to Tokyo capital market has been working 24 hours. This report on quality-prepared projects shows you as irresponsible to fund members and adaptable politicians. Why is that? So because it's the easiest thing for you to buy government bonds, then to do transactions on so-called. The OTC market is past the stock market, which is purely agreed and so on. Manipulative transaction and thus charge bond prices and keep it until maturity. In your report, you say literally that the fair value of debt securities is calculated on the basis of, quote, reported transactions outside the regulated market called OTC where transactions are negotiated between institutional investors. Well, that's terrible, you admit it yourself. This is how you gentlemen form the phantom profit of funds, so first you arrange the price, then report it on the stock market and make one single transaction. Where's the HANFA regulator, where's the capital market? Where's the truth about doing business and earning pension funds? She's not here. Here these days, people come to me and say pensioners are negotiating the recapitalisation of Petrokemia, Borov, even though these companies are doing business with a negative, operational profit. And we know that funds are just forbidden to invest with companies that deal with losses. Even in this report, you're accusing yourself of citing investments previously negotiated. It is high time for practice and policy by slogan to call pensions for investment to finally stop. And this is one of the most important issues that the Republic of Croatia has to deal with, and we see that these MPs that are not here, they think that this is not an important issue, and the dear pensioners you are looking at, open your eyes the next time you think about the composition of the Parliament. Thirdly, in the report you describe the results of the operations of compulsory pension funds and you say, the average of the annual real contributions of category B funds in the period until the end of 2016 is 3,89%. This would look really good if there wasn't a so-called. The transition cost of taxpayers on average costs us more than 5% and so much is the interest on the bonds that you buy. To say that healthy peasantly, so you have to pay your taxes or an extra 5% of yours to make $3.89%, so you figure out who gets and who loses and how pointless this system is set up like this. However, nothing so reveals the ability of the manager's trust fund as Table 4 data on page 13 of the joint report. The biggest profit you can imagine is being made on government bonds, which is $5.2 billion and on domestic shares 1.3 billion. And how? So you agree on the price. Even if we swallow it as an exceptional ability to expose them to the fact that investment in foreign stocks has brought them nearly 900 million kunas of loss. These days I expect an answer to my representative's question from a month ago, it should come from HANFA, which should report to me on which transactions every mandatory pension fund is and how much he lost by buying shares. So, realized losses and gains per transaction. The Croatian public does not know, and it must know because it is money for future pensions. This is a real picture of the efficiency of the management of the mandatory funds, so you stay at home where you control the domestic small capital market bar and the OTC market deals, and I repeat, the agreed transactions are by definition, we can consider so-called. Manipulations, because the market is off and the fund members don't get anything. And so for 15 years, you've been successfully painting your work, the great results that aren't actually there. And where's the HANFA regulator watching you? They're silent, of course. Because they used to make deals and play manager's fund. So, the ones that work there. It would've been great if you'd announced how much profits you've made or if you'd shown how much fees you've charged from the draft and let's see if the 2.7 billion kuna of the management fee is really well earned. Or let's say you explain to us what an entry fee will do when it's invested under the law of the sea. Now these are questions that are not discussed, and it may also be when part of the government and regulation are in fact your area, your sector and your mouth is full of the interests of the fund members. And to bring the end, I'll conclude. This report is just another one in a series of illusions that is spreading about a better tomorrow, which we see here, that individual representatives of the ruling structure are heart-supported. Unfortunately, not understanding the elemental logic of all this. And I really have no intention of insulting anyone here, but don't talk about anything about why you're not competent, then at least they'll respect your competence and your profession and your profession, and let the professionals and the people who understand this talk about it. Therefore, we change Croatia, it advocates the reform of the existing pension system, capitalised savings through the second pension pillar. The second pension pillar is a deception, it is a soap opera, it is burdened by public finances, it has been abandoned by all EU countries, only lives and functions in Croatia. I've advocated it, and I advocate it, I'm surprised that the representatives of the Most and two others, will support this report and see how much this is, on what foundations it rests, I urge you not to support it, to seriously discuss these issues. Well, let me get this straight. If we know that individual fund managers have grown with ruling politicians, then it is clear that it is roof capitalism that chokes the market and democracy and endangers future pensioners. I didn't give this speech with the intention of insulting someone or pretending to be smart, gentlemen. I'm just saying what as an economist, a financier, with a good intention of also provoking a debate in the essence of the pension system how to make it more stable, how to reform the existing pension system. I repeat, the second pension column is a delusion, he's a huge failure, he costs this country, all taxpayers, he won't bring what's expected of him and finally, we need to open people's eyes, and we can only open up if we're talking to arguments, and with the position of profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45304	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45305	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, I disagree with you that this is a failure. What can be a good idea can be better and worse. But here the idea is very clear that the model of pensions that worked as they worked and that today led to the average pension of 2200 kuna, we substitute for a model that will allow people from their savings, during their work to make a contribution and have more pensions. The problem, of course, is what's too small and what's the state in me, it's supposed to increase it, and the problem is, we'll see when they start coming out, so the amount you've said yourself, is now people, or that hasn't even started it yet, but in one 10 years, then we'll see really how many more states it takes and how the state needs to help keep these pensions at some decent levels. What you said, I disagree with that, so you mentioned investments from Tokyo to New York, so the law is very clear there, it's not a place for me, very risky investments, it's logical to invest most of the bonds and the more conservative forms of investment, although here we see the difference between funds. We see some funds that invest a lot in this part that invests more than 91 and some percent in Croatia, and some are a little more risky, depending on whether the contributions are larger or smaller. What I'd concentrate on right now, not criticizing something that we're going to do, but let's fix it so that really pensioners in 10, 15 years have decent pensions. The idea of saying it now, to take the money back, to do it with it, I don't know what, are ideas that won't do me any good. So don't think about how to discredit the idea, but think about how to fix the idea, here, that's my suggestion to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45306	Replication response, distinguished representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45307	Thank you. Mr. Maras, colleague Maras, I must admit you're a bit of a surprise to me as a representative of the SDP when it comes to this. The SDP should be far more committed to those endangered, excluded groups such as pensioners, unemployed. So here you are saying that on a good basis this pension reform is planted, that is why pension funds should now be stopped and they do not earn on the financial market in order to charge additional earnings to the pension system to pay for larger pensions. Well, that would be great. But there's only one catch, one problem, and that's that the financial markets are connected by umbilical cord to the real economy. So if the real economy is in bad shape, so you can't make money, it means that representatives of pension funds make money on the financial market that collapses or is shallow and depends on real economy. I get the impression that you're looking at the more financial market as a casino where you're going to make a lot of money no matter what happens in the real economy. So it has nothing to do with each other. I find it especially strange that you claim to be more isolated in the second pension column. So I'm telling you that's a logic problem. You and me, all of us. And at the same time in the first pension column, you don't have enough money to pay your pension now. So I'm telling you, it's a matter of logic. It's no longer a question of whether or not you're a professor. It's a matter of logic. If you don't have enough in the first pillar, and in the second, you stand out 5% in the second, and the state has to pay 5% on borrowed funds from that second pillar, so you're interesting in what? The interest rates of your own citizens to make contributions means you pay 5% to achieve 3.8%. If that's not clear to anyone, then he's got logic issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45308	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45309	Representative Lovrinovic, this information is very important and the trial is repeated. Our citizens are paying the bonds 5% into a fund that provides them with the future and earns 3.5%. So 1 and a half percent or 1, 2,... which is immediately at the beginning of the indicator and the most ordinary laymen that something vice versa made and that these funds are essentially purpose to themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where does this 1.2% go? Where's the leak? Is that the managers, is it the funds that are mostly owned by foreign funds? Whether that money is invested in the Republic of Croatia or in third countries, so today we have mentioned a demographic picture that only last year the Croats went to Germany 56,000, that in 2012. The Croats in Germany were 220 000, that in 2016 at the end of 330 000 or 105 000 more with the fact that we still have no indication of what is in Ireland. Which means we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, one more thing Zagreb and places where they have some kind of infrastructure and job opportunities. So where's the meaning of the fund? I expect a response from the fund. Where the 1.2% disappears if 5% of the citizens are required to pay, and 3.8% of them exercise rights. So what's the point of creating a future with the demographic collapse of Croatia? Where does that 1.2% invest and where does it go? Who does that go to in the citizens' pocket? So that's where HANFA was mentioned well as the regulatory agency? Where there is financial stability is threatened not only there, but that they regulate it then it would not happen that the banks 4 and a half billion kuna on fees are also coming out of Croatia. So, I think this might be a good point to explain, this is a very important fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45310	The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45311	Dear fellow Bull, you're just fine, you've actually recorded the key numbers 5% and 3.8%. So, if the state needs additional funding to pay every month for pensions, it must be owed to pension funds from the second pillar. They can demand a contribution of 4, 5, 6 ranged between 4, 5 and 6%. When they're looking for a 5-6% contribution, the state has to pay them that money in the future. How's the state gonna get that money? In a way that it will increase our taxes in the future, that it can pay means to future pensioners and, of course, pension fund management companies, and there's 1.2%. In the relationship between the state and the pensioners and the funds, that is, the management company, someone is too high, and that is the third. So we don't need that kind of cost. And that's why my position here is clear. The second pension pillar needs to be transformed, to give people freedom to decide whether to stay in it or not, because they had to enter it, there was no freedom, no democracy, to decide on it. And whoever doesn't want to transfer his account to the first pension column and there's a first pillar account there, there's another one, he has the ability to transfer funds to this voluntary pension column where he can invest freely, so that's where he accepts risks as they are. That's why I'm saying that this pension system, which is especially the second pension pillar, it's a heavy burden for public finances, it's no use. He's a cost to the state, and he's filled with debt. All 70 billion kuna assets now owned by pension funds are the debts of the state imagined. There's no money. That's what the state's gonna be paying for in the future for so many years. So it's funded by debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45312	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45313	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, you mentioned at the beginning of your exposure to the negative balance sheet of the first pension column, that there is a certain amount of money missing each year. I just want to remind you that our system actually and this Croatian Pension Insurance Office no longer actually has the function of the fund that we are talking about here today. Because before the war, that pensioner had stakes of this as gentlemen here have money in a good part of the companies that all the shares belonged to the state of HEP and Arab, etc., hotels, hotel Rivieras, which is why he came into the budget. So the amount that he could manage in retirement at the time was probably the same as the subject of the debate so that something less would be missing. But that's exactly where I want to draw attention that we are now, of course, that here in the report, that in the last 15 years, almost 30 billion have been earned, so to speak, but it also says that only 7 billion are paid to users who have started using it, and a little more than 5 billion are paid annually. Now that balance is good, second pillar for mandatory pension funds. What happens when these demographic trends continue in 15, 20 years? When there's more and more payments, and hopefully there's going to be a rise and a payment, and maybe there's not, then we're going to have that question that you're talking about the negative balance sheet of the first pillar. And also, what should be said for the public, that at the moment, they had a choice, those who were older than 40 in 2002 could choose whether to go to the second column or not. But those who have chosen have made a mistake. The peace of the first pillar is more favourable than those of the second pillar. And that's all because of a 27% supplement to which he commits to a voluntary retirement stake. So everyone who retires, now, is more favourable pensions, that they didn't use the second pillar than they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45314	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45315	Dear colleague, you've made some other facts, but here you'd point out once again, if there's no money to pay off pensions, and missing about a billion and 200, 300 million kuna each month, so the state has to be in debt. I repeat, to whom? Banks, but mostly pension funds. So she sells them bonds that they buy, so I say, when they buy bonds, the bonds come into their property, so it's a government debt. So the government buys debt with debt, pays off debt, sorry. So that's why I'm telling you it's a soap opera. It's a soap opera. Here is the basic logic and I repeat that Croatia is the only country that has a second pension subsidy, so come on, I guess that's the interest of all the parties here, the question of sound logic, here we're fighting for the pensioners, and the pensioners are representatives of all the parties and HDZ and SDP and the HNS and us, so let's protect them from their pensions because the poor fellow citizens you follow us say you're in grave danger, this system is under collapse. If we change, so, a pension system like this, that people are demographically deciding whether to transfer their accounts to the first pension column or maybe to the third, we're going to have a whole other picture. That's what Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary did, so Serbia one doesn't have such a pension system. You understand? Let's get this straight, and it is fortunate that a number of MPs have come to this House, finally, to open the right questions, because these parties that have been, if they stay and if they talk and behave like this, we will never get out of the crisis, Croatia will fall even deeper and change it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45316	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45317	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I simply adore your critical approach, but I have not yet heard concrete suggestions on what we are going to do. I think you're serious enough to know the matter, to suggest what needs to be done, but not just, let's destroy everything. Because of that, let's take down the second pension column, I'm listening. Because we live in a schizophrenic situation where labour unions support the second pillar, and pensioners' associations want to freeze and tear down another pension soup. You talk and talk all the time in your retirement debate. This concerns current workers and future pensioners. This money that's here, not the current pensioners, because they froze or crashed the second pillar, the current pensioners, that's why they won't get any more swearing. And don't please keep in the illusion that by bringing this down, we're fixing the pension system. So, in 1998, as much social dialogue as it was or wasn't, we decided that 5% goes into personal savings. Imagine if we said, we're reducing our contributions from 20 to 15% and 5% of our citizens at will. Either put in retirement savings at the insurance houses or volunteer pension funds or keep it in your stocking, would you have this for me today? I know this is a risk and a commitment of the state. I know you're right because there aren't enough projects and don't say that the state isn't in charge of designing projects for good investment. She's in charge. What is happening with us cannot happen in Norway and Denmark, which have a rich experience with pension funds and are institutional investors' pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45318	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45319	Dear colleague Hrelja, I love your temperament in the debate, but I would have defended the temperament so much if I were as godfather of this model as you are. And I congratulate you on your consistency. There's nothing. But don't accuse me of tearing it down, so I'm not tearing it down. Did you hear I'm tearing something down? I'm just saying it's necessary to transform the second pension column to give people freedom, I didn't say the word to crash. To decide whether to transfer their accounts to the first pension column or to the third. That's how you accuse me and try to manipulate the public. We don't need that. I invite you to sit down together, you know it's been missed since the beginning. Well, you mentioned earlier, it's a good thing 5% of the salary goes into savings, into a second pension column. Are you in the second pension column? Yes, it is. So why don't you try to raise these 5% tomorrow, and bet it at the bank, not raise it, but try to get a loan at the bank and pawn your savings at the second pension stake, and you know it's impossible. So this is a hoax, it's not savings, but this isn't a place. So I call on this to finally become the theme of the plenary session, not to discuss this only on the occasion of the report. These are not the right topics, this House is running away, ruling to run away from fundamental problems such as pension reform, monetary reform, demographic recovery, etc. So it's not my intention I don't want to destroy anything, I want to build, we need to make a pension system that's sustainable, and above all, that makes sense that makes sense. And all those who defend this system also understand because stakeholders always exist everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45320	Thank you. Now the proposer's representative will have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45321	Thank you. Here I liked the honor in front of retirement companies to answer a few questions, a few findings. First, what is the most important contribution for each member, which is why I will first reflect on it. Mr. MP Lovrinovic said the real contribution is 3.89% and that citizens pay 5% for bonds purchased by pension funds. If we're talking about yields, we need to talk about nominal yields, not real yields. Members receive a nominal contribution. He's not 3.89, he's 6. Citizens don't pay 5% now or the state doesn't owe 5%, last week she issued a new state bond emission for 15 years, which means an extremely long deadline, and we know that the interest rate is rising with a maturity deadline, due to 3.4%. Those bonds that are most significant and are most often issued by the ten-year-olds, today the state would be in debt below 3%. We believe that it would be a offering that would be the required yield of 2.9%, when compared to 3% and 6% is a huge difference. So we're not supposed to talk about real yields. We're talking about nominal yields. So I think the purpose of this whole story is very clear. The second thing, the OTC bond transaction, yes, OTC bonds are traded, traded with bond dealers, contracted business, prices are market prices. It's not like that in Croatia all over the world. Nowhere in the world on any developed market is traded through the stock market to put someone on the demand market, the other one toss his demand. It's always OTC transactions. There is nothing different in Croatia than outside. Exchanges with bonds are not inconclusive. Further pension funds trade with a lot of Croatian bonds that are included abroad most often on the Luxembourg stock exchange are Croatian euro boards nominated in the euro, Croatian boards nominated in the dollar, no transactions are concluded on the stock market with the world's largest banks,... they are all OTC transactions. So the rules, the practice in Croatia is no different than in developed markets. The second pillar in Europe and the world, the pension system in Europe and the EU, and in the world it is very different from the country to the country. It's not true there's no other pillar. There are a wide range of countries, there are very important in Romania, Bulgaria, the Baltic countries in Poland, the rest of Slovakia. In Western Europe, what is most important to me for the development of consciousness among our members, the second pillar of the UK was launched in 2011. Great Britain is the most advanced country... As regards the development of the capital market, the United States is concerned with the development of investments through voluntary pension funds. In Western Europe, there are a second pillar of many Scandinavian countries, ultimately Switzerland. The systems aren't the same, they're different. However, there is a savings in the second pension pillar, very, very developed and voluntary pension funds, and I think that in Croatia there should be an even greater emphasis in the future on additional pension savings and that many of you are bigger and concluded, demographic movements do not contribute, further eviction of the population from Croatia does not contribute, and I think that individuals will have to take care of their pension savings on their own. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45322	Thank you. We have three replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45323	Thank you very much. You said that it is the same practice in other countries, so you mention the UK, you mention developed countries, but the fact is that this fund has been since 2002 and you haven't given us any answer because if it were the same practice in Croatia as in the UK by development would not be below Romania and Bulgaria. So you didn't explain it well in the percent because give us a little laymanly that in terms, that's first. Secondly, is it possible that foreign pension funds are doing this in other countries and that in these countries what they are doing in our country, 5% of the citizens who give it is your obligation to give it 3.8%. and now you speak nominally like this, but the fact that pensions are getting smaller and now you explain whatever you want, and the banks that are in Croatia as well as pension funds are much more interest than in the domestic countries where these banks come from. So that's why emigrating a demographic image, because these funds that owe it is true that the bonds of the Croatian state take from you to repay the debt, it is due to you to repay the debt from what people pay you, i.e. citizens. Your members. It will only be for the return of the interest owed by the political elites, the debt of the public who have accumulated. And of course, that's how we work, the citizens don't have anything, they don't have investments, there's money on all the issues. And it's really a question here of what the HANF regulatory agencies are doing, what the Stability Council is doing, is the governor at the head, what the CNB is doing, on all these issues, because only money is being sucked out of Croatia, other countries are investing, and that's why people young people are mostly leaving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45324	Thank you. The answer to that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45325	I'd like to, I think I'd like to mention it again, we might, we might be chasing two things. It just so happens to fit in. You said 5% pay the citizens. That 5% is paid but that has nothing to do with the contribution, that's the money you pay in the fund and that's what the donation goes to, and it happens that Professor Lovrinovic said that, 5% are paying interest on the money the state borrows. It's just not true, interest rates are much lower today and the yields are higher than these interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45326	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45327	Here's Mr. Vlaic, I have to admit that I expected a little broader and more quality answers to what I was saying, but I understand that you've come to an environment where people are not all experts on pension systems, for finances, so we can both make a real and nominal contribution and so on. But at least I don't need you to explain the difference between a real and a nominal contribution, but if you want to, every investor is interested primarily in a real contribution. But we pay 5% now, and that's real, you understand? Let me say it to the end, please, I've been listening. Inflation, deflation, etc., that's quite clear. And don't, there's no need to manipulate it, it's quite clear. It's true that it's now a lower interest rate on bonds but so far you've had an average contribution, I'm not saying backwards for a few months, you've given a report for 2016. And over the past years it's been like that, you can't get away from it, so there's no need to talk. You've been developing the wrong consciousness in people all along, and it's time to change that. Here's the thing about elemental logic. I'm not against you, so you don't get it wrong. So tomorrow, you'll be reorienting yourself into voluntary pillars, who wants a column, so go ahead. Well, you're working as well as you are outside, so we're not the people here who are against everything. By the way, develop the third pillar of the present, or if he's second tomorrow to be called second voluntarily, so there's no problem, I'll be the first to support it. But let's not do any damage in the second pillar, which is public money, and at that time the hole in the first pillar is huge. Dear gentlemen, I repeat, this is a matter of elemental logic, let's gather around this, this will reduce the drastic public debt, reduce the deficit of the state budget, and most importantly, the pensioners will have a more stable pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45328	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45329	I mean, that's a lot of things that have now been set up and put in place, what Professor Lovrinović was saying, it's not really a question for us, it's a matter of MPs, it's a question of legislation. I still think, personally, I think that colleagues share the view that the second pillar is very positive for Croatia to, that future effects will show when a significant part of the population that are now members of pension funds will retire. According to our calculations, those who are 40 years in the combined system of the 1st and 2nd pension pillar will receive 44% of pensions from the second pillar, 56% of first pillar pensions, and in the first pillar are the separations of 75% of total pensions and only 25 in the second pillar. And it's very simple, it's all over. And what I'd like to mention more, every payment in the first pillar implicitly generates a debt to whoever paid it. And the payment in the second column generates explicitly, which is why it's that transition cost, it's today, but it will eventually turn everything around. And finally, however we look at the second pillar, there wouldn't be that 86 billion kuna savings, the question of where these money would be today, would be a lower public debt something but the effect would be much lower than that than this positive savings of 86 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45330	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45331	Thank you, Vice President. Oh, here's a very short question and it's about the subject I was talking about in the debate. You must undoubtedly make decisions and make decisions because you have the money of members and that availability must be responsible. So here's what I might do, maybe on this example, you can explain to us how there is communication between pension funds, between the government and you, we go back to last year's sale of shares or buying shares of Concar. And then a fellow MP, I think the current Minister, Mr. Maric, is the question and then asked. How could such a decision be made in one day? Not really now the government, the government has made such a decision to sell but how did you actually put yourself in that whole procedure because he literally claimed that in one day it all happened? Whether it was considered in the long term, whether it was some kind of decision that was well planned or simply happened that because of this cooperation between policy relations and you as a fund representative, it simply had to be made, such a decision had to be made. What is the relationship between you and your governance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the information you have on the current state of the market? I don't know if it's a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45332	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45333	Is that what you mean by the example of Agrokor?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45334	No, Concar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45335	And for example, Concara. Very, very simple and very transparent. We have, in principle, announced, everyone for themselves that there is an interest in investing in a certain number of shares in the government portfolio. So very, very in principle and the Government has made an independent decision on the sale of these shares and sold them at the auction at the Zagreb Stock Exchange at which all institutional investors from the Republic and outside the Republic of Croatia could participate, each of us, or any society, have made a decision for themselves, each society has defined the price at which they will invest in these shares for themselves and for example. Our society has not received any shares of Concar. That's proof that we haven't negotiated a specific transaction in any way. So our offer was slightly lower, we calculated to the lower, other colleagues calculated higher, it was a very transparent transaction on the Zagreb Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45336	Thank you very much. Now we will continue with the clubs, and now, on behalf of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of mandatory pension funds, respected state secretaries and assistants, colleagues and colleagues. I've been encouraged by this little debate so far, and I think two things should be highlighted. The first thing is that here, Mr. Bulj, I listened to you and Mr. Lovrinović, it is worth noting that we can talk here in the Croatian Parliament today thanks to the amendment that I personally signed in front of HSU in 2014 in addition to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds because it is a public business for citizens of Croatian private financial institutions, but it is a public business and citizens who need to hear what is happening with their money. Thanks to that fact, we're discussing it here today. By 2014, the business of compulsory pension funds in the Croatian Parliament had not been discussed. I appreciate Mr. Lovrinovic's request that we discuss this here. But that's two debates. One is a debate between financial professionals and the regulatory agency, which is correct, which is not right which is good, which is not good at investment. The second is the debate of what our opportunities are and what pension system we want. However, we decided on this debate in 1998. And since I'm a legalist, I respect what we decided in 1998. And my concentration does not go according to alternative solutions, according to the improvement of the system. I don't consider the system of the second pillar and the mandatory pension funds and everything that the law says ideally. It needs to be done, though. Of course, you can change the law, who says it can't be my savings and my deposit for certain things? But it needs to be changed in law. And secondly, please don't ever say I'm someone's best man again. I know exactly who I am best man, but surely mandatory pension funds, I'm not. I, unlike those who first retired this year, and had no choice, I have a choice. Because I volunteered to get into this story. But the ones that happened this year, the two of them at this point, are second-degree bonds because they're 55 years old and they're going into full-age retirement because they've been working on jobs at a glass factory for 30 years, on a well-favoured job internship where insurance training counts 18 for 12... Every year, it brings up another 6 months of work experience and in 30 years of training, they have 45 years of insurance training, and every three years their age limit for retirement is reduced by one year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we got caught up in the situation. We weren't careful what was going on with our labour Corps, and we found that two men were going into retirement this year, and the bonds were in the second pillar because they were under 40 in 2002. That can't happen to us. We must discuss this and improve the legislation that regulates this area. That's why I want to talk this way. As far as the reports are concerned, the Committee on Labour and Pension System and the Social Partnership have passed, they have received support, technically on the same level and I will say where, at a better level than the 2015 report, and I do not have much to talk about. But I can talk about the failures of the second pillar, I can. We had no solution for two-stage pensioners, which would be if their pension from the first and second pillars was less than the lowest pension. Then what are we gonna do? And people like that will be. Such people will be that because of lack of internships, which is due to low wages, which due to the lack of pay, which due to the failure of contributions, was all burdened by these last 15 years in the Croatian state. These problems are personal problems. We also have to define in two-stage pensions minus or the limit below which you are not going. That's what the state needs to stand for. There is no pension system in which the first pillar functions separately, the second pillar functions separately and the third pillar functions separately. They must be in synergy, where one ends, the other begins and vice versa. What is the lack of one can and must be compensated by solutions in the second pillar, i.e. whether first or third because we have an obligation to safeguard the social security of citizens and respect for the limits below which we do not go. Is such a complex discussion of the pension system how to change it deserves our attention and deserves one thematic debate and at this plenary session so that we don't always talk about missing something or being imposed on us. And I agree that it should be of greater interest to the representatives of the citizens of the Croatian Parliament, the MPs or whatever they call them because they get votes from current and future pensioners. In particular, this joint report would refer to something we asked for in last year's debate, which is a kind of projection. If you have a joint report in front of you, see page 21. It is interesting that this table will look like pensions of the total pension from the first pillar and pensions of the second pillar for 35 years in 65 years, in 67 with 40 years of internships, but relative to gross salaries of employees. I think the second row defines an average gross salary of 7752 kuna. And if someone spends their whole life at that salary level, if they do 40 years of internships, they'll have 4,000 total pensions or 3949. Suppose he's 15 years old now, so another 25 has to work. If we look at the indexation, it'll be a small pension. If he is 30 years old when a job goes to 65 in retirement, the total sum total pension will be 3017 kuna. This will be at the level of possible minimum pensions then, so for the salary below the average this system will not respond to good pensions. This system that exists now will respond to good pensions only for, only they are higher than average salaries for these salaries, but not for average and below average salaries. And it's a challenge to do that. What do you do? What do you do for those who won't have a job? What do you do for their social security? I'm gonna say one heresy now? Why would every penny for a liter of exhausted water or every lime for exhausted oil, for maybe tomorrow some gas, for a cubic stone that draws, the natural resources that are drawn in this country wouldn't go into retirement savings for all citizens. As a matter of principle, everyone is equal because they are citizens at birth and are upgraded to it, so that's some kind of minimum that's been created for years. This builds on what I pay for undeniable compulsory savings or voluntary savings. I'm the only one who's afraid of our citizens on volunteering, because some polls say if someone gave them 20% of their pension contributions so that rarely anyone can save and you've secured that pension, you'd rather spend it because when we see it, we spend it quite easily. And yet, on the other hand, I must admit that I am surprised that Croatian citizens, independently of these 84 billion kunas, have over 200 billion kuna savings in banks, insurance houses, voluntary pension savings, etc. So, there's one part of citizens who saves a lot, I guess, but there's also that kind of habit. And I'm wondering if we've given this as a volunteer, would this look like this or something. Although that depends on how we deal here. I don't mind people taking on most of the responsibility. But it is the task of the state to ensure a minimum for all and therefore my proposal is that in the future all these natural resources are not put into the budget, but given in some savings to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as a basis for some social security not only budgetary expenditure, but as a basis for some social security. I really think that by modeling the Scandinavian funds, pension funds must be institutional investors. But I'm really surprised that there could have been a misunderstanding about looking for investors in the port of Gruz because I consider the project ideal for pension funds as regards the long-term nature of the project as it is a potential concession for 40 years and safe revenues. So there are such investments that can provide income, not everything has to be a bond, not everything has to be a bond, but someone has to stand behind such projects and these projects must mean long-term development of the Republic of Croatia. Of course I agree with what's been said here that the pension system can't solve this country's demographic policy. It can't even invest in science, you know, but it can be a security of employment, pro-pulsive ways of stimulating people to work, that in some way what they do is worth it and it buys them out that they don't work for anything, that they're exposed to a racket, that can help, and it can mostly help them if children are born. If children are not born, all these measures are in vain, if this will not lead to the birth of children, we have none of that and all the strategies and all the systems will not help much, if we generally have no consciousness in the first place we must continue what is our natural task. As far as this is concerned, the Independent Representatives' Club and HSU will support these reports because these are the required reports and I personally and our HSU Club in the previous assembly of the Parliament, we want to discuss this, and it depends on us how much interest we will show and we will make this specific to certain problems so at another meeting, I would like my colleague Lovrinović to make that financial part. I would like to participate, I get less into that part I understand, but I am much more interested in the pension system present and future, but I also said Mr. Lovrinović, that professionals have to deal with certain things. Not everyone can operate on your heart, or whoever our colleague Kirin is going to talk to with those fine nerves, etc. So, we're going to support this, we're at our disposal, and we're very interested in all these stories, there's no, once again I'm saying, no godmother and we're not about to tear down the care we're about building and improving the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45338	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. So let's start from the beginning. He is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45339	Dear colleagues, we've heard a lot today, some have objected to an exposure a little earlier. I asked for some specific questions, because we signed more laws than any Chinese empire of 1,000 BC. Kr. To cultural evolution, and where are we? Here's the legal yawn, here's the deal. Mr. Hrelja, you have a Croat outside the country who's coming back, they've got double taxation, what about it? One got 2,000 kuna retroactively in a nursing home, it can't pay, what are we gonna do about it? Another nonstop mentions some kind of Scandinavian model. So when we realize that there's a government party here for 55 years and that it's annulled both private property and where the only relationship to the state was a parasitic relationship, what a Scandinavian model. It was a social model, it was a bullet in the head and the abduction was annulled private property. This is how you have Germany, lost 2 St. War. There's a surplus in hundreds of billions of dollars, there's harmony between unions and economies, businessmen, harmony. What do we got here? We've got unions that are just plain ornaments like 13 pigs. We also have, say, this functional system. Why they always ask the wrong questions. Why some systems are functional and some are dysfunctional. This is a dysfunctional state. As expected by the pension system functional within the dysfunctional rule of law. These are the key questions for you, and I don't think those questions are passive questions. I'm asking for an answer. I've asked for an answer from our experts. Where Croatia will be in rural countries you have 5 people working and one in retirement. Who will pay into the pension system when you and the party have created your entire party another generation of emigrants. Who's going to pay into that pension system? It's all just a list of wishes, super spikes, but the spike doesn't cook rice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45340	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Hrelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45341	Dear colleague Glasnović, I've been through well, is it obvious today, but be careful not to insult the unionist in front of you. You know... No, no unionist sitting in front of you and you know your colleagues as well as I, the ex and I'm a former unionist and I need to remind you that there is no longer a single-party system here for 25 years. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, you know, we're all kind of growing up, we're all kind of born, we're all kind of schooled, it wasn't all bad in that system, and the bogeyman isn't all right in that system that you advocate, I just have to tell you... I just need to tell you that things are being resolved step by step. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] That one step regarding double taxation was resolved and this year, in the third month of the Finance Minister's rule, did not adopt our amendment, so our amendments did not adopt the other side, but made a good move because the regulation defined the taxation of our citizens who are receiving pensions from abroad, and they are now less burdened, or justly burdened with the exact amount of taxes. So, of course there are more problems and they still need to be solved, one step at a time, but this topic is definitely not about defeating the pension system and the policy of one-sided and one-sided rather than something concrete. It is 84 billion savings for Croatian citizens mandatory. We can talk about whether it is mandatory or not and what it brings us by chance if it is not mandatory, whether we have responsible citizens or not, and we have given responsibility, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45342	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrelj and the government's representatives, I'm going to keep repeating here, one thesis until you sort it out. In cooperation or first of all, the government itself. For the last 3 years, since we have had economic growth, wages in the country have increased over 10%, at the same time, so the deflation state and the formula used to synchronise pensions from the job internship has devastated pensions for more than a million of our pensioners. So these pensions grew by 10, 15 kuna a year, 60 percent maybe nothing, so zero. And the gap between wages and pensions of the largest number of people in Croatia is increasing absolutely further to unsuspecting proportions. So pensions fell deep below 40% of the average salary in Croatia. I ask you to correct or correct the formula or find a model of one-time compliance of these pensions with the salary growth that has occurred in the last 2.5 years. It is something that is feasible, it is something that is particularly feasible in the situation because the fiscal situation in the country is improving, it is getting better thanks to economic growth above all, and you cannot leave that large group of people in Croatia who have done their job neatly and have retired to live on the edge of hunger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45344	Here's how it's going to be answered by the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45345	Dear fellow Greeks, I repeat again, this is today's report on the work of compulsory pension funds, the savings of younger Croatian citizens in the second pension column and their business, and it is not really a debate on the functioning of the pension system, although you are right that after 14 years, there has been a significant decline in average pensions in the average salary of around 1.5%, and this is due to a joyful fact that wages have increased slightly in the Republic of Croatia. So we really, no matter what isn't in this topic I'm going to be very happy to answer my opinion on that question. You know first you should say and be honest that the 1998 projections were saying that at this point should be an average pension in average salary of 32%. So the persistent work between the others and HSU with all governments is we keep it at 39% with various 100 kuna supplements is 6% with an add-on of 4 to 27% inside, so we've been fixing the systems and it's been standing at approximately 39.40% for a long time. Now there's been a significant wage growth. The first harmonisation that this will show should be harmonisation in the 9th month, but I agree with you that if the economy grows, we should either say the average pension cannot fall below 40% and if we fall we are obliged to intervene exceptionally or to introduce it or to introduce it, it has nothing to do with this debate, or introduce a third harmonisation by principle the smallest get in absolute terms the most because the function then is fighting poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45346	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. So here in these reports you can see that most of the assets of the fund are actually government bonds of the Republic of Croatia. And there are still offerings when you add this up in the past like they said they've earned something on Agrokor and lost something, they've made a very good living on the donations of the Republic of Croatia. But the question arises, we recently heard the minister that in just a year he saved 300 million kunas, that your contributions to government bonds are now getting lower and lower, and that our goal is to get lower and lower. And now I ask the question, what are the pension funds going to be in ten years if they're going to be making, so we need to talk seriously about it, be on government bonds, which is our goal as a country to pay 1% less, to be 1%, to see on the market that there are no companies that are going to be listed, we don't have that kind of. IPO means we don't have such companies that can stimulate some kind of economic growth where they could benefit both funds and such companies. And we know it's questionable and what the total pension from this is going to be when it's known that the average pension is 2,200. I'm just asking a question in the future when we're talking about what we're going to have and how we're going to do, and our goal as a country is that we have 1% to 2% as a normal, sort of a regulated European country, that we have contributions to our bonds, and 80 to 90% are their contributions. Now I ask the question of what the pension reform will look like in the future, if we stay only on this 5%, how will those calculations actually look in the future and if they fall in a few years, and I say that if they fall, what will they report in any way, and will all those who are in that second pension column panic, and are we going to think about it now and what policies are they supposed to think a lot longer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45348	The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45349	Dear fellow Lalovac, you have opened this issue well, but what will happen if nothing happens and if the bonds are made smaller, you can see on page 21 of this joint report in the projection of future pensions. So they can only be below it if it's brought down. Of course, that answer, I am not competent enough, the answer to this should be given by representatives of compulsory pension funds because they aim to retain both their fees and their profits to their parent banks and in the orderly business of funds or capitalised savings for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So again I repeat doing a public matter for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and with it should sit down and see what their potentials are for investment. I've only said one project that I personally consider to be a great financial expert, but given the long-term long-termness of this project and the visitation of that position in our beautiful, which is Luka Gruz, I think it's an ideal project for pension funds. I can't believe that Croatia has no such projects that can bear profits. We will also not have companies that will be ready to list their shares on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, but we will have to do so in some way under certain minimum risks and create them through change of management, through change of management, through management and management of these companies. So I'm not gonna politically push funds into the capitalization of Petrokemia or anyone. If there is no plan and control point and evaluation in certain positions, this will go well from a bad situation. If that exists, if we're responsible, then I don't have a problem with those things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45350	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45351	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I remember, too, Mr. Hrelja of your amendment, in 2014, when you actually initiated that the report goes before the Croatian Parliament at the Amendments and the addition of the Pension Fund Act and that's true. What you're talking about and you've touched on these contributions to the first pension column of 15%, or 5% for the second pension column, and actually the question that the second pillar's pension depends on, actually, on what it depends on. But here's the thing about colleagues and the public, maybe it's good to know and repeat that it's mostly about funds in a personal account. As far as I know then, the fee charged for pension insurance for, that is, the one-time 5%, is obtained at a time of retirement, older age, or older age, higher pension, a way of harmonising pension, a contractual form of pension from the second pillar, meaning the thought of an individual, common, as far as I'm not wrong with or without the guaranteed period, the age of the spouse, of course, if that joint pension you spoke of and due to the guaranteed period unless I'm wrong. That's what you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45352	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45353	Well, of course, Mr. Babico, there's a lot of work to be done here, and it's not even like the processes are over. If you saw, I was deliberately talking about cases that were found. Because we were kind of expecting the first pensioners from the second pillar of 2019, and they were supposed to be women who were leaving early retirement. And based on these calculations, we're based on these calculations, which means we've run through time, simple events have run us over, we haven't analyzed and improved this system according to what's going on among the insurance companies. And I hope something on that plan will start this year. And as for the story of saving, I think it is, they're the variant that you're talking about who's going to choose and I don't think they're the ultimate variations that can still be added. And about for those who have been saving and investing here for 15 years if they have invested 100, paid 100, I think after 15 years, I won't make much of a mistake if I say that their amount of capitalised savings and despite the decline in 2008, and that's a significant drop somewhere around 50% higher, so they have 150 on account, so that's some current relationship. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45354	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45355	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. Mr. Vice-President, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support these reports. And what we need to talk about here is the sustainability of the system and not give messages that are not contained in them and solutions and some suggestions to make it better than to ask whether this system and our responsibility will be great and the responsibilities of the societies that manage these funds is great so that there is no time when people will become aware that what they have been saving over all years will not be enough to have a decent pension. So this is where we found ourselves to analyze the reports of the companies that are the fruit of one project, to move from the intergenerational solidarity system, means that we all pay for everyone in the system where everyone during their working life will save a certain amount of money, a society, or a fund that chooses that money something and increase and fertilize with some contributions and then be paid to people's pensions. Now, the question is whether we'll be satisfied with the result when the real pension payment takes place and when hundreds of thousands of insurance go into full retirement because when the whole system started, it was an obligation to enter the second pillar was people up to 50 years. That means it's been 17 years now or 16, or not 2002, it seems to me, 15 years have passed since then. And now come the years when people will be slowly coming out of that system. Those who saved those 15 years I'm sure I won't have pensions at the expected level. And in my view, the great responsibility with money management alone is all those involved in the system and the state but also funds to warn about certain shortcomings, and it is certain that people will not have pensions, perhaps at the level of those we have today in the Republic of Croatia, which are terribly low, and on that side when a fellow Greek warns everyone here, regardless of what is said about compulsory pension funds, when we warn that we have a situation in Croatia that people who have worked hard now have 2250 kuna average pensions, and that many of them are so much concerned with the situation where they have a certain economic recovery and when we all listen every day and that the recession is behind us and that the deficit is smaller and when all these people listen to it on TV, they look at the media, and then they ask themselves, so those 12 kuna we get on the annual level is really insufficient and of course think about these people. But on the other hand, we have to think about what we just said, which is that this investment structure will no longer produce such results as it has been so far. So we have bigger investments, which is how the law has defined in the state, in the public sector, and these contributions, given the movements that are on the capital market, are getting smaller every year, and thus the contribution of these funds that we are analysing here will be smaller and smaller and we will still find it difficult to get to the level sought which will be enough for people to get decent, decent pensions after 35 or 40 years of internships. We're going to have low pensions, and that's why what I mentioned at the beginning is that we need to analyse during that period whether the system can be fixed and whether it would be right to increase the isolation of the second pillar so that people can save more, so that people can have more pensions and more pensions than this system is supposed to now. Because when you look at 86 billion kunas, when a man would divide it into a number of users, or a payer, one million and 800 thousand, that eventually turns out to be an asset per insurance company of 50 thousand kuna. Of course it will increase even more because there are still a lot more payments than the payments, but at some point it will come to an end, and then I ask you when we have, I don't know, 150, 200 thousand kuna per fuse, when you divide it into let it be seen and demographically how it goes, but from retirement to expected age or life, it goes on for 15 years, it's 180 months, which we'll pay 1,500 kuna, and people will save 1500 kuna from what they've saved the whole working century. And that's why I think it's important here to talk about it, I think it's important that pension funds talk about it, that people don't get surprised and that we all don't surprise ourselves together that the old intergenerational solidarity system may have had in some part and more pensions for, say, those who have the lowest wages today and are paying into a mandatory pension fund. So if someone has a gross salary of 5000 kuna, they're going to pay 250 kuna a month, and now some bills, how much he's done, how much he's paid, how much he's made, that contribution is going to fall from 6.7%, and we're going to end up with what I just told you, pensions that aren't going to be adequate. They're a non-sustainable attitude. And that, in my opinion, is very important to talk about here and ask the legislator to see how this problem comes down, that's a question that the secretary of state has to take into account and what answers he's looking for. These dazzling ideas to get that money back into the budget, that our assets we've saved the last 15 years again to say, nationalized, I don't accept. So the SDP counseling club doesn't accept it. We are looking for a model by which people will be able to save and by which they will have after their working life I would say, a dignified life and a dignified age, not that we have a situation as we unfortunately have in Croatia today, that people have pensions of 2 and below 2 thousand kunas, and a lot of them not so much. And here too, Madam Secretary of State, I have to say that it seems to me that the pensioners are the last concern of this government, given that the 12 kuna increase at the monthly level in the past year, not that it's not decent but it's embarrassing and on this side I think that this part of economic growth that is now being achieved in Croatia, and this year it's planned to be more than it was in 2016, it needs to be used maximum to improve the standard of Croatian pensions and that the average pension is more than it was, and what we're looking for as the SDP Representatives Club to be 50% of the average salary, so at this point is 400, 500 kuna more than we have now. And there's no alternative and there's no alternative, I'd say an apology can't be, the pensioners didn't deserve this treatment in society and status in society, the pensioners deserved to live more dignifiedly, and that the state took a little more care of them because no one can say that 12 kuna average increase at the annual level is something or 0.57% is something that says that this country is taking care of pensioners. As for once again, in conclusion these funds have different funds, I would truly like more people to be informed because I feel the same is true of peace here, that a cake has been shared between societies, and there are simply no activities, it's all going on I'd say that the current is carrying you. Oh, no? Very few people change their societies. Most of it is arranged by the lot, the system of size. So here I think once every year when a report like this is or when I get home to an accounting unit, but now more would you change your company or not? But as soon as people don't think about it, it means they're not informed enough and they're not aware it's their money, and it doesn't matter if someone had a 6% or 12% contribution and it doesn't matter if someone invested 72% in the state or 40% in the state. So, each of us has some preferences and I'd like it, I'd like to see it as our fellow citizens as their own money. And then it wouldn't occur to people if they were to suggest to anyone the idea of going back to the state budget together, that the state would solve not knowing five years of funding with that money that the citizens have saved over the past 15 years. So a little more information, a little more stories about it, a little more awareness of citizens that these pensions will depend on the work of these pension funds. A little more to think about is that the state is no longer the tallest, that is, one who will be willing to pay the most. Because if we paid 6.7% a year ago now we're paying 3%, it's only in itself clear that there's no more money here and for offerings like the last years. So here we need a little more discussion and a little more education of people and people's consciousness, especially in this part of it. I'm not happy if both the funds and the societies are lurking in that business in a way that's okay. But in 15 years, there will be problems. Someone may not be in this place because they will retire, but on the other hand, these societies and the state will have to give answers why pensions are not at the expected level at which they should have been when they moved into the whole project. So, I'm saying that the separations are too small. They should be increased and new alternative investment solutions should be sought. So what we've had in the last 15 years is probably not optimal anymore. You need to see where you can invest to make the offerings. It was an idea with highways, it was rejected as something unacceptable, although pension funds are still owned by all our fellow citizens. Perhaps some other infrastructure projects will continue to be built in Croatia's energy, power plants, anything that could enable it to be physical, long-term, cost-effective and that pensions can be paid to our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45356	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. First, he is a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45357	Well, dear colleague Maras, I listened very carefully to what you were saying. Once again, I stress that you expect the financial market to be a miracle, that it is a miracle and that it is enough that mandatory pension funds buy this or that and that through the contributions they want to achieve for the future of larger pensions. I repeat to you all, the financial market is connected with the real economy through the umbilical cord and has to follow it. If not, then the financial market has become a casino. I'm also surprised that you're saying you need to consider increasing payments to the second pillar. So if you have a dilemma about whether to increase it from 5 to 6 or 7 I suggest you increase it to 20 or cancel the first column, put it in the second one, so you can see how it is dusted in the financial markets. You'll make two, three times as much. Put everything in the other, so you can manage the little team. You're saying that the crazy ideas are that the money from the second pillar, not the money, but the personal accounts with the money that's in it because the same person has an account in both the first and second pillars, that's clear to you. So person A will just switch if she wants to. If he doesn't, he'll have to volunteer. Am I clear enough? So let it be one of the first pillars, and the other will be called voluntary, and let whoever can and will invest. And you're saying that would be harmful because money would go back to the state budget. So please, where is today the property of mandatory pension funds if not in the state budget? Who's going to pay tomorrow if not the state budget. So I'm telling you, this is a question to be decent logic, elemental logic. I don't want to understand that you don't understand. And you say one more thing, you'll accept the report. I'm not surprised, but that party that accepts this report cannot be forgiven for calling it the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45358	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45359	What does that have to do with ideology if someone accepts or does not accept the report? No, it doesn't matter. It has absolutely nothing to do with it. So this is a matter of logic and I don't know if you know it. The first pillar means a pillar of solidarity from which all pensions are paid, there is no name, last name, etc. So, I get paid and you and anyone who looks at us 15 percent goes into the pension payout budget for the intergenerational solidarity we've had so far. So, there's no special names there except that my account and my name pay that 15%. And as far as I'm concerned, I don't want anyone to take 5% of the savings I've had in the last 15 years and return to the state budget. Is that what you want? Is that what Miro Bulj wants? Although Miro already has a pension, I accidentally mentioned you, irrelevant. But people don't want it, it's their money. Now why would these 87 billion kunas that our country's money decide to return to itself? Well, it's a model that's unacceptable to me. What does that have to do with social democracy, left and right? It has nothing to do with the concept. So you're in favour of the state having greater influence and that the state controls everything but that led us to have pensions in Croatia today at 2250 kuna. I want pensions to be more. ... And I didn't bring you here, and as far as... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And I didn't lead you to it, you did, and here he said if someone brought us to it, then maybe you brought us, because you taught Minister Marić, because he said you were his professor. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've taught Minister Maric badly. So you taught Minister Maric a bad lesson. How much, how could you give him a passing grade, Mr. Lovrinović? So you're responsible for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45360	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45361	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, so when we talk about citizen education, you know how decisions are made with us, whether it's car responsibility insurance or in this case for fund selection. So I could see here from my example. I agreed to one fund because my colleague offered it to me. Anyway, that's how people decide. If a representative offers them, who they know, who they know, then decide. And I agree with you that few people know about it. But this more important topic that you've been saying, you've been talking about increasing pensions that are necessary in the Republic of Croatia, and I fully agree with you and, of course, the increase in minimum wage. Because if we take a minimum wage of 5%, it's really small payments that are paid in the second column. Perhaps if the law had defined 5%, it might be a good basis for it to be the minimum amount to be paid and that any employer can decide that, at least, if he can't increase the minimum wage, to increase the share that they pay to the employee by the second pillar, and that in this way the state enters as an active participant and that some other tax reliefs should be made to such an employer. Because really, these people, what they're going to have with 5% eventually, and we see that the first pillar of the day has more and more problems. And what the current state tells us in public, many pensioners today, and even those with 2,000 kuna pensions, are still helping their children and grandchildren. It's the defeat of this society. Still, those of these small pensions help to survive other household members who are already in the second and first, even in the second generation for them. And that is the problem that will not be solved if the economy is not encouraged, and the state there has to take proactive measures, so in terms of the increase and the minimum wage to make it happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45362	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45363	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar. I'm, I'm not, I'm not even talked into, I'm on the lottery, I'm gonna get company, and I'm here from the beginning, but I'm gonna say here I'm gonna change society, but I'm not gonna say which one I'm in and which one I'm gonna get into, not to make an ad to that society. But today I've been looking at some papers, I mean, people need to become aware that it's their money. Such discussions as Mr. Lovrinović had don't benefit anyone. It's an imaginary debate, like it's all someone's. No, it's your money, get your fingers off my money. It was either Mr. Lovrinović or Mr. from HDZ or Mr. Maric, which we will discuss about HBOR later today and about our money being thrown into the wind about Agrokor. Get your fingers off my money... You told Mr. Lovrinović that you wanted to take the money that in the personal savings of all our fellow citizens and put it on one cup. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what you said, get your fingers off my money. I've been saving it for 15 years, and I don't want the state taking it away from me again. And that's what I'm fighting. I think it's the right way. I fight to ensure that the state provides minimum, social standards to our pensioners, and that people have the ability to save and fertilize their pensions during their working days. So please, don't touch the money, millions and 800 thousand Croatian citizens, without any concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45364	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45365	Dear fellow Maras, I'm somewhat illogical, I understand what you've suggested, but I can't understand how to do it because you've suggested in some way that you should think about increasing, which means less revenue for the state budget for the next 5 billion, if it's 5%, increases by 10%, that's next income, 5 billion less. At the same time, you said that it was up to 50%, that's another 4 billion, that is, 4.5 billion more to pay off pensions and we're going to climb pensions to over 40 billion kuna, and we fell to pension incomes per, in which case, we'd fall to pension incomes below 15 billion kuna. So you know, I just have to tell you, there are a million and 200 thousand in Croatia. Where they are definitely unique, and this is not an increase in the allocation of 2 pillars on the burden of generation solidarity revenues to the state budget, i.e. on the burden of current transfers. But that's what I agree to talk about. I don't think pensioners are just the problem of the state. So there are employers who make very good profits in life, etc. They use a man and I don't say they throw him in the street, but they used their skills. Isn't it possible that they are invited or agreed on voluntary retirement savings or we can discuss that they contribute to 1% of the increase and separation by the second pillar? So, there are variations, we need to talk about them, I just warned that it's too big a new hole for me. If we could talk about those numbers I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45366	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45367	Thank you very much. You didn't understand me well, I said, I didn't say from 5 to 10, it's too much to make at once, but what I would like to warn you, it's a constant that sells to pensioners, so in this case probably to you who represent a party of pensioners and these associations that you mentioned that speaks to each other. Look when, well, it's not, it's not because money is being poured into the budget from all sides. If we cut the deficit and it stands below 3 or 3.5 billion kuna, and yesterday it was 8, and this year we're going to have a 5% growth of BPD, so there might be a deficit next year we're going to have a surplus, who knows. So did the pensioners not deserve to spend more than a billion a year in two or three years? Well, that's what I'm telling you, I didn't say tomorrow and I didn't say someone was selling stories that were necessarily related to each other. That's what you do. If you raise the isolation to 7%, 2% is compensated from the other side. What's the problem? I don't see any problem. The problem I see is that someone reduces the deficit or the economy rises, wages of course not enough, and on the other hand, pensioners get 12 kunas on average per year. I see the problem. And I have to warn you very loudly here. So I didn't think anything could be done overnight and it worked that way, but I think it's unacceptable if we managed to reduce the deficit at the expense of the economy so the pensioners wouldn't get anything. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45368	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45369	Dear colleague Maras, you keep repeating the mantra about how the pensioners got only 12 or 17 kuna. So which of us, starting from me and probably you, wouldn't want their parents to have a bigger pension after 40, 50 years of internships, not 2,300 as much as my mother does, and we're not really wondering what we're doing and what we've done. So in order to allow them to increase that amount, we as a Parliament, as responsible people, have to think about how we're going to change the methodology and way of calculating and replacing the coefficient that we're going to be able to increase that pension, assuming that we've created what before that, and that we've started the economy, that we've increased the number of employees, that we've increased the difference between pensioners and employees. It's key stuff, not if we made it happen this year. So this government and every other normal government wants to raise 5% and 10% of every pensioner preferably. So let us not talk about what is but how we can fix more and what are the mechanisms that we can build in order to achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45370	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45371	First, it's not a mantra that's a fact. I have nothing, I'm just repeating what you wrote two days ago, or Minister Maric in the budget report, meaning 12 kuna. What am I supposed to say now? That it's 20 kunas or 50 kunas when it's 12. And tell me how this interest of the government and the desire of the government manifests itself, is it manifested through the replica of Mrs. Peric in the Parliament or through an increase in pension? If it manifests through Mrs. Peric's replica in Parliament, then you're right, if it manifests through an increase in pensions by 5 or 10%, then I'm right because it's not working, it hasn't increased. So on the other hand, let's say, let's go from word to deed, but I don't know what that means to you, we started an economy, I don't know who you mean. You told me, I heard two, three times we started the economy, we got more employees all of us did it, I just don't know who you meant. If you mean HDZ, then you're wrong. If you're thinking maybe the real sector of the economy, something that's been going on for many years, then maybe you're right. I hope you didn't mean HDZ. Perhaps you've thought of that, unfortunately, that in the last year and a few days 100,000 people have left Croatia, is that what you might have thought? So you should be Mrs. Peric real. I'm just talking here, if we have room to help people, and at this point it's not working in Croatia. So 12 kuna pensions at the annual level increase every month is unworthy and insufficient, 2,250 kunas of the average pension of which hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens have below and below 1,000 kunas with which they barely survive is unworthy and therefore I say that these things should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45372	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45373	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for this opportunity that I can address you all. The basic problem of this pension system in which these mandatory pension funds exist is that, ultimately, we call reform of the pension system, there will be fewer pensions. So what the average person is interested in is not whether the pension system is going to have 1,2,3 or 100 pillars. The average man wants to know what his pension will be, whether it's bigger or smaller. The peace reform that was made where people are part of the voluntary, part of being forced into that second pension column, led to what? It led to their pensions being less. And now, you're probably wondering why. The answer is simple nature. In fact, pension funds are 70% and more of what they have invested in government bonds, which means over 70%. What does that mean? This means that the state will again finance those pensions. So you're just actually putting those as middlemen and why? Because they pick up a fee of 3.5%, let's say, on an annual basis. You know what 3.5% means. And you work 30 years or 40, they'd want to work to death, and every year those intermediaries take 3.5%, 3.5%, 3.5%. And their investment in shares is in their nature such as to bring losses, as they bought in the capitalisation of Ledo, shares, essentially bankrupt companies. And the other thing they did, that government debt will never be able to pay back, and they know it themselves. And unless there is a write-off, it will necessarily come to the fact that the state will simply as in Greece, simply for the euro of debt, get half the euro. So it can happen that in 30 years, ladies and gentlemen of the state simply says, look, we're not able to pay off what we've committed, like we have to restructure, restructure, this, this, what, and as in Greece, we simply have to split that debt. And the property funds are automatically reduced by half that and pensions. Unfortunately, because of these negative movements and fees taken by the funds, it eventually came to people with time, although they are constantly paying even lower amounts for pensions. In their name, money is becoming less and less because the system is simply bad. What the Living Wall is proposing is that the pension system be returned to a state that was prior to these mandatory funds. And that is not the point of it wanting to be funds or not, but the goal is for people to have bigger pensions. And if those funds are the reason why people have fewer pensions, they should be abolished. Why would some private funds of Raiffeisen, Erste, take commissions on our pensions? Why? And we have fewer pensions. See how much money they take for themselves and how much they give for pensions. Look, compare those numbers. You'll see it's not about a small amount. And that it actually happened to the so-called. outsourcing, something that should be in the public sphere and domain. Why is that? Well, you see. According to the information I've heard about the personal pension system is actually partially privatized, let's use that term because it's what the creditors were looking for. So let's say the World Bank lends credit to the state and then conditiones we give credit if you privatize the pension system. And the purpose of this privatisation of the pension system was essentially not to benefit the pensioners but to give private entities power over a large amount of money. And now what's going on? Be careful what conflict is of interest, you have an example. Share some Erste Bank fund and you have a mandatory pension fund from Erste Bank, you can have a market situation where the poor shares of Erste stock fund buys Erste pension fund. They simply want to get rid of their stock funds from these bad stock banks and, as buyers, pension funds will appear. And they're actually getting rid of those bad assets, moving it, actually, let's just paint the cat in the bag, that cat in the bag, they're simply transferring it to future pensioners. The reason we can't support the Labour Report is because the basic concept of which the funds are based is wrong. And what did the funds essentially tell the citizens? The funds told citizens like this, say, you see the economy growing, stock values growing very quickly and those investing in shares will make a profit. And now we're going to make these pension funds and we're going to buy shares and the profits are going to be 20% a year and we're going to take 3.5%. That's how people pictured the role of those pension funds, the mandatory ones. But what happened? It happened that the assets of the funds were going down, not up 20%. And despite these catastrophic results, commissions were taken. In my opinion, funds should be financed not in a way that takes 3.5% independently of their work. Because whatever they do, whatever losses they make, they'll take 3.5%. But you should say at the annual level, the share of the gain is a certain percentage to us. And then the funds are motivated to make a profit. And this is how they earned or lost for the pensioners, as they say, neither in their pockets nor out of their pockets. So ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the reasons, very important reasons for not accepting this report. But unfortunately, our citizens still don't understand or understand the thought, they don't understand the importance of this topic. And as important as the topic is, Minister Maric himself tells you that the pensions of future pensioners will be 25% less. And what does that mean in practice? So you can have the situation for 5 years to introduce the euro and all costs rise 25%. It's a moderate assessment. And the incomes and pensions of people fall 25%, so what are these people going to live on? Is anyone asking themselves that? What will all the users of the soup kitchen be? Live on welfare? It will come to the fact that those who have worked fairly for years, and have taken away, into the retirement system, who, let's say it in a picturesque way, will be deceived, and eventually, will be executed, will be bankrupt. It is the sad fate of our country's citizens, when they grow old, or in a pension system like this. Our hope is that the pension system will change in a way to get back to the old, that is, to increase pensions and these private entities that make money on the work of people, or on their pensions, to move out of, to say, to get out of the game, simply to make more money for pensions and less for some, I don't know, stockbrokers, hedge fund managers, etc. And so on, here we go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45374	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45375	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Pernar. I almost want to give up because it's so much said, but there's one thing I have to fix. Therefore, for the amount of pensions whether the total pension will be greater or less in 10 or 20 years, only mandatory pension funds will be responsible. So they are responsible only for that part of the success of managing the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have their savings. But the amount of pension depends on how many jobs we will have, how many people will be employed at a certain time, how many people will receive wages under the grain, below the table in net amounts. That depends on the amount of the total pension. I want you to know that that part of retirement is 2/3 of pensions, pension contributions. And if he devastates and doesn't pay, then the pensions will certainly be less. We already have pensioners from the first pillar with 27% of the allowance today, so what everyone is equal to, we have less pensions from year to year for those entering the pension system because in the past 25 years there has been a lot of things in the labour market. There was a net payoff, there was a hand, there was everything. So we can talk today about everything and everything, spread the story, but we haven't gotten into the essence of the pension system problem yet. So I recommend that we should talk about these reports and at a special debate we should talk about what the causes are, which is the consequences of small pensions. Of course I'm the first to wish what Mr. Sanader said was that pensions would be 70% of the average salary in 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45376	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45377	Dear colleague Hrelja, I agree with you in part. Partly because you pointed to a paradox. And the paradox is that even though 3/4 of our retirement is going to the first pillar, we're going to get less 2/3 from the first pillar. Look at the paradox. If we give 75% of our pension to the first pillar, then 75% of our future pension should come from the first pillar, but that won't happen. Instead, that deficit should make up for the second pillar. But it's visible from the plane that the second pillar won't do it. They won't, and eventually, the pensioners will dig through the trash. And as for the number of employees, you must be aware that this failed economic policy is equally responsible and the SDP government is not only guilty because ultimately, anyone can make a mistake but then someone else who can correct the error comes. The SDP promised to make a revision of conversion and privatisation, it did not, the reform of the monetary system did not either. The reform of the monetary system has not been made. You're right, you never promised that, but until the exchange rate policy changes, there's no production of jobs. And in the end, you now realize that there are anomalies in the pension system. But you were part of the government that could correct that anomaly, you were. You could have said illogicality, but you didn't do it. And it actually all comes down to nothing but, unfortunately, empty words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45378	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Pernar, I appreciate your discussion and concern for the pensioners, and here I come from the education system where I know my colleagues with 40 years of training work at school, have three thousand kuna pensions, and I believe that it is a group in society that has suffered perhaps the greatest burden of this crisis and has been betrayed by all the political options that have ruled. However, this debate of yours, I think, agrees with one of your thesiss that you presented less than a year ago, which I think is scandalous, which is to deny the older than 65 years the right to vote. So did you change your mind because I think it's a very dangerous thesis on age discrimination? In addition, it is the only way that these people, in their own voice, decide in some way about their fate, because they choose people who stand up for their rights. So are you still standing by this thesis or have you changed your mind?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45380	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar, noting that we have gone quite far from mandatory pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45381	Your Honor, Mr. Sladolev, thank you for your question. But there's a game called a broken phone. So one person hears one thing and carries the other. Then that next person in the chain hears the second, says the third, and in the end you say Mr. Pernar you said you shouldn't vote over 65 and you didn't actually hear my statement in person, and you couldn't hear it because I didn't make that statement, unfortunately. That's lucky for me, unfortunately for you. And if you want to know what I said, listen to what I said, listen. And I said it doesn't make sense that someone who has meaning in Austria can vote 16 years old. I said that as far as the state of mind and consciousness is concerned, a person older than, say, 90 years of age is more sclerous than a 17-year-old person. Both of these people have the right to hear their voice. And what I was saying wasn't going to take away from the pensioners the right to vote, but to give young people 16 and 17 the right to do so because I believe that young people are the ones who should shape the future of our country and are unjustly excluded from the political process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45382	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45383	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Pernar. So it's actually impossible to talk about the second pillar or compulsory pension funds without talking about the first pillar because it's about the law of merged vessels. It wasn't an accident. There since the 1990s with the emergence of privatisation or privatisation robbery whatever you want, it has happened that many people have been sent to early retirement. It even encouraged people to leave and privatize not only money but jobs to be destroyed. That's the problem of privatisation in the most part, not that someone took a company that was social until then, but because it was destroyed. The growing number of jobs, people are retired and in fact, in 2000, in 2002, I don't know when thinking about it because this system is becoming unsustainable. There's just no money left for retirement. And then he moves on to that model to introduce a second pillar, to allow at least future pensioners to pay something on their personal savings. That's the meaning of the second pillar. Now, is that enough? We have had a crisis since 2008, and then the economic situation has deepened further. So this relationship between the retired and the number of employees has fallen further. So we don't have enough money in the first pillar. And now that my second column is lifted as you suggest, if we go back to the first pillar, I don't know what's important to change. The money is still missing, and there will be fewer until the economic situation changes to the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I think you might be chasing the causes and consequences now. It was just in the second pillar because the first pillar, with only the first pillar, is unsustainable, and you are now proposing that we return only to that column. That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45384	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45385	Dear colleague Sagar, I understand your point, I understand that there is no money in that state pension system. But the main reason why there's no money is because people don't work enough. And if you're interested in what's causing not enough people to do without a problem, you can easily analyze how people don't work, because there's no production economy. So the production companies are going down. And then the question is, why can't the production economy work with us? And your answer is because the course is unrealistic, because import goods are cheaper than domestic and that's the consequence of exchange rate policy. It's Borislav Skegro and the entire HDZ team. They tied the exchange rate to the euro and swore that always import goods would be cheaper than they should be. And consequently there has been a breakdown and a production economy and means labour markets. And now what's going on. SDP when he was in power could have said ok. We see that this exchange rate policy has a poor effect on the economy, we see that exchange rate policy leads to an increase in imports, a collapse of domestic production, and thus the disappearance of jobs, but it has not done so. You've been in the SDP for many years and you've been able to object to them and thus solve the problem of a small number of workers, but you're not. Unfortunately, you've changed the party now, you're in MOST, but that's not the problem. The problem is that MOST is not in favour of changing the course policy either. So I suggest we fight together to change our country's monetary policy. And I have nothing personal against you and I would like you to succeed in politics, to make MOST succeed in politics, but in a way that advocates the common good of all people. And if you are not in favour of monetary reform, for changing the exchange rate policy Unfortunately, we're all going down together. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45386	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45387	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, just before the story was how to help our pensioners. This way we work, we certainly won't help them. I understand the funds. I know they're doing their job like everyone else in Europe, but I know something else. What Maras says is you have to raise 5%. Who? The craftsmen? The businessmen? And I'm a businessman who's failed in this country, who should be investing in funds and pension funds and bringing the pension fund into good shape so that pensions can be paid off. But we don't create, we don't work in that area. In Croatia, the state should be at least 300-500 thousand jobs in order for pension prospects to grow, we will not discuss it, we do not need it. The most important thing is to have arrests, in state-owned companies, in politics as we are ourselves, as you as a young man at the age of 25 entered politics, and normally joined the state budget and so we will live well and talk about a people so that we can save this people. It's not like this, gentlemen. The people can save 40,000 crafts closed in the Croatian state, more than 10,000 in my Slavica went dairy farm, they introduced fiscal registers, the other day I listen to the story, that some baker is closed at sea, his fine is 30,000 kuna and a month's closed bakery. Yes, 30,000 kunas certainly to pay but to work and to have his inspection every five days coming, re-punishing him if he does. It's no use being closed, because then five or ten workers don't work. Gentlemen, let's do rationally to think in this country, not populist, non-party, not people who came here just to take the money, but people who have to send messages from here that we shouldn't work with businessmen, small craftsmen who need a chance. One who works, she needs a fiscal bill, God forbid she'll get rich or some little craftsman, a master with 1-2 employees. No, they should be raised, and when they're rich, then we'll be rich, and then we'll bring in fiscals later and all the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45388	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45389	Dear fellow Minister Misic, I agree with your observation that I am an arrest, that we are all here in the Assembly by definition those who receive large salaries and live at the expense of the state and we, whatever we are, are essentially arrests. However, there are two categories of people among the earrings. A category of arrests thanks to its people for this great salary, benefits and privileges in a way to fight for it, to try to point to the problems of that people, to share its fate as much as possible. On the other hand, which stands to change this slave system, i.e. to change the exchange rate policy, to start production and jobs. And the other group of arrests, unfortunately, only accepts wages, raises their hands and does nothing, neither requires nor conditions their support to the government by changing monetary policy that certainly leads us to ruin. And it's on my heart, and I'll tell you the truth, my colleague Škibola supported Mr. Jandrokovic as the President of the Parliament, and God forbid that he eventually comes to the phase law of the RBA cooperatives. I would also like to, so I don't see anything controversial about you supporting the HDZ government, but give them a condition, change monetary policy, improve the conditions for employers etc., unfortunately, you give support as they say to Bianca and that's a problem that is obvious... Unfortunately. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45390	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken... Then we're going to an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We only have one, respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45391	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretary, representatives of pension funds, here all the time I've been listening to debates on behalf of clubs, your colleagues, your reports and asking several basic logical questions, and certainly every man would ask you that, and that's what should be the most understandable and what any citizen or any one who pays into your funds should do, i.e. who is a taxpayer to pension funds, to answer these questions. In recent days, the people have been listening to these stories, so here, a few days ago we had a discussion about banks, i.e. about fees and fees where in Croatia the state of the bank, which are also your founders and owners, foreign banks or most foreign banks, in which way, through the fee of the smallest and commissions, they demand from our citizens 4.5 billion kuna per year from Croatia. So 4.5 billion. We're not talking about interest, we're not talking about other bills here, bills and stuff. Only 4.5 billion. I'm curious to know how many fees are in absolute amounts at the annual level and to answer me at the annual level of each of your funds, at the annual level, I'm interested in having them answer to the public, because yet these citizens are paying in these funds, and surely you have huge fees, so annually, about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and that people need to know. We need to know that what Professor Lovrinović said to me remains unclear and you did not make it clear as if you were paying a kilo of meat in the meat shop 50 kunas, and you get 50 kunas, you 40 or 80 blankets or 70 blankets. Explain that case lipo, understandably, 5% of citizens are paying, and you're giving it up means 3.8% back, which is a huge damage to our citizens if Professor Lovrinovic said well. I don't doubt that, Professor. Lovrinovic did not say with his experience, he did not say unverified information but said it was verified, and you did not give the correct answer enough. I think our public and our citizens should get accurate information. Also the information here during this debate which is a commendable debate from which it can be said what previous representatives have proposed to be a thematic session is a more serious debate where people should be involved from the profession and that this problem of pension funds should be due to the social well-being and decline of Croatian pension funds and threats and our population and future pension beneficiaries and those new employees who will pay, to explain to me the notion that the Croatian state is in charge of pension funds bonds in order to repay its debt and pension funds are financed by Croatian citizens. What are the interest rates, what are the losses and what is the interest of the state, and what are the funds? I'd like to ask that question if we know the meaning of what citizens are paying to cost the state five times more expensive through interest, borrowing, repayment of debts. It is very important to me to clarify myself as a man who is not of this profession, but as a parliamentary representative whom the people have chosen here, you must individually clarify it all. We still have a number of questions as to why I'm asking this? The fact is that a demographic issue was raised also mentioned by fellow Lovrinovic and other depopulations. The extinction of many of our landscapes, the collapse of industry, the collapse of many branches of agriculture, and we certainly came this way for development under Romania, and in the EU we represent, mainly the top people of Croatian politics and our diplomacy, and also the prime minister, that we have many friends in the EU who are obviously friendly in all matters to Croatia. So we have one piece of information that last year 56 thousand are less unemployed, but statistics in Germany show that all 56 thousand, that's reduced employment, but all 56 thousand is in Germany, these are statistical indicators. And I will repeat again, in the last four meanings in 2012 there were 225 thousand Croatian citizens in Germany. 332 thousand is at the end of 2016 anything means an increase of 107 thousand of our people, but it is without statistical data from other countries of Ireland where the vast depopulation is mainly on our most part of the Republic of Croatia, it is 2/3 of Croatia from Slavonia, from Like, from Dalmatia Zagora. Do the funds, this is a question, have the ability of these funds to invest in Croatia in the Croatian economy? Do you have any kind of project, yet you are the most professional, yet you get from these funds, much more than that pensioner who pays his entire life and certainly no amount of profits left in Croatia. They go to third countries, and if they invested out of all banks and funds that money, the profit of compensation, interest in Croatia would now be 100,000 people in Croatia who would move in and want to live in the return of Croatians from the diaspora. There's something wrong with me saying this as a representative, as a man who talks on a daily basis with laymen, with people ordinary citizens who don't understand what's going on in the most beautiful state in the country that has the greatest potential of tourism potential, seas, fields, mountains, everything, rivers, clean water, clear water, it all comes down to compensation, to good life in funds, banks that do, however, it's your job I don't mind you, but it's foreign funds. These are funds that obviously do not feel any Croatian man in person, that there is a need for agriculture, that a health care service is needed, that what could be invested is needed. It's still our citizens' money. You have your own philosophy of business, that's your interest, but is that the interest of our citizens? So these basic questions, I've put this on human level, again and again, without having anything against you, but this isn't good. I can't support this or support it if we can't be by development beneath Romania, we can't have our pensioners have much less pensions than they've been paying for, I can't support this. And everyone who's been invited to participate in this has to admit this isn't good, and here needs a thematic session where the profession will be included, so we'll listen to professor. Lovrinovića, we will include other people in some kind of public debate so that we can see relevant indicators, not through the terms of professional blurry reality, and the only person who pays for it is our citizen, but at the expense of the future of their children. Is the fact that the results are not bad, but the most painful self is this demographic image mainly due to the withdrawal of the money where the underlying culprit is, I repeat, HANFA, CNB which are financial stability controllers through the Stability Council where both finance ministers and the former are, there are none here and currently included, where the CNB is involved, where the HANFA as a body was involved and they have done nothing about these commitments to control it, to see if it is necessary to borrow, repay debt by borrowing from what the Croatian people paid at the expense of the Croatian budget, the damage of smaller pensions, health care, education. We're under Romanian gentlemen. Money is sucked through fees, commissions, bonds. I'm not an expert, but the fact is that something is wrong in the Croatian state. And I'm asking you this as a representative, as a man who's got a number of votes from the neighborhoods where people come out, they run away and we have a huge potential for development. I'll just tell you about the Cetitian province, the Dalmatian Zagora as much as could be invested, which we have potential. However, there is no initiative from you other than borrowing, debt and money being put into someone's pocket but against citizens' interests. Here, please answer these questions for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45392	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First is the honourable representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45393	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you encouraged me when you said there were 330 thousand Croats in Germany, right. That's right. And 330 Croats are paying into a fund in Germany. And those 50, and if it's gone, thousands of Croats are also paying into the German fund. And why did they leave? Well, because the conditions in Croatia aren't made. And why aren't they made? Because we are constantly rebelling, let's not let anyone invest in the Croatian state. You have your Hajduk, I know you mention it a lot, to privatize it, you don't give it to anyone, because it's your Hajduk. Whose Barcelona is real Madrid, whose Manchester? Someone invested, but it's Spain again and Hajduk would be ours or Dinamo to buy anyone and invest in the investment. We don't let investors come because it says it's ours. And we want to get a job. So how? Can you make a hotel? I can't. Can I? I can't. But someone can. So they're going to invest a billion or 100 million, 200 or 300, and they're going to hire 100 people in Dalmatia on our islands can make a thousand hotels. And right now we have 100,000 workers. We can do so in Slavonia and in Zagreb and everywhere. We need to know what we're doing. We don't really know, we're just talking, we're complaining. The average salary is about 7,000 kuna. Which firm it's in. Do these merchants have averages? Do any masters have averages? Do the builders have an average? They don't. They have people sitting in air-conditioning, in offices, and that's average. And who earns their wages for them? It's those people I mentioned. And that's what I'm talking about. Gentlemen, let's put a little hand on the forehead and think about who's making money, agriculture, factories, farms. It doesn't produce this Parliament, it doesn't produce some administrations that, thank God the crime has... and I hope that in this government, it will solve it. But gentlemen, let's start working rationally.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45394	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45395	My colleague Misic, I would much agree with you, football wouldn't, football mafia would mostly not, crime would not, and you mentioned the coasts, and the concession law itself speaks about it all. So you need to be similar, and that's why the young leave. The young are leaving you, again I will mention, there is one reason, of course, thousands of reasons you've listed, the young leave what these pension fund-paying fees or bank-possess don't stay in the Croatian state and 4.5 billion from small fees. And the commission is not invested in the Croatian state, but is invested where their mothers are from, because these are just outposts and they suck out that money, only 4.5 billion kunas and invest in their own countries. To invest in Croatia, these people would not be in Germany 100 thousand, 56 thousand last year and by investing that in Croatia, only these fees, we will not talk about other issues, monetary policy problems, financial instability caused by the very CNB and the Stability Council that is obliged to control it, and even compensation for these funds, let us be realistic, do not stay in Croatia, do not invest in Croatia. There's no one against investors. For what? Because if only banks earn 4.5 billion kuna on small fees and 9 kuna on keeping accounts for everyone in Croatia, it's huge, but they don't accumulate and invest here, but they invest in Germany, where the bank and Italy are and that money opens jobs. Our money that they took, and the money that they owe, our bonded state from the pension fund, and our citizens, you're paying into that fund where those through interest, they only turn our money and earn their profits and certainly do not invest in Croatia from what you and your workers are investing in this fund. And of course we have the dairy industry that's gone down, we have everything that's gone down, and of course it's invested mostly or similar or that money that's gone, it's gone out, but it's our money. Only at banks, at the fees of 4.5 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45396	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45397	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, you have raised several important questions. First of all, the departure of people from this country, here's the other day on the media, it could be heard that Germany has claims for some workers, about 700 thousand jobs. The German economy has grown and I think this situation around our people's departure is going to be even worse. As far as we're concerned, there's going to be a topic on the agenda tomorrow, and I'm going to have to say, when we talk about the blocked ones, that's another problem. These people can't right now and they're even telling you they're not going to go to Dalmatia, people aren't going to work because their account is blocked and they can't. And these people now, where they are in that debt slavery, they no longer pay in the first pillar, or in the second pillar, anywhere. I just can't and that's one of the big problems we're facing. But what has been warned by the International Monetary Fund representative now in Dubrovnik and the prime minister and finance minister, the economy minister, the necessity of implementing reforms. We must face reforms as soon as possible, reforms have begun but not in the form and scope of what should be. And often not in the sense that you should. Because people, people need to be convinced that reforms are for their own good. But in this way, they are not for their own good. Let us take one example. I saw on a man's facebook who's 25 years old, hasn't had his sick days yet, accidentally caught him in his spine on the weekend, went to the doctor for an ambulance, gave him an injection. And you know why he went to the doctor for an ambulance? So that Monday he could go to work, he didn't go to remove the stains. And then the doctors told him he had to pay for the checkup. It's not a reform. A man pays in health insurance. It's the same thing about retirement insurance, if a man's been paying for years, he doesn't have a pension in the end, what exactly is that really about? So reforms must go in the direction in which they will benefit citizens and not in the direction in which citizens will be even more pronounced, robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45398	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45399	Yes, the system has put people in chains, blocked them, those who have children, will not be able to have textbooks, because the state has what is in Zagreb in other parts, but in Germany free textbooks, they cannot have in us, people literally cannot provide their basic resources that is a textbook, mainly in undeveloped areas. It's only for me, the key problem, which is that the money that our citizens are paying into the pension funds or any other fund, or the bank accounts are being sucked out. And he goes to third countries and every year... I'm interested in how much the funds are taken from the citizens' oil, and the banks four and a half billion kunas a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means 20 years of budget, the state budget, and 1.5% of GDP annually. Now imagine what the state needs 4 and a half billion kunas to have, how much it should be done to make that much money, GDP. So the big money's being sucked out... and who sucked out their money by keeping 9 kuna bills monthly interest rates, interest rates that couldn't work in Austria or Italy, they worked for our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And people are in chains. From farmers, workers, all pensioners, so the Croatian state is in chains man is in chains, and of course that the money they sucked into investing in their countries and now our young people in one direction with families are going to the country, with our money sucked out, must work where they work, and we leave empty space for those who suck out money to become owners and our children to be their slaves, on our country, and that is the biggest problem, so this is a serious topic that needs to be seriously discussed. I am not saying this as a man who is an expert living in these parts every day, talking to people from experience, listening, here just before Professor Lovrinović, I have heard you all, and I have noticed that you would not support this at any cost because we are currently below Romania and the question of the survival of the Croatian state at this point, mainly a demographic picture in 2/3 of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45400	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45401	Dear fellow Bulj, here I am pleased that you have said with a saying that you will not support this report, I hope that not all MOSTs will support this law, but can you please comment on how to, not law, excuse this report, can you comment on that because you have spoken a little more precisely, more clearly, why now SDP and HDZ together want to support this report, isn't that a little strange? Isn't it strange that there aren't any former finance ministers and people who were just when this system was created, right? It can't be noticed here. And one more question, please answer. Does it seem to you that politics is getting more and more involved in the business policy of mandatory pension funds, I mentioned Borovo, Petrochemy, Malta, not, it is enough for the prime minister to call for a conversation and say listen, you from the fund, to have a nice chat, you should save this, invest, you know, etc., and we know that they're dealing with losses already, right? So aren't these funds because of the influence of politics some kind of bank of a pig policy? So, first question why SDP and HDZ want to support this, why are there no of their more visible representatives involved in all this? And they needed pension funds and their administration to protect them from, I'm protecting them from the demands of politics because these people who run... society, it's not easy for them either when they call someone, a prime minister or some minister that they say they won't, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about investing in Agrokor, you wouldn't want to comment, here are these two questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45402	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45403	Professor, I've been listening to you and you've really brought up a few key problems, but you've noticed that there are no former ministers who have actively stayed to participate in this debate, especially now to hear the answers to these questions that you've asked during your presentation, in fact, I've also noticed and I've listened to both sides, and the fact is that HDZ and SDP have been able to handle this together, i.e. Not parties and members, but politics, yes. Because this is the situation in which we are also in matters of pension funds and policy influences in certain investments, when they order you to invest in what company, it means that it is an order, that it is the influence of the EU's direct policy funds, i.e. What citizens pay for. Therefore, this joint project was both HDZ and SDP governments while natural resources were being destroyed, while companies were being significantly destroyed, while shipbuilding was being destroyed, while everything was being destroyed. It's just that they're through these funds while the banks have been destroying themselves that they've been capitalizing, they've simply been cooking together, the summits, I'm talking about the tops of the parties and I'm not talking about membership, and I'm surprised and it's amazing why the finance ministers aren't more active here because at least 900% know more than I do, because I know you're an expert, that you're dealing with this problem, it's a profession, but it's amazing why there aren't even a little bit of a mustache, as you called them the other day, but this is a serious topic, and that if you admit mistakes, there's no one there to attack, we need to admit, but it's expected that after a long time, after reports of pension funds, which the citizens are interested, of course, and people who are interested in their future that you should be here and the influence of politics as a bunch of pigs should not be... It should be a business policy that will enlarge what citizens give. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45404	Thank you, too. In the end, we have Mr. Damir coat of arms president of the Raiffeisen Pension Fund. I'm sorry, I read a sentence further than she wrote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45405	So here's the thing, I don't have any intention of using 30 minutes for this late-time exposure and in front of a pretty empty booth like this. But I need to make a few comments in terms of one part and answer the questions asked, one part of the clarification of these things. To answer first, I was offered by a respected Parliament representative, Pernar, who unfortunately is not here, and for some objective information to the public, I have to notice that he somewhere, one 15 times said that the pension fund fee rate is 3 and a half percent which is absolutely not true and does not correspond to the truth. It's very clear in our reports. So the pension fund management rate in 2016 was 0.419% and in 2017 it was further reduced by 7% and is 0.39%. Such a fee rate is among the lowest rates of compensation among pension funds in Europe. To illustrate this, it is illustrated in our report very clearly. But as an additional illustration, recent years in Britain exist in some way and the legislative action to try to lower pension funds fees below 1%. And so we are significantly already below 0.5% and even from our resources, so from the company's resources we finance the business of the central register and our regulator. We participate, of course, in financing, not just us. So an effective fee in 2016 would fall to some 0.35%, which in world terms is very competitive to say so. In absolute terms, this is also very clear and included in this joint report and in individual reports on companies that we have presented. So the incomes from managing the funds of all pension societies were 420 million kunas. With the fact that I have to point out that two societies run both mandatory and voluntary pension funds, so it's probably level, now I don't have that information exactly for volunteering. But probably around 360 million kunas is part of the mandatory pension funds. So that part of the fee or something. I say, what? This is for last year, specifically for last year, and yet again in rough around 80 million kuna is again the compensation that pension societies pay to these two institutions whose services are used. Here's a very clear fact, but the fact that it's not hidden is very clearly written in our reports. So much for fees. I must say, however, that pension societies cannot create investment opportunities on their own, because on the one hand it would be a conflict of interest, and on the other hand it is definitely not our business. Our job is to identify investment opportunities, to value them, to value risks and to make investments based on such recognition. I also think that the structure of the pension fund investment that we presented clearly shows that pension funds have not even quite taken advantage of investment opportunities abroad. So what we invested in abroad is much less than what we could invest in abroad. So also Mr. Lovrinović, Dr. Lovrinović also said that in some ways our horizon and our ability to invest is from Tokyo to New York or something if I'm not mistaken. So we have at all times a dilemma whether to invest in Croatia or not. We necessarily have to invest a part of our assets in government bonds. At this point, they do not have to be Croatian government bonds anymore, but we are investing in Croatian government bonds and because we consider them justified for our investment, and on the other hand we believe it is definitely in the interest of portfolios and our members. And a stable demand for pension funds on the state bond market both in the country and abroad, and especially abroad, helps the Croatian state to be more favourable and in some way gives certain security to foreign investors who also invest in this form of property. Today, there was a lot of talk in the debate about the pension system and the development of the pension system in general. We cannot, of course, give as pension societies and pension funds an answer to all the problems of the pension system that exist in Croatia. So that problem of the relationship between pensioners and employees and the problem of employment in the country as such we do not even have the right to define such things, but we will be very happy to participate in all discussions on the pension system. And we think that our participation in the debates is welcome, but we're not taking on any privilege that we have to have a major word in this. It's just the other way around. We operate in accordance with the Croatian Parliament's will which is defined in the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia and that is actually the framework in which we operate. And while that is the case, we will also make our best efforts in the interests of our members, and I say in the context of everything that is set out in Croatian legislation. The peace funds do not represent all pension problems in the Republic of Croatia, but they are definitely part of the solution and the Republic of Croatia is in one advantage compared to some other countries in Central Europe and the West and the East because there is 25% of the social gross product in pension funds, which already marks us as a medium-developed country as regards the development of pension funds. The assets in the second pillar are definitely not lost but are in the accounts of our members and represent the potential for future pension payments. I think that the contributions of pension funds so far and now in a longer period are quite solid, meaning that the nominal something over 6%, and I think that only the nominal contribution can be compared to interest rates and so on, and pension societies will adapt to changes in the capital market and actively take care of the future allocation of funds. When we compare the rate of separation, interest rates and pension funds, then I'm afraid at some point we've mixed three different things. So if the withdrawal rate is 5%, all the allocations that enter the pension fund represent the property of a member who went out of his gross salary and on that property, which is inside, which is in the fund, are made, and these offerings, again, were nominally over 6%, realistically about 3.8 3.9%, which is in international comparisons and comparisons with some other financial parameters very solid. And it should be noted that this does not mean that the member is not in the account and what's in the principal, but that this is the capital that's earned, and that 6% is quite a solid offering, and I think it was necessary to put it this way as an explanation. I don't know if I've answered all the questions, I don't know if I've answered them well enough, but here's how much I've had to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45406	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. You can answer each replica together or for each replica separately or for all replicas, after all, after all the replicas at once, decide you. I'll call you and make up your mind. The first is the replica of Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45407	Thank you very much. This report is visible, and your answer needs an urgent thematic session, so here's a secretary that could make a proposal for a thematic session within the government and within the ministry, because it's obvious from the Fund's representative's reply it's visible and I'm sorry that the secretary doesn't respond to this that it's not your problem how many parliamentary representatives are in the assembly, it's us, whether it's going to be 1, 5, 10, 15 people doing their job in other places. I expected your answer and you said 360 million kuna for a fee, that means under 0.39 and before it was 0.42, and at the beginning certainly much more. That means from the draft fund, no less or less, it's gone out of the citizens' pocket for six billion kuna. It's not that little, 6 billion kuna, so it's a huge amount of money, taking more fees from your founders, banks, it's a huge amount of money leaving Croatia, and this really is a very important issue because it's not clear, you say, to invest in Croatia. Like you did not invest in renewable energy sources, where Croatia subsidized foreign investors per kilowatt of 42 June while this ordinary energy from the source is non-renewable 25 limes. For example, so the state subsidizes you twice as much as it is in the production of electricity, than it liked some foreign investor who takes us a billion and a half kuna a year. So this is how it would stay with our citizens, our funds, so there are ways and options, only you, under the influence of politics, direct money, as if it were a measuring bank of pigs. It doesn't matter which diameter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45408	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45409	Just for one thing, I wouldn't want to comment, just to warn that this calculation of 6 billion fees doesn't match the truth because pension funds started with 0 in the accounts at the beginning and this current state of account is the result of gradual growth over 12 years, so we can't start last year... So, let me just point that out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45410	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45411	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Grbavac, I will repeat once again, stress, I don't think it's clear enough, and especially because of the citizens who are watching this right now, you have an unprecedented advantage on the financial market, which is that you take and you don't give anything. And that's how it's gonna be at least another 10 years until the pension payment starts. So, fantastic position. There's no such financial institution. But that's reality. However, you were talking about contributions, and I'm saying now you see, the bigger your contribution to government bonds, the more that same employee will be the payer in the second pension column of your funds, he'll have to pay more to the state through taxes so that the state can repay you back to its bonds. This one that doesn't understand, then I won't comment any further. So, what is it? It's actually a chain wheel and that's not the answer. Why isn't that the answer? It is necessary, in particular, to address young people to focus on this, it is, so that the reform of the second pillar is so necessary because, already today and in the past years, 40% of pension payments are now due to the state to pay off the banks, to you, etc. So, if there is 40% missing in the first pillar, then the state must not allow the second pension rate to be paid to the same citizens who, after tomorrow, have the same duty to pay the greater contributions through you. So let's stop with one more, adopt with such images, adopt an elementary logic, I repeat, I am for private and voluntary pension funds, but let's separate what's public, which is private, which is voluntary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45412	Would you like to respond? No, no, no. Mr. Hrelja's third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45413	Dear Mr. Grbavac, I am still focused on possible solutions since we are in some way events have past us and I think it is necessary or I am interested in your opinion. I agree that you cannot initiate an amendment to the law, but according to the HANFA Act, your regulator can initiate certain changes, certain system corrections, not the pension system, but the second pillar system. And you can't be not interested in what it is to say in orbit, and that's one suggestion that those users of the mandatory second pillar need for years of deposit only in the first pillar to get 27% because it's just. So they have to be equal under the same conditions that they were. It won't improve much in total, they won't be new two-stage pensions as old, but they'll be much more acceptable than they are so far because the experience I've been talking about tells us that these two people, young people, are still the people who have gained the conditions for retirement at a loss of 800 to 1200 kuna compared to a one-stage pension where all the years get 27%. And I'm guessing that for at least 30 years, they've only made 15 payments to the first pillar, because 15 years are still going on in this second pension column. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45414	Thank you, too. And at the end of the fourth line, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45415	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's not a replica anymore. It's more of a matter of technical nature. Data on your account are obtained by a physical user, and the rights of a person can come through REGOS or e-Citizens system, whether there is another way for people to get data on their account or even in those extreme cases when they don't even know which fund they belong to. And is there a fund obligation to report to users once a year on their condition? I believe that in those reports... I've received and these reports alone don't exactly stand where their money was invested, but at least that report that the amount so far has been paid and how much have they achieved based on the growth of interest or all of this other? Here's a quick one, if you can answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45416	Excuse me, Mr. Grabovac, I'd like to give you my word. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45417	The official account report may be given to you by REGOS and is in your mailbox in REGOS, but the account status data can also be obtained in any pension society. The peace companies no longer have to, as they had to send written reports to all their members' addresses earlier. Some still do, some don't, but every member of the pension fund under certain conditions of secrecy means that someone else doesn't enter your pension account you have to have a certain way of identifying it through PIN and so on, but of course you can get information about it. If you don't have this information, then you can also ask through our col centers to be sent to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45418	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45419	Report on the work of compulsory pension funds: a) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. The Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds for 2016 is the applicant Erste d.o.o. The Management Company of the Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Fund. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 104 for, 20 abstentions and 5 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. b) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by PBZ Croatia insurance d.d. For the management of mandatory pension funds for 2016, the applicant is PBZ Croatia Insurance d.d. for the management of compulsory pension funds. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by PBZ Croatia insurance d.d. is accepted. For the management of mandatory pension funds for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 97 for, 21 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. c) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. for 2016, the applicant is Raiffeisen, a company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen companies for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. for 2016’. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 102 votes are for, 16 abstentions, 5 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. d) Report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2016. The holder is Allianz ZB d.o.o., a company for the management of compulsory pension funds. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2016 is accepted." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 102 for, 16 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45420	We are now moving to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for the EU for 2017. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered by the Parliament's dispatch. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the plan. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs, for the Justice, for legislation, for maritime, transport and infrastructure, for internal policy and national security, and you all have reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I think the secretary of state, Mrs. Zdravka Busic, will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45421	... Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] Allow me to present a plan to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis for the EU for 2017. As a full member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has, for the fourth year in a row, drawn up the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2017, which forms an integral part of the legislative harmonisation plan. This plan presents complete and timely information to parliamentarians on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2017 and which stems from EU membership primarily from our obligation to continue to take over the new acquis of the EU into national legislation. Effective enforcement of EU rules is important for all Croatian citizens because it affects their daily lives whether they are fundamental freedoms, food security and products, traffic safety or air quality and consumer protection. Effective enforcement of EU rules serves the public interest. The Member States are primarily responsible for the proper transposition, application and implementation of EU law. The uniform application of EU law in all Member States is crucial for the success of the EU, which is just based on the rule of law and relies on the right to ensure the implementation of its policies and priorities in the Member States. For this reason, Croatia is changing its legislation in parallel with other EU Member States to ensure that EU law is applied as effectively as possible in favour of its citizens. It is important to highlight the key role of the Croatian Parliament in this process, which is reflected in the adoption of national laws that take place and ensure the implementation of the new acquis. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis for 2017 on 29 December 2016. It is a one-year programme document that represents an effective instrument for planning and monitoring the takeover of the EU acquis. The plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal acquis for 2017 contains a total of 71 laws, which take over primarily the new acquis of the EU where Croatia is changing its legislation by means of active monitoring, the development of legal gains by the competent authorities of the state administration. In doing so, it is important to stress that work is being invested in ensuring the effective enforcement of existing EU law should be considered as important as working towards the creation of new EU legislation. In addition to this legislative harmonisation plan, it is an effective instrument that also has a preventive effect in relation to the procedures that the European Commission can take against Croatia because of infringement of EU law. In this connection, it is necessary to highlight the importance of timely taking over of the EU acquis because in the event that no legal gain is taken over in the national legislation against the Republic of Croatia before the EU court can be brought into action because of infringement of EU law and the final outcome of the case before the Court may also lead to the establishment of fines for infringement of EU law. Days and gentlemen of MPs, presenting a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis in the current year, I assess how the adoption of this document confirms the effective functioning of Croatia in the conditions of full EU membership as well as the promotion of national interests through participation in the creation of common EU policies. We can say that an effective and effective enforcement system has been established to ensure timely application, enforcement and enforcement of the EU acquis and to ensure adequate legal protection for citizens. In view of the key and irreplaceable role of the Croatian Parliament in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals, the Croatian Assembly is proposed to adopt this Plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for the current year 2017. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45422	I thank you but you also have one replica, so you will have the opportunity to speak yet. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45423	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary, Mrs. Bushic, with an assistant. The fact is we are talking about legislation, i.e. apply EU gains, harmonize for the sake of the well-being of our citizens as you have pointed out, comply with the rules. But the fact that you've listed the quality of better life, the safety of people, the quality of air, you've listed everything, traffic, better safety. I'm sorry she's not a minister here, but you can tell her that air protection is very important in implementation, so, for example, mention the Pera thermal power plant, such as 30 in Croatia, closed in Europe last year, that this chimney is 109 meters high, 700 kilos, 9 large, 900 kilograms of exhaust gas per second, of which 150 kilograms of CO2 in the largest clean water pool in Europe, that is the Peru Lake, or the Cetina River. So let her take it well, where we need to pass it on, it's a person close to us, and that very law, that law, it's referred to as the preservation of air, the environment and nature. You are familiar with this subject, purely from this because in the EU this very law applies and exactly the same energy sources, so 30 of them have been closed. So thermal power plants, combined thermal power plants that want to be built on the cleanest area of drinking water and springs. Please don't just let this be copied, corresponded, deluded public respect in public, here's a clean transfer to the minister and I'm sorry she's not here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45424	Thank you. I thanked you three times. Do you want to answer now or later at the end? After, in the end, thank you very much. [[I'll catch up with you later.]] Now that we have the committees first, will the committee reporter take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first Mr. Kresho Beljak, club representative of the HSS, has no right to lose. Mr. Josko Klisovic, he has it, the SDP counsel club, and he does not lose his right. He's keeping it straight while you're coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mrs. Secretary of State and Associates. We therefore have before us a plan to bring our legislation into line with the EU acquis, one by one very important document that we have adopted in the Assembly so far, and I see no reason why we should not do it this time, and here I can immediately say that the SDP club will support the proposal for harmonisation of legislation. This document is important and it shows the dynamics of taking over the EU acquis by the Republic of Croatia, and this is 4 years in a row from our membership in the Union. So far we have been one of the best countries in terms of taking over the European KIO, there we have been very effective and that efficiency should be kept and I, in this sense, commend, of course, and professional services at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which are working on it, but which coordinate all other state bodies that it is in its jurisdiction to make its part of the job and prepare the proposal to transpose the acquis into our legislation. I think we are doing this job well and it is clear that we can when we really want to when we recognize the importance of a particular topic for Croatia. I also see this document as a reform document because it de facto contains certain practical solutions important for Croatia, which we have come to together with other EU members in the talks, negotiations, with the help of the European Commission in Brussels, and which are then certified by the ministers each in their own competence in the form of the Council of Ministers. I am pleased to have at least a consensus on the implementation of these European reforms when we are not already on national reforms, and we see that the issues of implementation of national reforms are significantly lagging behind what is stated, or what is publicly expressed as ambition. Including, for example, curricula reform, where action plans are no longer known today, which is one of the key reforms that our country needs. In addition to the legislative harmonisation plan for the following year that you presented to us, and I think it is important and good, I think the Assembly should also get information on situations where the Republic of Croatia either violates the acquis or is being initiated against it by a pilot or an infrarement in order not to comply with the provisions of the acquis. We remember from the beginning of the year we had a discussion of the Committee on European Affairs, on the issue of the Law on Privatisation of the INA, where the Committee received promises that after leaving the Minister of Energy, it was then Minister Dobrovic in Brussels, to receive full information about the Croatian Government's positions in the procedure launched against the Republic of Croatia by the Commission. We have not received this so far, in the meantime, the minister has left the ministerial post, joined us here in the Parliament, but what is missing from the parliament is a clear review of the situation and a procedure that is possibly being conducted against the Republic of Croatia due to non-compliance with the acquis, and I think the Parliament should be informed and debated about these situations because very often there are some political decisions that Parliament should know a little more about or discuss. Whether in the form of a pleum, whether in the form of committee sessions, whether they are closed nature or open nature, it depends on the sensitivity of a particular issue, but I think that this is something that we should complete this plan that you present to us every year regarding the future period that we have some insight into Parliament which are the problems in implementing the acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45426	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, the implementation of the acquis, you said that we are at the top of the implementation, but here it may always be the easiest part, but that implementation, the key to the problem is implementation. We have to bring here daily, here you see that we would go on vacation, we are now daily discussing a dozen laws, and even in hours, at one hour per night very important laws such as the Ombudsman for children or the Regional Development Strategy Act by 2020. But the question is, when we implement it all, we can bring here 10, 15 a day and discuss the law. And what next? What a state of reality it makes me, across all segments. Here I am earlier on traffic was implemented. In terms of traffic safety, air, environment, nature. We're all talking about nature, the environment. Here's today's national park our system has allowed to concreteize Plitvice. The defenders here for a month already have down in the tent they defend as '01. that our national symbol, one wealth not only Croatian, but also European and worldly. I mean, we can make countless laws, if it's all down to '91. Worse are the occupiers now, because the system helps to concreteize. Here's an example I told Plitvice Lakes that this space, building land, allows individuals to spread against the interest of the whole of our society because Plitvice National Park is a symbol of all Europe and the world and is thus protected. How is that possible and where is thanking us in the first place? We don't do anything, it's convenient... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45428	Thank you. At the end, right? At the end of Mrs. Busic No, who gave... [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] Excuse me. Mr. Klisovic, you've been on the move. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45429	... Neither the acquis makes any sense nor the Croatian laws if they are not implemented in practice. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, implementation is a key segment in one law, i.e. in the functioning of the rule of law. And that is exactly one determined topic for this House, for this prey to talk about the implementation of our own legislation that we here in this assembly have voted on. And we see that in practice things don't work legally and that we have too many violations and the opposite of the behavior of our laws that lead to situations like these that you mentioned that are totally unacceptable. We'll make it easy for the acquis. We will take over the directive in a way and in the form that we consider to be the most appropriate thing to do in our legislation, we will have to apply decisions directly because it says what we are committed to in Europe. But how to implement this here is the key thing and I think it is the real theme of the level of functioning of the rule of law in Croatia. Because, of course, that's what corruption is about, and that's where all the lobbys and interests of the home and the parties that de facto prevent the implementation of our laws and where sometimes our government and our judicial system and everyone involved and responsible for applying the law fall under these pressures of certain interests that fit their own interests because there's always certain dynamics under the table itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45430	Thank you, too. Second replica and last Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Klisovic. About this information to the Parliament, at least according to the Committee on European Affairs on Infrarement or any letter of warning from the European Commission. I don't think there should be any problem here. Of course you know, you are well aware of the fact that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is doing it regularly anyway, every two weeks submitting a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I think that as far as this information is concerned, the availability of this information to the Croatian Parliament, at least according to the relevant committee, should not be any difficulty. Moreover, in the autumn there would be an information background for better monitoring of the whole and the procedure would already be operational. Therefore, I expect that the ministry will, of course, give an answer. But I believe there shouldn't be any problem here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45432	Mr. Klisovic, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45433	Here you go. Thank you very much, fellow Stier. I think you're right, and I hope that that's how it's gonna work out, and then, within the board with the chairman of the board, we'll also discuss the periodic appearances of the ministry people, give us some clarifications, because they're very often and very complex. Because if people are already coming to talk about different RS positions for different ministerial meetings in different formats, there's no reason why I might not use it at the same time then and for this debate, so that MPs are fully informed and that we can do our part of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45434	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45435	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary Bušić, respected Assistant Galli, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It should be recalled that we recently marked Croatia's fourth anniversary of EU membership. At that time, it was a meeting of the main strategic national objective for which we had a social consensus, which was outlined during the first president of Dr Franjo Tuđman and the creation of an independent Croatia. With EU membership, Croatia has confirmed its international position and benefits the opportunity to be part of the legal, economic and development community, i.e. to share common values with other members of our European family. Croatia joined the European project. And in order for all its citizens, business entities to feel the financial and economic benefits of membership in the Union. That is why our main goal is to strengthen the absorption of European funds year after year and to launch concrete development projects that will benefit our citizens in Croatia with the support of European funds. With this in mind, for the fourth year in a row, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has developed a programme for the adoption and implementation of the EU acquis for 2017, which also includes a plan for harmonisation of legislation. As we heard in the opening presentation of the State Secretary, the plan presents complete information on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2017. The EU is a legal community, i.e. the rule of law community in which we seek to share common values, which is why the uniform and consistent application of EU law in all Member States is crucial in order to give legitimacy to the European project and strengthen the implementation of our policies. This is in line with Croatia's expressed aspirations as signatories of a Roman declaration in which we share common faith in the future of the EU and continue to build a European project. With an inclusive approach to everyone. In areas other than the EU's exclusive competence, there is a useful instrument at the helm of subsidiarity that protects Member States' right to make decisions and actions. The mechanism of such early warning enables us to warn the national parliament by adopting reasoned opinions of non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in the proposals for EU legislative acts and this is something that I will certainly come up with more expression in the coming year, EU membership and further development of our parliamentary practice. In addition to the regulations that are automatically and uniformly applicable in their Member States as soon as they enter into force, Directives are required in a Member State to achieve certain results and objectives but to be left with the source of implementation. With the influence of all our representatives in the European Parliament and the Commission at the early stage of the legislative initiative, we keep it key that the objectives of a number of directives that are being translated into our national legislation, indeed through the government and all state institutions, are being implemented in order to set the objectives of European policies, and that Croatian policies have become a reality. Effective enforcement of EU rules is important for all Croatian citizens, because they have a major direct impact on their daily lives and although the EU acquis is constantly changing and developing and global circumstances are also very dynamic, it is important that Croatia adapts its legislation and is concrete in the common European market. It also ensures effective application of EU law in favour of its citizens. Following this, the government of the Republic of Croatia has also developed and adopted a government programme this year to take over the implementation of the EU acquis for the current year. It is a one-year programme document that represents an effective instrument for planning, monitoring, taking over legal property. This plan originally contained 71 laws, 64 sublaws, and 2 implementing measures, which are divided by quarters, which are primarily taken over by new EU acquis. However, since the acquis is a living organism that is constantly being changed and developed and new directives and regulations are being adopted, so the programme is constantly being complemented. It currently includes 82 laws and 72 sublaws, of which 33 are currently adopted and 25 adopted. We must also point out the importance of timely taking over of the EU acquis, otherwise the Republic of Croatia would be exposed to the Treaty of the European Commission and to the proceedings before the EU court for the implementation of EU law, i.e. to possible fines. The HDZ will therefore support the implementation of this plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2017. By adopting this act, Croatia confirms that it is also a responsible and functional Member State, which can position its national interests in creating a common EU policy, with a clear goal that consistent implementation of these laws goes primarily to the benefit of Croatian citizens and brings them concrete benefits and better quality conditions in everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45436	Thank you, too. We don't have a replica. Next is Mrs Vesna Pusic, the club of independent representatives and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues, as many of you as there are. Our club will support the adoption of this plan, we have always done so and should do so, always worked consensually. However, I will take this opportunity to say a few things, which we should say about this plan, the adoption of laws, or the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU provisions. As we know, as if you've been following our compliance business a little bit and a list of laws that come to this Parliament's agenda every year, since the time of the membership preparations, you've certainly noticed, that very often the same laws come. So, that we adapt, because within the EU, the rules that regulate the same matter or the same subject, we, our laws relating to the same topics, adapt continuously, therefore, as something on the same type of regulation or regulation relating to the same area is changing, we re-coordinate our legislation. This says that it is possible and indicates that it is possible to initiate amendments to European laws, i.e. amendments to European provisions and rules with which Member States are then harmonising their legislation on our part. In other words, Croatia also gives them through a member, through existing mechanisms in a state and should be able to initiate the application of European legislation on certain topics when it comes to some of our specific interests or situations where we have particularly clearly expressed preferences. It seems to me that it would not be bad if, together with these, now that we are already, let's say a somewhat stalking EU member, along with such a plan of harmonisation of legislation with European rules, that we have some plan of our initiatives, therefore, a plan of Croatian initiatives with which we are moving towards European institutions and we are trying to install them into the European system of rules. And from that point of view, I also don't think that it should be very mechanical to observe this harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU rules because sometimes it doesn't comply with certain provisions, regardless of what pulls sanctions at the end of the convention, so it doesn't happen immediately from today to tomorrow, it must not, of course, be the result of the clumper or bad work that does not work, but it can be the result of the fact that we simply disagree with some parts of that regulation and that we are then able to influence that regulation. So the impact as I have said many times before us is the harmonisation of one and the same law with the acquis of the EU precisely because this gain is constantly changing. And therefore, I think that this should not be fully mechanically treated, one proactive policy should be conducted, these provisions should be seen with understanding and analysed from the perspective of Croatian views, interests etc. and then it was proactive to participate in the creation of these rules and if at some point it is a controversial provision, then, of course, Croatia has a place to act. And I think we should start taking such a proactive stand slowly. Of course, when we were in the preparation phase for membership, we couldn't do it because we weren't sitting at the table, but now that we're sitting at the table for four years now, I think I need to slowly become able to contribute to what we call the EU acquis and what we are harmonising our legislation with. Therefore, the suggestion to start thinking in this direction and possibly add up some Croatian initiatives that will be on the agenda here to become or at least try to become an integral part of the EU legal body. And the other thing I would like to mention or say two, three words, more about this plan than as some is not a criticism of the plan because it does not apply directly to the plan, but it does refer to something that is closely related to it, and that is what we all know that in two and a half years, and in fact, it is summer now, so all together when you look at it, the time will come when Croatia will take over the EU presidency. It is a huge task for the government, but the Parliament has something to say here, so all the institutions of the state have something to say on this subject and we should start preparing for it intensively. Our administration is definitely too small for that, we simply don't have a lot of people who in the administration can do it, as we didn't even have for negotiations, so we reached both in the sphere of business and in the sphere of academic, so in institutions, academic institutions, we mobilized the companies to the people who participated in our negotiating team. It is a suggestion that in these preparations, since all institutions will indeed participate and beyond, to start with one more active activity and to bring together people from Parliament and people from local and regional self-government and of course people from the level of the executive government and to start preparing together with those we intend to mobilise or who should be mobilised outside the state administration, including all the way to local self-government, to start preparing ourselves for this EU presidency by some common rules. It is known that countries cannot take advantage of their own presidency to push some of their specific or particular interests during that period, but they can make excellent use of the Presidency to present themselves and affirm themselves in their identity in various aspects of that identity in order to present themselves at European level, regardless of what we think everyone knows us and that we are always the first to remember. It is, of course, not so and it is an opportunity for us to present Croatia, so perhaps we should try to define ourselves what this identity is in different aspects and phenomena, but certainly to present it at a European and somewhat global level. Therefore, I think that, in parallel with this plan to adapt Croatia's legislation to European legislation, it should begin to think maybe also about laws or individual institutions, individual initiatives that will act or should be prepared for the Croatian EU presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45438	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pusic. You have three replicas. The first line will be given by Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45439	Thank you very much. Dear Professor Pusic, you said nicely that Croatia as a full member should be active in Brussels. And when the coordination plans are adopted and the acquis is to be taken into account and what solutions should be proposed in Brussels as we are later bound by those directives. We are being approached by the committees of the Council of Ministers, each time they take over the EU presidency. And they present to us the priorities that the country that is taking over the presidency has or is hinting at the EU. However, we always have trouble hearing how Croatia intends to join these priorities and how Croatia intends to join these priorities and how Croatia intends to take advantage of the priorities set by the new presidency to promote certain interests. So some concrete solutions that are important to our country, which would be because a country has thus defined the interests that are important to us, where we would have a good ear from such an EU chairman. This shows that we are not really mature until the end of the EU member states, because we do not know how to recognize the opportunity to place our views, where at the right time, to form an alliance with the EU chairman and to join in his priorities. And that is why I want your opinion, too, but I also call on the Government to present every time it comes to the priorities of the Presidency of the Member State that takes over the EU to tell us what are the Croatian priorities and what concrete initiatives and proposals will have for different legal solutions in Brussels our Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45440	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pusic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45441	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Klisovic, I agree with that, of course. It is clear to me that after many years of negotiations on membership, one mentality develops that is only acceptable and does not propose and does not have one proactive policy because it is simply the logic of negotiating membership. But now it's been a long time, let's say four years since our membership. So we should absolutely have a proactive policy there. And I think we should, of course, oppose and compete at home, but at European level, I think we should also take care of the policy of continuity. We had two important initiatives that were very on the way 'let's say they were very successful, they had results, one was connected to energy, the other was tied to BiH. It was called the German-British, or the British-German initiative but it was designed in our ministry, with us and the tactics of how it would be placed and turned into a European attitude came up with us and here we got these two great allies who helped make it a European attitude. Now, the government's changed, okay. It has other priorities but these priorities remain the same, it's not, there's nothing changed in that respect and it needs to be used. It doesn't have to be put in a situation that it's just because it's at a local, therefore domestic level that the competition has come up with to neglect it, toss it into a seal, and then we get into a situation where, of course, no one defends that attitude and some brand new ones appear to us, in my opinion, a much less acceptable solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45442	Thank you very much. The second line has Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pusic, you have warned of the need for better coordination between political parties but also in terms of, I would add communication here with our representatives, i.e. Croatian representatives in the European Parliament. Because as we know when it comes to European legislation, then the European Parliament must also be included with the Council, mainly on a proposal from the European Commission, not always, but mainly on a proposal from the European Commission, then the European Parliament and the Council adopt this European legislation. And that is why I think that communication is important and good that, in the last few months, all the views of the Republic of Croatia have made more accessible and representatives in the European Parliament that they can monitor, that they can react in time. Here is the secretary of state who has been a representative in the European Parliament for the time being, so she certainly knows how hard it was to do this when it was not received from Zagreb or in our mission in Brussels, all that information. And that's where one quality shift was made, and I think we should keep building on it. There is, only briefly, and when you talk about continuity, there I absolutely agree and I think we have a good example that should also be highlighted here because of the Croatian public, as regards making some decisions that were for Croatia and especially for the Croatian economy very, very useful, such as the issue of customs regulation from BiH. Of course, it went through the European Commission, but the Council and the European Parliament were actively working there, and in this case, of course, our representatives in the European Parliament were well-coordinated, and in the end, as you know, these customs have now been brought in, that is to say, taking into account the historical trade between Croatia and BiH, which has also made it possible for our economy to enter the BiH market better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45444	Thank you, Mr. Stier. Time's up, thank you. Mrs. Pusic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45445	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Stier. Therefore, it is certainly good to include representatives in the European Parliament and the more informed they are, the better, but we know that the majority of them are de facto, the initiative and the one where the initiatives for regulation are launched is the European Commission. Therefore, then the council but the Commission is a working body, therefore, this close cooperation with the Commission and individual commissioners is not only for each country, but with the Commissioners is very important for each country and I agree, there are good examples of continuity, one is the Pelješki bridge and the money for the Peljega Bridge. For the first time, when we came to Commissioner Hahn, who was then in charge of transport, suggested that the Peljek Bridge be financed from EU funds, he almost fell off the chair. He was energetic against it, and then the Vice President of the Commission was energetically against it, we were constantly working on it, it continued to work on it, and the result is there. I think it's the best illustration that it's a good one approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45446	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mrs. Irene Petrievcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45447	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Pusic, you've apostrophe of one important question, so my replica will be painted in part with the replica of counterpart Klisovic and fellow Stier. And as for the issues that you have raised, how much, in fact, the governments and the foreign ministry so far have actively participated in the creation, proposing and activities concerning the amendment and addition of European legislation and how much, in which areas it was most active. In response to your colleague Klisovic, you mentioned that energy and the issue in BiH is an area that you would have singled out, but I would actually be interested in whether there are any indicators or statistics, and I think it would be useful to see in which we have been the most active areas in the proposals so far, which is a set of legislation. Is that, I don't know, the safety of food and products, is that fundamental freedoms, whether it's air quality issues, now I'm coloquializing something that comes to mind, and what areas we haven't shown interest in at all. Because both colleagues Klisovic and you and fellow Stier as active actors in foreign policy certainly have these knowledge that we may not have and I believe that these indicators are multiplely useful so that in future steps of our foreign policy in some areas passive, we can move into an active, more proactive policy. And the question is whether it depends perhaps on our capabilities as a bureaucratic apparatus, is it possible that we are limited there and how much it actually depends on some lobbyist force of Croatia in the EU, and I assume that everything is one symbiosis amongst ourselves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45448	Mr. Vice President, can I have two words?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45449	Yes, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45450	Thank you very much. So I don't know if there's any factical statistics, but I guess there's something, what you usually see and you know are in large areas where Croatia is most engaged and where it's most asked. One is the region, and related to that expansion. Energy because we had and were in some plan as an important point in this European energy network and strategy. Now, it's absolutely certain that there are a number of things that are not so effective and interesting, let's say, for the general audience, but that are very important for each sector. For example, in a beekeeping or in a water economy, so in some segments that may not be recognized by a wide audience, but which are very important for that part and can do much in that vault. As far as the initiative was concerned, I don't know but I suppose it can at least be reconstructed from the activities of certain ministries with which they went and what were themes or objections in their councils or in their participation in these councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45451	Thank you very much. Would Mrs. Busic like to take her word at the end as a proposing? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all respected MPs and MPs for interventions and commendable recommendations and debates, but Mr. Klisovic has asked a question that I really want to give a quick review. So procedures for infringement of EU law and that would be statistics very briefly, and if I agree absolutely with your proposal, Mr. Klisovic, we could organise a committee and present absolutely all the details but I will be brief. It means procedures for injuries. First open pretrial proceedings, 36 total. So we have 29 letters, official notices, and that's phase one of the pretrial proceedings. We have 17 reasoned opinions, and that's phase two of the pretrial procedure. Court proceedings in total right now, so we have 2 court proceedings, 2. We have successfully closed the pretrial proceedings in total 37. So everything is absolutely open, transparent, this is all public, really here we are at our disposal, as my colleague Stier said when, in his replica, absolutely diaphragm, we can organize whenever you want and we'll bring all the information. I would further answer, let's say that the representative, the distinguished representative Pusic, is to act proactively. I agree with you absolutely. We could do that anyway. The plan of Croatian initiatives absolutely. Try to give your own ideas. Yeah, sure. If and when we have a constructive proposal, we will certainly do so, and of course every ministry is. The plan is also a respected representative of Pusic, we have a plan for the 2020 presidency anyway. We informally introduced him to the government, but it's still internal. Of course, when that time comes, we will present it, but we are already working very hard on it and within the government it is informally presented. And these are all the things you mentioned we really have in mind. So the government has been working really hard for a few months now. Here's what would be brief. And since they asked me to be brief to Mr Stier, as Mr Stier also noted, we have indeed established a very high-quality cooperation with our representatives in the European Parliament. Yes, of course, I agree that everything starts with the European Commission. That's true, and that's the plan we're working on, be assured. Here I hope we are and thank you for the quality of the debate and all the replicas, the interventions you've had. We'll consider it anyway. And here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45453	Thank you, too. You have one replica Mr. Klisovic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45454	Thank you very much. Thank you for this input, and it's nice to have 37 successfully closed cases where the whole thing didn't go to another part of the European law infringement procedure. Can you tell us what these are two cases where the case against Croatia is being conducted for violations of European law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45455	Replication response, Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45456	Yeah, yeah, right. Also, if you want, I can tell you right now, it's not like anything in these cases is a secret, so it's not. It's a European Commission lawsuit, it's a law on residential consumer lending one, I have a detailed but I don't think we have time to explain everything. But really everything is available to you, and at your request, I will deliver everything, and the other is the Audit Act. Those two are facing a lawsuit. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45457	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the speakers. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I'm giving a 15 minute break, until 15:30 to continue the debate next point on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative fact-finding committee on the circumstances of the creation of Agrokor, to shorten as a proposal from the SDP. Thank you very much. Fifteen minutes break, less than fifteen minutes, thirteen minutes. It's 3:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45458	Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2017. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 127 votes for, 6 abstentions and 2 votes against the adoption of a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2017 in the text proposed by the proposer. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] It is next: - The proposal for a decision to set up an investigation committee to determine the facts regarding the circumstances of Agrokor business concert, its position on the market today, the emergence of its business problems, and in particular its debts to suppliers and other creditors, the role of market regulators related to Agrokor's business activities and the circumstances that led to the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards Agrokor, or a proposal for possible solutions to the situation in which Agrokor was found. They shall be proposed by 18 representatives of the SDP Club, on the basis of Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigative committees. The proposal for an act was delivered by the Parliament. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed colleague Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45460	... Parliament, here is today this moment has coincided on the establishment of an investigative committee in the case of Agrokor, with new evidence and new facts about the case itself. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The day after the new discovery, new evidence that Finance Minister Andrej Plenkovic knew in December 2016 that Agrokor was shaking and actively helping to save him. If he knew, and then he lied for a long time about it, that he was helping in that case. That's the truth about Agrokor and the truth about HBOR's privileged loan. Of course we want to know what is going on behind the scenes now held by Minister Maric, Minister Dalic and Commissioner-General Ramljak in Agrokor. What's behind the scenes that's about to detach something in the fall? A scenario that will disintegrate and hit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not Todorovic, not the managers in Agrokor, not the agencies and advisers, who have now successfully attached themselves to the body of Agrokor, but will hit all Croatian citizens, those managers, the family, will somehow get away. In the end, those who are least guilty will get hurt again. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is extremely important for us today to make a decision on the establishment of this committee, to establish facts and to shed light on what is happening in order to bring about this frightening situation in the very concert of Agrokor. That's why we need the commission to take further steps in the case of Agrokor. Todoric and that should be said, he has long been untouchable in this country, enjoying privileged status at all levels. It began to grow rapidly thanks to HDZ support, thanks to the support of first President Tudjman but grew further. In this country, many governments, many governments, during which the control lights did not turn on, and the situation in which it was to be reacted, was out of control. The institutions that were to control this growth were not responding and should have reacted. They should've said enough now, and now they have to say it, because the networking of Todorovic and its power grew and grew, it entered both the CNB and the agencies and the government and the media houses. That's true. Now it's all trying to move under the carpet. A lot of people say, it doesn't matter how it all happened together. No, it's extremely important. In order not to repeat ourselves, it is our responsibility to not leave the issue open to future generations, to bring to the House, not only Todorovic, but all those who have helped to grow and those who have helped him cover up his tracks. It's our responsibility. A people who do not learn from their history from their mistakes cannot succeed and repeat their tragedies. We don't have to learn anything from this tragic episode and leave some messages. Let us not create untouchable companies, untouchable tycoons and let us not bind politics and business in such a way that innocent workers, workers, Croatian agriculture, small suppliers, those who are at present, in the case of Agrokor and its exposures are extremely endangered. And that is why it is the task of every responsible representative in the Croatian Parliament to raise hands for this commission. I'll just read you a few provisions of criminal law. The Penal Code, Article 291, first I will say this, if it is true that pure bargaining, there has been approval of HBOR's credit, then it is a pure market bargaining for which the European Commission is normally, ruthlessly haunting and punishing Member States. On the other hand, given the roll-up model and the priority in the charge, in the new crediting of Agrokor, it is very likely that the loan given by HBOR itself will not be in the first line of charge, it is clear and will probably never be charged. This means that with this loan and the approval of HBOR's loan, Agrokor fell when it was known about the situation in Agrokor was further damaged by the state budget in 2016. Article 291 of the abuse of positions and powers means that no duty is performed and the other person is benefited. This Regulation shall enter Penal Code, illegal favoration means to use the position to qualify for transactions for the activity of persons with whom it is of interest. Article 295 of trade in influence, taking advantage of the official position in order to carry out an action that should not be carried out and Article 303 is also a criminal offence to hide the perpetrator. I will conclude with only one conclusion, so Prime Minister Plenkovic or doesn't know and doesn't see what's going on in Agrokor or something, and it's clear to everyone that he knows and sees. And I call on you to vote together for this investigative committee, to determine the facts in the Agrokor case, because unless there is an agreement on the investigation committee there will be no vote on constitutional judges either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45461	Are you done on behalf of the club? Won't anyone answer it? Okay. Then we have the coat of arms and Maras. We've got 11 replicas, we're starting with a colleague named Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45462	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bernardic talked about how they knew, I agree, they knew I had talked about it since there when the problems at Jamnica started at the end of last year, they knew, they knew board members, board members, they knew on the credit board. Here are the information on who was in which bodies, so on 4 March 2016, so in the first days after the new year of the government of Mr. Oreshkovic, Mr. Maric, Mr. Panenić, Mr. Tolusic, Kliman, Romic and Horvat all from the ranks of the ministries. Of course we know by the HBOR Act, 10 are members of the Supervisory Board consisting of six ministers in charge of individual areas, three parliamentary representatives and the President of the Chamber of Commerce. The credit is due to the data on the 21st 12th, just before Christmas, somewhere on shifts in the administration's jurisdiction. We also have a decision since 9 December, so a few weeks ago that from the ranks of parliamentary representatives, then the quota of those three members except for six prime ministers, Boris Lalovec, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, Grozdana Peric and of course their deputies. So I pray that when it comes to this commission that all of them honestly tell us what they knew or didn't know and what went through their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45463	Replication response. No, I don't. Then let's go to another replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45464	Thank you very much. Col. Bernardić, of course, the fact that Agrokor targeted the Croatian economy that so much monopoly was taken that the simple responsibility here is evident on all finance ministers, I don't know how many are sitting here right now, on the CNB which is why I've raised the criminal application here now will now be nearly 2.5 months and 3 months in the middle of the 4th month against the CNB which damaged... Vice-Governmental and Deputy Governors also and all governments since the beginning of Agrokor's creation in this way until a crucial moment when Mercator bought where the government means and the SDP government also praised the event. However, all ministers in the Stability Council were finance, so CNB and HANFA. Even in 2012, according to Governor Vujčić, everyone knew the prime minister, the whole government knew the situation in Agrokor and 10 billion kunas without exchanges that they used without cover, which is an eclative blow to the monetary stability of the Republic of Croatia and financial stability. Everyone needs to answer to you. I'm in favour of the commission, but I've also filed a criminal report, so I'm asking the state's attorney's office who also hasn't done her part of the job, what has been done by my applications on the HANFA and on the CNB issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45465	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so we're moving on to our third, distinguished colleague, the Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45466	Dear colleague Bernardic. You said the situation around Agrokor was responsible for many governments, I don't know exactly which syntax you used, and that's true. So all the governments that managed Croatia during that period of growth in Agrokor are responsible for what happened. But here we are discussing one man's responsibility, so that's the main topic of these days in the media, and hopefully if HDZ doesn't change the attitude that he had that he would support the investigation committee, we'll be able to discuss all these aspects of the work of these many governments that we'll be able to discuss here. It takes a long time and one serious and thorough work. But what are the facts is that one minister was high-ranking in Agrokor, that it was certainly better than all the governments and many ministers knew the situation in Agrokor, that as chairman of the Supervisory Board, even though his colleague Sincic had now listed all the people who were appointed, but those people who were appointed did not all decide on the loan. So he mentioned some of the previous supervisory board, he mentioned here a colleague, Ivana Ninčević, who did not want to come to the supervisory board when deciding on the loan because they had received the documentation two days earlier. And we can't blame these people and expect them to study it all and know the state of Agrokor. But the finance minister had to take a good look at these analyses and then, as a proposing point, tell those people sitting on the board of directors. He suggested the point and then said and even answered the questions that some existed and then opted out afterwards and said that for known reasons he could not vote. This should be discussed today, and this is a key point, i.e. a key charge against Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45467	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45468	So you remember that the minister made his own exception from the decision and then voted for Lex Agrokor. So this is an evidence of the violation of that decision and the involvement of the whole process. Ecultaneous evidence. What I am particularly concerned about is if a loan is granted, the practice of the European Commission has been violated, but this is less important. It is important that at that time the situation in Agrokor was well known for it. This means that with the direct approval of a loan that certainly will not return now because roll up is the first one in charge directly damaged the state budget. And that's new evidence, new indications that are as big as a house. It's not recycling, it's a rock, it's a stone on the road standing between a regulated rule of law that wants to introduce order and one state that denies, looks and puts its head in the sand. And it's amazing to me that Prime Minister Plenkovic can't see it. If he can't see, it means he's hiding something. It would not be good for Croatia, it would not be good for the institutions, it would not be good for all the processes that are ahead of us. Therefore, absolutely, we do not have the slowness to investigate, to see, to find out, to initiate what affected the business decisions that led to this situation, transparently, with the responsibility of all those involved. But in this process, people, we must be reasonable, reasonable and allow this decision to be implemented, that the parliamentary commission is established in the interests of Croatian citizens, in the interest of future generations, in the interest of Croatia and as a message to those who want to go beyond that in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45469	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable counterpart Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45470	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bernardic, so all of what you've been saying about the need to set up an investigative commission can be seen through one time, through one time dynamic, and of course it's important. But if we watch events that only happen yesterday and the day before yesterday, you have two former fellow ministers, one says one, the other says on TV today this one is lying, I will sue him for slander. And we have a situation where people who have decided on dozens of millions of euros today claim to lie to each other through the media. Let's go back at that moment, the minister who comes from Agrokor knows the situation in Agrokor, puts the point on the agenda, actually encourages his colleagues to vote on it and then says, "I'm the one who took it off, you know, I have nothing to do with it." Whose money did he give there? That's our money. The citizens would pay for it, because at that moment, he was aware of everything he was saying that the loan would never come back. So the exception is more than hypocrisy. I made up my mind that someone else would decide to give a loan that wouldn't come back and answer for it. Well, that's the reason for the investigation committee. Let's move on one step further, there's a law on lex Agrokor, no one protects the state, no one protects the citizens, no one remembers to place this loan in the billing championship, but protects the banks, again the reason for the investigative commission. And just those two points where 50 million euros went to something that would never come back and when the state passed the law and said, no, I don't care, I won't put it in the billing championship, that, I don't care, sometimes they charge the bank. Now, that's the only reason for the investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45471	Replication response. Please, Comrade Shucker!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45472	So you said yourself, thank you, MP Milenić, so there are two key things. The first is the finance minister's exemption from the decision on the loan but has not been exempted from the decision on lex Agrokor. My people, these are stories for little children, so do not paint our people. The second thing, you mentioned yourself, that it is possible in two governments with two HDZ presidents who are totally on different political sides of spectrum within the HDZ, Karamarko and Plenkovic, one single minister enjoys both of the highest confidence. Now you explain it to me. It's more than clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45473	Thank you. Next up, it's for the line, dear colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45474	Your Honor. My colleague Bernardiæ tells us we owe the people the truth, the one who doesn't remember his history could repeat it to him. An investigative committee composed of whom, of whom, of whom, in the name of what, for whom, against whom? We're talking about a consequence here called Agrokor and we're not talking about the cause of many agrocorts, Tedeskics and others who, in privatization with party gold, created it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45475	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, So please, let's at least treat each other right, that's the least we can ask each other for, so don't. Well, the demagogy sells many of us here and we ask that we let him speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45476	They've been taking me for a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45477	Time, we'll give you back time Here you go. [[Intruder Culey: Give me back my time.]] 20 seconds more than you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45478	How many times I've talked here, you did it to Maras when you went to the producer's houses to work there. You're gonna run that and that. I've got something for everyone, and you guys keep your mouth shut like you don't know anything, pretend you're drowning here. And you know everything about each other, right? And we're talking about the people knowing the truth, what truth? Whose truth? So we haven't cleaned this truth out of the square yet, and we're telling some truth. Whoever's going to investigate this whole thing, there's a lot of smart people here in the judiciary, we're not acting anything, nobody's interested, and now we're talking about some, uh, investigative committee. So put together this commission of Croatian defenders, among the congratulatory Croats who look at us, and then there will be results, not for Maras to be my leader and commission leader, and for him to drive water to his own mill and for himself not to see it in the mirror. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45479	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45480	Stevo, I suggest that, as much as I can suggest to the HDZ Club, I suggest you be there, too, in that commission, here's Fred Matic. So it cannot be, while some fought while men were killed, others were stealing and these were covering it up. What are we talking about? It won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45481	My colleague Bernardić, I ask you to address us as a respected colleague, by last name, we can't call each other names here right now. The next replica, dear fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45482	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardic, you have accused HDZ governments in your presentation, meaning they have brought Agrokor into the situation he is in. So I'm going to ask you two or three questions, so you're going to answer me if you know. I'm going to ask you first, do you know that between 2000 and 2003, they mean in the government of Ivica Racan, Agrokor grew the most and that at that time they were the strongest acquisitions in the food sector, almost all the peaks in terms of privatisation? Secondly, did you know that during the period of the Government of Zoran Milanovic Agrokor, that the deadly loan of 600m euros from Sberbank was granted that it somehow went under the government radar that you supported at the time, to determine today that HDZ was guilty of all this? The second question I'm going to ask you is, have you consulted on the purpose of establishing this committee with your SDP member, who is now one of the directors in Agrokor, Mršić, one important sector in the sense of saving what can be saved, whether this commission helps him or perhaps in some way it will help him as a whole concert in the sense that what we all want happens, is to survive and continue to act? And third, can you assess the impact of the phone number 0800 999 907 on the attempt to rescue Agrokor?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45483	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45484	Thank you very much. Well, I told the government, I didn't tell the HDZ Government, but obviously you felt called, I don't know why, you'll have to explain it to the Croatian public, and that's the difference between what we're looking for and what you de facto advocate. So we're asking to talk about everything that's happened. Well, no one was happy, i.e. No one's unhappy when things worked out well. But if she was on the wrong footing, what's the problem with investigating it? What's the problem? What's the problem with knowing what happened every time? I don't see a problem here. And I don't see why that bothers you. I don't see why you're hiding something. And I don't see why you're feeling quite called?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45485	Let's go to replica number seven. Dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45486	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bernardic, this is exactly the past replica and your answer tells us that the investigative commission is necessary to establish. Who cares about the truth that you've just seen what's been going on all these years, regardless of who the government has been, what's been going on with Agrokor. Because no individual, no company should be put in front of the state's interests. And that's exactly what it seems to people that the interest of a company is put ahead of the interests of the state. Prime Minister Plenkovic defended Minister Maric here and it was a political act. He politically defended him from the shift, while replacing four ministers and accusing them of not being collegiate with Minister Maric. But you've expanded the debate here, you've said here it's about protecting the constitutional-legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And it's not just political responsibility, it's here and legal responsibility. And I think that an investigative committee in this regard can help the institutions of this state, above all, to clear it up. Because, even if Minister Maric was not an employee of Agrokora, he was basically, like any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, obliged to protect and respect those laws, and since he was an employee of Agrokora, he was one of the directors, here told the Parliament that he had signed only two contracts. A contract to start a working relationship and to stop. However, the impossible news, we saw today from the debate on pension funds, it is impossible that he did not know what many knew and the representatives of pension funds knew, and they are here today because they said that in December 2016 shares of Ledo and Jamnica had already begun to be resolved. So, everyone knew, how is it possible that only Minister Maric didn't know at that time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45487	There is no response to the replica, so we move on to the replica of the distinguished colleague Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45488	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board, I haven't been to this session, but I've said several times, colleague Sincic, I'm sorry you didn't wash it, to refuse to vote as I did at every other session of HBOR. And I refuse to vote exactly for the reason we get the materials two days ago. I'm not talking about the materials of this kind, but I'm talking about this kind of material envelope of five companies that are about 500 million kunas, for which to raise a hand. It's a matter that needs to be investigated by an investigative committee. Why is such material such a large amount of public money, so it's not my money, it's not your money, it's our citizens' money, why are such materials given two days ago? And the other thing that is very much for the investigative commission, I, when I'm done with my term as parliamentary representative, can't be the director of my firm for a year because it's not legal. And then on the other hand we have a person who comes from such a concert, a concert that has brought the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia to the wall and it can put on the agenda a point to be granted loans. Is that normal? Here, tell me in which country is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45489	Replica number nine, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45490	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bernardić, from your opening presentation, I wonder if you will change your request to set up an investigative commission, because you have focused on something. It's another thing. HBOR reports here. It's very interesting that no one asked for a record from one session and another, and we could win and see. If someone has already missed something at the session, then why did they miss voting for the record? The third thing, colleagues and colleagues, so it's saddened that we're adopting HBOR reports, that we don't know how HBOR is financed. These funds that are available from the budget are for specific programmes held by the restoring ministries, and all these other loans are financed from EIB and EBRD investment banks. The second thing, therefore, is not that the loans are given to Agrokor but four companies. Third thing, something's bothering me. In 2012, the HANFA Act was amended. You can read my debate about what I said at the time, you can read it. Why didn't HANFA react? The second thing, all the controversial funding that Agrokor actually threw on their knees was from abroad. SBER bank did not lend loans from branches in Croatia, but from foreign branches where they are not subject to those HBORs 25%... Same story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look at the HANFA report. We discussed him in the Parliament. Well, how everyone who sees everything didn't see in that report that something was wrong. Did HANFA warn you? It's not. And you know what happened when the CNB just factored into a joint bank balance, then the factorins were getting funds from abroad. Why didn't HANFA react then? Let's go look for those reports, and then we can talk about it. And one more sentence, please. If we don't trust the DORH here in this High House, then let's disband the DORH, let's start a new institution. Because DORH is doing reconnaissance at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45491	Thank you. It's the tenth replica, and it's already a replica. Yeah, yeah, go ahead. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45492	So, if you listened well to me in the opening part, I said that the control lights of Croatian institutions, including the HANFAs, didn't turn on. That's what I was talking about here. And we want to know why that is. And all the answers to your questions will just look for this investigative commission and that's the idea. Answers to everything you've asked, answers to all our questions, all your questions. And so I suggest that if you have a proposal to improve the investigative commission, how to install some of the things that we may have missed in the proposal, and we think that this proposal is more than good and more than comprehensive, that you should propose it as an amendment. That's what you're giving us to bring the investigative committee to the polls on Friday. There's no reason not to approve the work of an investigative committee on Agrokor. There's no reason to hide anything. There is no reason not to allow the truth in the case of Agrokor to come out. I urge you not to hide anything, but to just support this request and to fix it if you think you need to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45493	We're going to the next line. Dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45494	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, my colleague Bernardic, since you say there was a suspicion, etc. in Agrokor's functioning. Since 2012, there has been evidence that we have also heard in public that it has been warned from the Croatian National Bank about certain gaps that occurred, i.e. in the banking system itself, and they were related to the exposure of banks. So, in 2012, at the end of 2011, then you, your government and all the MPs here could also react and seek reports and data from both then administration and from all the institutions involved. As far as the loan is concerned, which I am also in the HBOR Supervisory Board, I must say that I respect the institutions and procedures that are being done in that institution. So we as the Supervisory Board will not control to the extent that some colleagues, or colleagues, interpret it. So you control the system. All the coverage of this loan was well founded entirely without a single stain. And unlike some, I manage to look at and read the materials. So it's not true that you can't, it's our job and it's our responsibility. Therefore, the documents were also of quality with favourable coverage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45495	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45496	Thank you, counselor. So you yourself said you were a member of the Supervisory Board. Whether the documents were of quality and the same will be discussed by this investigative committee. So, you de facto if you're a member of the Supervisory Board it's as a supervisory authority in the interest of investigating the whole case because this isn't about HANFA. This isn't just about the role of regulators, it's about yesterday, from new eclectic evidence, about almost 50 million euros. It's over 300 million kunas that were thrown into the wind, swept through the wind, no more. That 300 million kuna is gone. Whose money is that? Money from Croatian citizens, money if you want the state budget. That's the money that directly damaged the Republic of Croatia's budget, that's what this is all about. And so I ask you to see that, so I ask that in the interest of transparency in the interest of respecting the institutions of this country... To an investigative committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have no reason to hide anything. There's no reason to stick anything under the carpet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45497	Let's go to replica number 11, dear colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45498	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened to my colleague Bernardiæ in your debate, I listened to your answers and all these replicas, and I think it takes a little emphasis on some of the things you talked about in the debate. One of these is the authority to verify certain things contained in this proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission. For example, the role of market regulators during the development of the Agrokor concert. That's not the job of the state's attorney's office. It is precisely the work of the Croatian Parliament to determine whether the control system in Croatia worked properly or needed to be modified. Let's move on. Risks of the application of the law on the procedure of extraordinary management in companies, etc., to the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. Again, something that is not the task of the state's attorney's office, but the work of the Croatian Parliament, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is not fulfilled when the law is passed. We go to the end, whether a 48.3m-euro loan, so, as you said almost 50m euros, is over 300m kuna, approved in accordance with the procedures. And now I have to ask you a question, because I really don't get it. For the last two days, we have witnessed an extremely rude and inappropriate argument between a former minister, one current minister, both members of the Supervisory Board at the time of the loan. If this investigative committee is established, we will receive this transcript, i.e., a tone from the board of directors' session and we will be able to determine whether what the colleague Dobrović is saying or what his colleague Maric is saying, but it is in the interest of the entire Croatian public, I ask you, do you think that Minister Maric, when he is already calling for that tone record, should be published today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45499	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45500	So if a man without a finance minister calls for a tone record, then the tone record should be completely transparent. And what you yourself said, that this authority in Croatia is the institutions of this state stemming from Parliament. Regulators come from the Croatian Parliament, which is the Croatian state's roof body. Without the Croatian Parliament, there is no instrument of power. If you want, there's no government, there's no regulator. And that's why it's a responsibility to discuss this through a parliamentary investigative committee. What we have to add in this case, you have quite well listed what are all the powers of an investigative committee that have nothing to do with the state's attorney's office at all. I call upon you, my people in the name of reason, to accept this parliamentary investigation commission. Don't be afraid, don't be afraid. One who is not responsible has no reason to fear. Why is someone afraid? There's no reason for that. Take it, let's light up the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45501	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in. You're the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45502	Thank you very much. I'd like to laugh, too, but we're talking about more important things here, and I'm asking everyone to focus on what's a metric. I see that HDZ has announced that it does not want an investigative committee, I quote my colleague Bačić "Because the only real investigation that can be carried out is the one carried out by the DORH." I will also remind my colleague Bačić and the HDZ Club and all the representatives in this House, that the investigation committee is not engaged in criminal responsibility or solely criminal responsibility, nor is it the intensity of the commission. The commission deals with matters of public interest and now you are here to explain to the Croatian public that it is not the public's interest to see the circumstances under which certain things have happened. So why are you making crazy people look at us now? What a DORH, what a criminal responsibility. We want to know specifically here's the situation. What happened at the session, where one says Dobrović and the other says Maric? Well, there may not be any criminal responsibility, but there are political and moral responsibilities. I'm sure, either for Maric or Dobrovic. You want to hide from people what happened there. Because, you know, everyone can call and everything can be asked, and my colleague Bernardic, people won't lie for someone, especially those officers at HBOR. Why would they lie about Maric or Dobrovic? They'll tell us what happened. But HDZ doesn't want to know. HDZ doesn't want people to hear what happened out there, which is why I don't know. I can assume, but I don't know, and that's why DORH has nothing to do with this. One of my concerns is that today the DORH made several statements about Agrokor, which seems to me to be a coordinated action between the DORH and the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45503	Thank you. The answer to the replica? There's no answer. Then we move on to the second debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, distinguished colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45504	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. This morning I took a break on this very subject of the Agrokor Commission's investigation, so now I'm practically just going to connect to it. In fact, we all know more about the situation of Agrokor and we all know the situation the economy has brought into the Republic of Croatia. We all know that it was to the extent that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to intervene. The comparisons work, across the way in the neighbouring country, Italian Parmalat, 4 in size then in Europe and activity, which in a similar way came to its disintegration, where the Government also had to intervene and adopted the Law on Systemically Important Companies led by an extraordinary Commissioner, who in fact for the 10 years that restructuring took, managed to partially and save parts of the concerts as well as jobs. The difference, however, was that the investigation went to the point that the owner was closed, that all his associates were shut down as well as state auditors and officials, and the investigation went so far as to investigate even the prime minister himself. And with us, there's an entirely different story. With us exactly the finance minister from the concerts of that kind, becoming the finance minister and changing the laws is necessary to accommodate such a concert. So the minister didn't know with us, the minister didn't know only six months before the complete collapse of Agrokor that the company was on the wrong track, only six months. I'll tell you, that can't happen with an entrepreneur. First, because an entrepreneur is a person who has his plans in advance who has detailed knowledge of his expenditures and knows how much he needs income, especially in such concerts. For six months, they knew the state of Agrokor. Here is a colleague who is also a member of the Supervisory Board who says they have received very high-quality materials that she has read very well and concluded that it is good for her to give this loan to Agrokor. Well, I'd like to ask you colleagues, please don't read it with that kind of quality anymore, because maybe then we'll give it to someone who will pay it back. I'll return to a minister who didn't know, so the minister who didn't know to let the HBOR Board's agenda come to this very point on the loan of the company he came from. So if that's not one of the facts that I think is most important to the investigation committee, I don't know what it is. So we allow the person who worked in a concert that brought the entire economy to the wall to put such a point on the agenda. But it is not the end, because the minister who did not know still changes the laws that suit Agrokor, so the minister changed the statistical report rule or extended the deadline for the outstanding outstanding claims that were hidden from the public in this way, and most importantly, I said this morning and in the last debate, prevented the reaction of the authorities. The Minister who did not know goes further, thus amending the Factoring Act, which already extends the deadline for coordinating legal entities to an additional period and thus allows legal entities not only more time to adapt but also more time not to show the real situation to the public, but also to prevent the reaction of the competent authorities. This amendment to the law, or extension of the deadline, has allowed Agrokor additional time in which they do not have to meet certain conditions, including the risk management plan and the mandatory control of HANFA. It was precisely these changes that culminated in the urgent need for urgent law-making. The Most Club will support the proposal to establish the Agrokor investigational championship because its fundamental objective is to identify the facts about the circumstances of the particular Agrokor concert, its current position on the market, its positions that have put the whole economy at risk, and the government to react and find a solution to the situation in which they have found themselves, and perhaps to prevent this left-to-right throw to the right who is to blame, so perhaps finally the investigative commission and prove to us that the governments have favored Agrokor and who brought us into this situation today. The aim and purpose of this committee, which we certainly support, is to investigate how the privatisation process of companies that are part of the Agrokor concert, how the main market regulators reacted, what the quality of the accounting reporting of the Agrokor concern, for which I recall the minister did not know, that respect for the laws relating to the payment of claims and debts of the concerts, whether the HBOR loan itself was approved in accordance with the procedures, the minister did not know whether market regulators in particular HNB and HNFA and the Market Protection Agency were protecting public interest, not Agrokor, whether companies authorised to audit carried out their audit operations in accordance with the law and many other things that should simply be explored. It is necessary to finally put an end to and, and to investigate whether all these institutions including the finance minister have put ahead of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the private interest of one's company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45505	... Ivan called you. I didn't see it. Here we have 12 replicas. He's the first respected colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45506	Dear colleague Lesandric. As far as this investigation is concerned in Italy, I suspect in this outcome in Croatia, I am convinced that this will not happen, but we are not talking about determining criminal responsibility, but we are talking about the role of all institutions, regulators and everything else in this whole Agrokor situation. And I think that by ruling these first reactions, they have essentially made the strongest arguments that an investigative commission on Agrokor is needed and that counterpart Boris practically gave the strongest arguments when he said that the SDP governments are the most responsible for this situation around Agrokor. And that's exactly the strongest, so he's the man who gave the strongest argument to establish an investigative commission here in the Parliament that will investigate all the circumstances so that there won't be this transfer from left to right who's more responsible, which person, which the institution and practically colleagues HDZ's were most spoke of in my replica about Minister Maric, and fellow HDZ's colleagues gave the strongest arguments that the investigative commission needed and practically they returned to their first position that they had to support this investigative commission. I don't know why there's been a change of attitude today. I hope that by Friday HDZ will return to its initial position and that we will be able to investigate whether SDP means whether SDP governments, SDP ministers are responsible for this situation around Agrokor I would like to know and then I will gladly blame them all on the SDP and personally I may even be glad to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45507	Another replica, Your Honor. You didn't answer, I'm sorry. You have to pick up. No, come on, let's take care of it because there are rules. I didn't make them, they write in the Rules of Procedure. The other one's a colleague of Sincic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45508	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, my colleagues, you were talking about an Italian case where the investigation went very high, where some important people were arrested. But if you noticed, I just clapped on Mr. Shucker when he said that we wouldn't believe DORHU RH. I mean, I don't know what to say to that, DORH in my work, as far as I've followed it, it's such a litter of corruption, nepotism, conjecture, inaction, whatever you want. And from this pay phone, I've talked about it in a number of cases, and I've been quoting criminal charges, whatever you want. And I've been waiting two years for more representatives of the state's attorney's office to come here but nothing. Now, I don't have any trust in the DORH, if one institution doesn't work in this country it's the state's attorney's office right now. Furthermore, as for the laws passed to please Todorovic, this country has already been, for 2, 3 decades, built around Agrokor. Instead of being controlled by Agrokor, Agrokor let go of the tentacles and sent people on assignment here, for example Mr. Maric said the laws were built around Agrokor and Agrokor controlled by the state instead of the opposite. And here, I invite you, I think you mentioned which government did it, so here's when the day... The 21st of December was then your government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tax reform has in many things led to the favor of Ivica Todorovic, the reduction of the re-promatter tax, the forgiveness of credit, several more items. The factoring law, the Accounting Change Act, as you and your club voted for those laws, also ask yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45509	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45510	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sincic, you should know that on the matter of tax reform we changed everything that we could then change within as many hands as we had in the Parliament. So all that mattered to our citizens, to the prices of milk, bread, books, medicines. So these are all the things that we've just affected to change, not to stay as they've been drawn. If we had all 76 hands, believe me, half that tax reform would have been changed, unfortunately we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45511	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45512	Thank you, Mr. President. You colleagues often mention that you attended most meetings of the HBOR Supervisory Board, there were 3 sessions, so there is no need to speak relatively and most when there were 3 sessions. You weren't on one, you said just for these reasons that you got the materials two days earlier. Me and my colleague Marijana Balić were alternate members, you could have invited us as alternate members, or you should have, or some procedure was supposed to be there to have someone change you on that supervisory board and you didn't. But now we're in the 7th month, in two days you couldn't read the materials and I believe you. But in the 7th month, I expected you to give us information in front of the club to justify these views and concrete data, not to return to the old debates. We've already talked here about Minister Maric's trust, the factoring companies, so I expected you to study these materials by 7 months, because it's been more than two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45514	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Rosčić, you should first know that all that is above number 1 is plural, plural, you should first know this in terms of years, work experience and professional preparation. And the other thing, I've read these materials, of course, that I've read them a long time ago, so after I've got them and I think if you need to convince you of the material that shows the whole situation of Agrokor in the Republic of Croatia, and that she had to react to the government, and that even today we don't know what the outcome of the extraordinary commissioner and the Law on Systemically Important Companies is going to be, I really don't know which belief you still need and Agrokor won't return the loan that he received from HBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45515	The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Sladolev's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45516	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Nincevic, your exposure could actually be, the taste of your exposure could be paraphrased by Dobriš Cesarić, who says: "Ah, no one knows anything, fragile is knowledge." But we in the debate before this point had a fact that the heads of pension funds themselves confirmed that they had started selling bonds and shares of Agrokor long before all this was happening and that it had come out in public. So we have one paradoxical fact that the pension fund directors knew more than the finance minister. And now who knew more here, here you can explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45517	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45518	... The Parliament. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I'm glad you mentioned that, I forgot that detail during the presentation, so it's true everyone knew but the minister, guess what, he didn't know. So the minister can't see what's going on around him, so he simply, since he says he didn't know, refuses to see and accept all these facts and even the one you listed, but he doesn't refuse to put that point on the agenda, he knew it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45519	Next up's a distinguished colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45520	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that there is a very great hypocrisy in this matter and that in fact they are in the error of both power and opposition and those who do not know whether power and opposition are. And I'll tell you why. You resent Agrokor because it worked in a way that he returned old loans by taking new ones, essentially. It's this endless borrowing where debt keeps growing, debt to bankruptcy. And one, the other, the third when you were in power, you ran the state the same way that Todorovic ran Agrokor. So you've had holes, you've always raised new loans. So if those credits came out, they'd be raising new loans, and so on. So you're condemning the business model of Ivica Todorovic and you've been doing it yourself. Why? Because you claim that this model of state will work. Okay. We see what the results are. And what has to happen has to happen to the state as well as to Agrokor so that you understand in your heads that this economic model is indisputable to ruin. If you don't see it yet, I don't know what to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45521	There's no response to the replica. So let's go to replica number six, dear colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45522	Dear colleagues, look at the wonders, 400 million euros has been granted a new loan, so all financial institutions are willing to take all the risks and give this company a chance to survive and that 40,000 employees have jobs, that 150 thousand different persons connected also have jobs and bread, and you as a top financial expert, do not approve. Well, you see, I think every company deserves, especially in this way, and especially this big, chance, and if you're not ready to make decisions, don't accept any supervisory board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45523	Comrade Bulj, I beg you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45524	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Peric, just remember how many banks wanted to lend credit to Agrokor before the government was behind him with the law. Let's get out of here. I think we're done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45525	The seventh replica, dear colleague Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45526	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Ivana, would you ask if you think a sick man hurts less if he is aware that there are more sick people in the world? What am I saying? HDZ has been doing this very successfully for years. So when we talk about someone being a thief, they always find another thief. We are now talking about something and we would very much like to talk about the problem of Kutla, Gucic, the Kosutić brothers, everyone else, and put it on the agenda and discuss it. But in this situation, I would turn the story or look at it from another angle and that's the question of power. In a similar way, many would be willing to kill for power. We've got an example of our colleague from this HNS horse who's swallowed up a lot of things, and what he's about to swallow to be in power, and that's just their right. And now we're coming to you from the Most, and you're not immune to that either. And you love power, they would say to us in Slavonia "You love power as a turkey worm." However, if you leave 4 ministries, if you leave power, influence, courts, public enterprises, then you really have a fat reason for it, and I believe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45527	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45528	Here's to this swallowing of everything and everything for power, I think you're both far ahead of us and we can't put ourselves on the same line with you at all. And on this point, I think our two-time exit from the government has certainly shown what we care about and how important this power really is to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45529	Okay. Replica number eight, dear fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45530	... President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Ninčević-Lesandric, I would now call this post-memory. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Why? So Agrokor has existed for 20 years in this country, where all institutions, means constant control, audits, all 20 years have been controlled by Agrokor and no one has specifically asked questions. However, this government government, for a year, raised a question and tried to save one of the largest Croatian companies on the market, which, if it collapsed, would go bankrupt, left 30,000 from the Croatian people on the road. As far as we can see, the investigative commission you're looking for, I don't think it's a bad thing, but since we have our institutions and the DORH that's already entered that building, which already works, means it's been working on those papers, it takes at least a year to prove who's guilty, which is guilty, but we condemn it in advance, and we know it all. You say 300 million kunas were thrown. No, gentlemen, that's not 300 million kuna, it's given to Agrokor so that these people and Agrokor stay and those people who are in Agrokor, that's what our workers spent. And that company. If the bank has now given 400 million new loans, it means it considers the company serious. If that company stays on the market, and we hope it will, all 300, 400 million will return and the state will return 300 million credits that it is. It is very important for this company to the Croatian state, whether Ivica Todorovic will end up in prison or not, that is not my problem, the problem is to determine whether this company is in trouble and whether there are any criminal needs, let the DORH do so. And we later and those especially who went into politics yesterday and who don't really deal with anything, we know everything and solve all the problems as they do... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45531	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45532	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend, this has nothing to do with trust in the DORH, but this has to do with our experience for the past 25 years, and we've seen everything in this country. And this statement of yours about the investigation committee, you're actually saying that whoever's been bailing, bailing out, and let's keep it that way, why would we now be investigating who stole it, who took the houses, the loans, the money, the land, the stocks, I don't know what, and put it back, we're not going to leave it to those who took it, we're going to look for ways by taking from our citizens, raising taxes, so we're going to solve the problems in our country. Here, I wouldn't agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45533	The ninth replica, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45534	Thank you very much. My colleagues Ivana, you mentioned Minister Marić several times in your debate, I will tell you that our intensity and we are not focused on Minister Marić, this is a much wider area and if we were to call on the DORH then we would have no reason to establish any investigative committee. Because wherever there's a suspicion of crime we can always tell the DORH will investigate it. These are Mr. Muscle's ridiculous replicas. He says we have a DORH. Then why do we even have a law on investigative committees? What do we need that for? Well, then, all DORH can investigate. Why do we have anything? So on that side, those are arguments when a man wants to hide himself from the truth. The easiest thing to say is we have the DORH and it's all settled. There's a legitimate public interest here. Whoever calls on the DORH indirectly says he has no confidence in the Croatian Parliament, no confidence in the MPs, no trust in the highest institution in this country. Watch out people say we have institutions? And what is the Parliament? The Parliament isn't an institution? The council doesn't have legal powers? The Parliament doesn't represent anyone? This seems to me to be a bad attempt to hide the facts from the Croatian public. That's what people will understand, and that's why we can't agree to it. It's more important to us than two, three human solutions. If we have to wait until all constitutional judges are out of office, eight years, eight years, no matter. People have a right to know that. I don't believe it, and I don't understand how you in HDZ won't accept it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45535	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45536	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Maras, is not an invitation to Minister Maric, but simply talks about the investigative commission of Agrokor that you must touch the Minister of Finance, so you must touch the chairman of the Supervisory Board, so you must touch the loan we have new knowledge of yesterday. And with all these situations, actually Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45537	Next replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45538	Comrade Nincevic, it is clear here that the commission and yours, by addressing the club as well as the predecessor from the HDZ on the left and right that the commission here is unanimous that it will be voted because we see the HDZ saying that it was during the SDP government around Agrokor and SDP HDZ. So here it will be unanimous and it should be unanimous only what the commission needs to do and as far as criminal charges are concerned, I'm personally, I said I've filed a criminal report, it's my right. And also the money for the '91 weaponry. which was taken in Sinj. And it's clear where Tedechi was involved, and of course, I've raised a criminal report four times without a problem. The DORH he handles doesn't work I don't know, but Sinju's money has not been returned, nor has Trilj, because it is part of the Trile's money co-worker Šipic could have known. I know they were in power back then, and I know that all the time in Sinj and most of those municipalities are people who are in HDZ. Why and this commission investigated. So there's no problem with what my colleague Culey said about this. I personally raised the meaning of criminal charges to the DORH, but the commission is something else. And why not the commission? Let's see the responsibility of the ministers who have been exempted, especially the ministers when the battle is in charge when they are excluded. It's the same as General Culey will understand, my colleague. Imagine if you were in command, you'd be excused in the battle and then you'd be back in command again. Would you like to come in front of a soldier? No, you wouldn't. So in this case, colleagues Maric, but this is my personal position, as well as previous finance ministers who were in the Stability Council. ... Governors, HANFA, all the ministers sitting here will have to come before that investigative committee and say what they need to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course there's... the nature of the people in this commission and therefore there are no problems and we are going to continue to build this story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45539	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45540	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You have well noticed colleague Bulj this is, in fact, going to be one very rare situation that all MPs will support this proposal and indeed we should all be equally important to explore the whole process of Agrokora. So, from the beginning to the last day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45541	The next replica is a respected counterpart, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45542	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesandric, here I read in the DORH newspaper occupied the entire floor of Agrokor, investigators work every day. Well, then we need a second statement from international experts to get everything that can appear there. And now we're listening to you and your colleague Maras, you say you'll handle it even though recently when we talked about the HBOR report, you found that you weren't able to get the material a few days before, so that you could come to a session and vote for a certain decision. Do you estimate that this investigative commission will work without paper? There are going to be a few trucks of paper that someone has to pass, all members of the commission. Do you consider yourself capable of that? Because the DORH says they work every day and they still need international experts. If that's the case here I'll say first I won't be a member of that committee, I'm not capable, I'm not capable. But good. Secondly, the fact is it's not the goal of Agrokor. We have now seen from SDP and MOST that Maric's goal is a re-try. And that's okay. But say so, because you've brought all the debates down to the latest HBOR and credit. And where's your colleague Dobrović? We're reading a statement in the paper that voted for HBOR's loan. It's gone today. But we have a ton of notes, so we'll see who's lying. If he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. And we'll clear that up. And as for the international expert team, here's my suggestion that my colleague Cvitan is not going across the border, we have experts in the Parliament of colleagues Maras, Grmoja, Miro, you and I think you're capable of disintegrating it and then informing us about investigations and results. As long as it doesn't end up as an investigation committee in case of an affair truck where innocent men are, they find the investigation committee guilty. The Court Condemned Him [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And the man I was without a mandatory apology to that man. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45543	Thank you. ... Come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45544	I didn't understand this ending of yours. I think you're a little lost about these trucks. Of course, no one expects the Commission to make a decision within 2 days based on all events since the start of the Agrokor process, so you didn't understand that part very well. But what I understand very well, which is that you care about this, because you just said that SDP's governments are guilty and that's good actually. It's one of the nicest things I've ever experienced in this House, which is that we all really care about something being explored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45545	We're going to the last line. Dear colleague Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45546	My colleague Ninčević, you have expressed your opinion and I have no intention of trying to change it at all, nothing, I would have told you something else. Therefore, this state establishes independent, regulatory agencies, independents who control a particular system. So you have the HANFA that controls the non-banking financial sector. You have a report for 2014, which was adopted in this House of Commons. But it's very interesting, those reports when they're going, when they're shooting, then they go to the government first, so the government has their opinions, so we're discussing in the Parliament. And you know what your report says? He says, while they bought a total of 15.2 billion kunas from the discount bonds, he tells you, in conclusion, on 31 December 2014. RH, are dominated business with the purchase of bonds. I'd ask you to listen, so you can answer me. So, very interestingly, this House has discussed this report, it has been adopted, that no one has said a word. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is... or give your opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for the 2015 HANFA report, they said there were no objections. But if we're looking at this whole Agreocor story right now, this particular segment is the most controversial. This segment is the most controversial. These regression bonds, and now I ask all of you colleagues and colleagues, is it more important for us to fight politically or watch a model and how to save 100,000 jobs? We can fight as much as we want, but if Konzum doesn't work properly over the summer and achieves tourism revenues, he'll be in trouble employees of Konzum and he'll be in trouble suppliers. Is that our priority question, or is it our priority question, this one something else? And as for fellow Maric, I think it's just funny, here are people who know very well what the procedure is in HABOR and that the chairman of the Supervisory Board is not proposing agenda points, but gets from the board a draft agenda that he sends to members of the Supervisory Board, then members of the Supervisory Board... That's true and you can say whatever you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Stupid president: colleague Shucker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45547	Thank you very much. But I'm asking you to hold on for two minutes, because there's a lot of us. Before responding to the replica, a colleague of Grmoi called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45548	Your Honor. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, so I deliberately went to see if you were going to abuse your position and when they reported at the end of the line, so, first Šuker, i.e. Boric, Shuker, and then Bulj, so Miro was the last one and I was three times again, meaning on purpose that order to see what you're going to do and you deliberately put the last two HDZ MPs. No, you need to stick to the application and registration order. If you're not gonna stick with it, if you're gonna abuse it, then tell us now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45549	Your colleague, Ninčević-Lesandric, does not report for replicas at all, but picks up afterwards. And I'm letting go, not even a plate, but raises my hand, so if you want me to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, I can do it, but then you'll probably go through your colleague Bull the worst. So please, really don't be a pain in the ass and don't go hunting for this kind of small stuff. You called in the end, all three of you, together at the same time. Come on, please. Here you go, colleague Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45550	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shucker, here I am trying to find in the HBOR Rules of Procedure, I have too little time, but I am convinced that I have read that the chairman of the Supervisory Board... But he approves of them, so then he can come to his administration and suggest I don't know what and he'll approve it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's not enough reason to justify it. That's the first thing. Secondly, the Law on Systemically Important Companies has been passed precisely to save jobs as well as suppliers, and you know very well what can be done with this law, if it is done according to plan and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and protecting all our citizens, employees and suppliers. And the third thing, which I can possibly take for you to miss because you weren't here at the assembly, we voted against the HamFA report. And ask a colleague of Bačić, who we had a show about exactly that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45551	Thank you. Just a little please, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, so that the debate may take place normally, I ask you to be correct enough, decent enough and let people speak, and then we use business regulations to answer them. This way, if we're gonna yell, throw each other away, it's not gonna look like anything. Well, here's an appeal. Let's be fair to each other. A colleague, Bačić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45552	Thank you, Mr. President. I see my colleague Pernar already has a replica. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll say a few words on behalf of the HDZ Club. First, the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee has a long name, so I will cut it short to the Agrokor concert, submitted by part of SDP's representatives, aimed at determining criminal and political responsibility. Comrade Maras, I assume you wrote this proposal, so then, you know very well what you wrote. You cannot speak and claim to seek political responsibility for non-political people and you are here seeking the responsibility of all those involved in the Agrokor concert process. Therefore, I agree that we can talk about the political responsibility of the Minister, Prime Minister, HBOR Director, HBOR Management President, so persons who draw their legitimacy from decisions and appointments of the Croatian Parliament. But I think the purpose of this commission is a little bit wider than that, that we here expect to determine responsibility and persons who are not politicians, who are businessmen. We can't talk about the political responsibility of the economy, we can talk about his criminal responsibility. Therefore, we are also going to this research committee to determine criminal responsibility because they have damaged the budget, because they have done illegal actions, because they have led the relevant institution of the Republic of Croatia astray, and that is political responsibility, that is criminal responsibility. We are therefore going to determine criminal responsibility because it is very difficult to find and establish public interest in a private company. But given this, I admit to you, that you are bonding, and that is the only link, that you are bound by the Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, you have managed to collect that public interest. And I respect that, and I appreciate that, and that is the greatest achievement of this motion for a decision. If we are talking about criminal responsibility, then at this point, the only institution in Croatia that can determine the criminal responsibility is doing it right now, much better than we would do here because this body that you propose to establish will be the sole political body in which the majority will have the right hand side of the assembly and will be able to decide what will be done and when will be done, and you must be aware that it is a political decision. When we talk about criminal responsibility, I am not inclined to have parliamentary representatives decide on the criminal responsibility of non-political persons, for whom a judicial system has been arranged in this country by the police institutions, USKOK, the Tax UskoK, the DORH, etc. If we're talking about political responsibility, I agree, and you're right, you're going with this document that I'm going to say one more thing about later, but no one prevents the opposition from having a faster tool that fellow Peja knows very well, a faster tool to determine political responsibility. You had a chance and you tried and it didn't go away. You tried to determine the political responsibility of the finance minister, failed in the process because you were wrong. And today, I am convinced that Minister Maric acted properly and legally for a year and a half of his mandates in one and another government. If the goal is someone else, and these days through a break in Parliament we hear that it is not only Minister Maric's goal, but that the goal is both Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, then you have an even faster tool, you have a faster tool than this. You have faster tools that give you the Rules of Procedure so run this tool, determine the responsibility of political and Plenkovic and Dalićka and Marić. Although it would take six months to wait after you failed to vote him out of confidence. The second thing, what I want to say especially here, and what I think the opposition is wrong, which I am not sorry because what you're doing is showing the ratings of the last days of research conducted by the relevant Croatian agencies to explore the popularity of political parties. But you here and I have circled it you want to resolve the issue that the investigating committee should examine, which is why the government has decided to propose a Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia and how the process of preparing the law has run. Looking at today after three months, after that law was passed I can understand that you wrote it at one point when you believed that what the government was doing was bad. No matter what you had no solution except to claim that we should only intervene in the Pre-Fraud settlement Act, or today in the Banking Law, you wrote it only a few days after we passed this law believing that this law would destroy Agrokor, that this law was bad, that this law was unsuspecting as you said, that this law would bring down the Constitutional Court, that this law was not worth anything. And I say to you that the law proposed by the Government and adopted by the Croatian Parliament is impeccable intervention in the economy, unmarked from the creation of a democratic Croatia, unmarked. And if you're not aware of that, I'm sorry, my colleague Grmoya, I'm sorry because if we hadn't intervened with this law, it wouldn't have been 5.2% of industry growth, it wouldn't have been 15% in May when Agrokor was not yet recovered. Whether this law is required or not, ask the employees of Agrokor. When you talk about the interest of the Croatian public, what public, I am interested in what public? Is it possible that the 40,000 employees in Croatia who received the salary have been blocked? The entire system was blocked to three billion kunas. The most important companies, food companies in Croatia in the sector and in the system of concerts were on their knees, blocked with over 3 billion, completed by law with 322 million kuna, completed. If the law hadn't been passed, if it hadn't been for the wall around Agrokor, we'd have 35,000 people at the Bureau for employment. No bankruptcy, a colleague named Peja Grbin could say better than I could, 70 companies in the system would overload the Croatian judiciary, and this is how difficult it is to solve cases. Commercial courts are at this rate, that 70 company bankruptcy would have resolved for years. Who would take over these companies, so that what's left of Agrokor, of the employees, that question should be asked to the people who work there. 10 thousand OPGs are related to Agrokor, I don't think there are farmers in Croatia or there are very few, or very few that are not related to the Agrokor system. Agrokor participates in the agriculture and food industry in Croatia so much that no other company can be measured in Croatia. And because of that if something was done to save employees' interest, to save the interest of Croatian agriculture, to save the interest of the Croatian food industry, through them the state budget, I would ask you how damaged the state budget would be if we had put 35,000 people on the employment office. What would that mean for the state budget? Therefore, the Agrokora Business Stabilisation Project is something that you should give credit to and for the investigative committees, it's for the responsibility of all the time you want. Today, I'm wondering why, I don't know, I'm asking the state's attorney from this pay phone, why he said today, and I'm asking the same question, why today he said he wouldn't be helped by an investigative commission. And it won't help him either, and you and we know it very well. At this point, investigations are being carried out to determine responsibility in Agrokor, criminal responsibility. It won't determine DORH's political responsibility, that's what we people will determine and we can do it every day, whenever you want, you can ask the government's responsibility question and we'll discuss it. But it's a fact that scouts and investigations are being conducted in the case of possible criminal, corrupt acts in Agrokor. We think that this investigative committee will do us no good, it won't do us any good, it'll interfere with the only investigation that's based on the laws, and that's an investigation conducted by the DORH. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm going to say something that I think is holding water and that the lawyers, they'll probably think it through later, after my presentation, well. The law establishing investigative committees was passed in 1996 at a time when Croatia had a different organised judiciary. When the law was then in criminal proceedings, when all criminal procedural law in Croatia was organised differently, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was completely different and then we, not us, but our colleagues who were legislators in this same Assembly, were to '96. They said that they would not set up an investigative committee after the trial process has been opened. At that time, if such a request had been filed, it would probably have been immediately rejected because it would have already involved the judge of the investigation and it would have been a court case. This, given that we have entered the EU, that we have given great powers to the state's attorney, great powers, that the state's attorney is today conducting the entire investigation procedure, at this point instead of the judicial procedure that would have been done at the time when the law was passed now by the state's attorney, it is now a state's attorney's investigation. I'm not a lawyer, so maybe I'm wrong, but let's just think about what law enforcement was about when he was doing the Law on Investigative Commissions. The urgency was not to interfere with the justice policy because it does him harm, because it complicates his procedure, because it makes him a public investigation that must be a secret. Do you think that the investigating committee would conduct the procedure in accordance with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. on criminal proceedings, or we would make this procedure public, available to everyone and everyone. On the one hand, the State Attorney's Office would carry out a procedure where any witness involved would commit to keeping his statement but on the other hand, two kilometres from the Croatian Parliament's State Attorney's Office and question the same witnesses and make their statements publicly available, thus bringing witnesses' statements, etc., etc. HDZ dear friends have no doubts or reason to guard anyone involved in this procedure, no one, we have no problem with that. And because we don't have a problem, we don't fear that's what those who know, who can, who are educated, professional, invited, whatever you want. If it were bad, if HDZ were in the interest of disrupting the investigation, tomorrow it would start with this work. And instead of sinking the papers, the documents stay in the Agrokor Tower, bring them here. Obstructing the investigation of all possible studies, daily, weekly, to the extent that they would destroy that investigation that can only determine who is really, if he has, made a concert the way he did and brought him here where he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45553	Thank you. I just didn't understand who was who...? ... Okay, we have 16 replicas, but before that, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45554	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a violation of Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because my colleague bačić, once, I am convinced by an unwary statement and I believe when he now hears in what context he has said that he will understand why I am saying it, he has diminished and even offended the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, a respected colleague of yours said that a political decision could be made, you said that in the investigative committee, by the power of the majority, decisions were made regardless...... Yes, you said exactly that, that you have a majority and that you can make a decision however you want, allow just one more sentence, however you want. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I believe that it was not an intensities, I believe that you are also the attitude that representatives who are members of the investigative committee, regardless of which parties they come from, should decide solely on the basis of the facts and evidence that are in front of them, and not on the basis of their political belongings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45555	Comrade Grbin, you know this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've used this little abuse of the Rules of Procedure now, but, well, let it be. Let's go to the replicas, the first to come forward was a distinguished colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45556	Your Excellency, President Jandrokovic. I would like to refer to Mr. Bačić's thesis that the Agrokor Act has somehow been avoided, that Agrokor was saved. However, the truth is that by law special, no bankruptcy was avoided but delayed by 15 months of which 3 had already passed. Now what's going on? The only way Agrokor could function in some way, in some of the laws, was to raise new loans again. And now what happened? These new loans were provided by vulture funds, they allegedly gave, I don't know, 300, 500 million euros, and what's going on? These vulture funds will now have thanks to the law, the billing championship. And if they're gonna have a billing championship, that means somebody else won't. And finally, for that amount of, say, 500m euros, that is, they asked for plus for each euro of new loans and euro loans from before, so a billion euros will be charged by vultures before everyone else. What does that mean? You'll be in a situation where it'll be 15 months, and the suppliers will be left without the money, that the state will be left without the money, that everyone will be left without the money, except for the vultures. The vultures will be charged. And in fact, you haven't solved anything. You've only delayed the inevitable with the goal of ultimately calming the vultures, bearing in mind that the elections are three months away. And it was actually a pre-election move that essentially won't solve the Agrokor problem, which you're all aware of from the finance minister onward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45557	Thank you, Your Highness. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45558	Col. Pernar, you're talking about roll-up financing, about 480 million euros that the credit took over Agrokor, and which credit made it possible on one side to pay the salaries, fill the shelves, normal functioning of the companies in the system and jamnica and PIK and Belja etc., etc., Zvezda. The project that allowed the normal season to be conducted in Croatia, had it not been to preserve the concert as it is, would have been a major problem in the functioning of the tourist season, there is a space along the coast where Agrokor is the only mall, as it would be, I do not want to speculate about it. But what's done is done in accordance with the law. And such a decision that banks that needed to help Agrokor, made and so far paid 400m euros, were confirmed by the Commercial Court that it was in accordance with the law. And we, as representatives, have voted on this, that every financial institution that at the most important moment for Agrokor, and that moment when it needs help, will restart the process of production and sales and all that is and will have so-called. Seniority, which means that these funds will have priority in the event of bankruptcy. You heard an extraordinary commissioner who said Agrokor is now far from bankruptcy. And I am convinced that it is far away and we will try to hold a thematic debate about Agrokor for a month here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45559	Thank you. Second replica, honorary colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45560	Thank you, Mr. President. So first of all, what you're saying is very interesting. The principle of seniority. However, this principle of seniority does not apply only to money paid directly to Agrokor, but according to the roll-up model that is not in the law, beware, the roll-up in the law is gone, there is no colleague, there is none, according to the roll-up model, refers to so much more. So all along with that first loan that was received, it's over a billion euros that are in the principle of seniority. In the meantime, Agrokor remains without property, remains without property in Slovenia, part of what Sberbank has charged forcibly, and in part by the fact that the Slovenian state has banned any transaction from Slovenia, Mercator, towards Croatia without a single word of objection. He runs out of property in Serbia, runs out of property in BiH, all of which will be charged, from assets in the Republic of Croatia, and who, at the expense of those who do not have the right to seniority. And do you know which one is one of those who doesn't have the right to seniority? Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Among other things, these 48.3m euros we're talking about, but that's not all we'd say. Because from the window number two we have previously loans from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so their total exposure to Agrokor is 600 million kuna which we will not get because of the seniority of the roll hope and the extraordinary administration process. If those 600 million kunas were invested elsewhere, elsewhere in someone who would produce, who would create a new value that would then happen? A large number of these jobs you mention would only be transformed into some other safer and not dependent on the state. Comrade Shucker, please, please, ever since you returned to the Parliament, this has become unsustainable. By the time you guys got back, all we had to do was keep an eye out for the guys who were friends with Bulja, and now we have to take care of yours. Please! Please don't! The last thing I'm going to say is one question, here's a colleague of Bacic's. What happened from 4 months to today is that you no longer consider it Establishment of the Investigative Commission [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Here, just tell me what changed with you from four months to today? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45561	Please don't throw away, don't use hard words and be fair to each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45562	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, I have not yet heard your proposal for a solution. You know what they say is that the written book has a hundred observations, and there's not one written. What you're saying, you're talking about an unwritten book. We're talking about a book that's written, that guards employees, who protects suppliers, who protects farmers, who protects the O.P.G.s. We're talking about a book that fills the state budget daily, fills the state budget, doesn't do him any harm. What you're saying if he hadn't been that 600 million kuna would have been lost free of charge in bankruptcy would have been lost. This way, by continuing the process of production, I am convinced that we will slowly return not us but Agrokor of those obligations, and that there will only lose the owner who through the restructuring process, through the settlement process amongst the believers will practically be left without that property. And then both the Republic of Croatia and other creditors will be able to charge themselves if Agrokor stays above water. What you advocated or what you advocated would have long gone to the Republic of Croatia without these funds, and not to say that you would remain without the funds that today's employees and through VAT and through wages and all together create revenue to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45563	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you said in your debate that you would support the investigative committee that there are no certain items concerning criminal liability, so here I suggest you here if you have such an observation, and you are an experienced parliamentary representative and you know that the decision defines exactly what the commission is obliged to investigate here has a dozen points. If you think this point of irregularity is caused by the damage to the state budget, suggest an amendment to throw it out. Then let these others who are not related to this part of criminal responsibility remain, perhaps we are prepared to accept it. But don't say that these others are specifically related to the public's interest. So you have that kind of solution, and not the Priory throw it all away. So, you suggest an amendment if it bothers you, that provision whether any irregularities damage the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in which it will not be inside. But this whole thing needs to be inside then. And I think that that's how we can agree on it, although I assure you the public will be interested in a lot more other things than whether someone paid a tax or didn't or did something done this way or not. So here's what I'm proposing you do, and we're going to consider that as a representative club. And the other thing about these 600 million kunas that my colleague Grbin mentioned that had a certain supply and payment insurance you've legally and roll up the model suspended. So, you made sure that Croatia with this law made sure that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development never came up with that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45565	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45566	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Maras. It's our position, and that's what I've said that it's been explained by the SDP as the proposer of this decision to wait and withdraw and ask us to wait for the position of the DORH. If the DORH finds that there is a criminal responsibility, then we can no longer act because criminal charges will be filed and the trial begins. And then, if we start it and appoint it, we'll only interfere with that investigation and you know it very well. And you know this very well, we will be interrupting because in this investigation committee according to the objectives and questions to which this investigative commission will be answered by all those people, you know very well who will be invited to Gajev. Everyone, there's no one who won't be invited to Gaius, and he won't come to Parliament. And you know very well that this is how we're going to interfere with the investigation. And that's why we think it's not opportune to do it, because it's going to be much more quality, with all due respect to you and all the MPs in this House, it's going to be much more quality, more serious, more systematic to come up with all those data from the RS body that are trained to know the professionals who can use it and you know it well that already, so at least in public, I don't know, in public it's already published, using the services of experts, professionals who can deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45567	Thank you. Next replica, dear fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45568	The parliamentary investigative committees do not establish political and even less criminal responsibility, as you claim in your speech. They, the Parliament's investigation committees, determine the facts. They can, however, encourage the bodies of persecution, to finally act when they learn the facts. That's what happened in the INA case. An investigative committee was established, the DORH had kept silent until then. When everything came out on the investigative committee, the DORH initiated the procedure. That's how it was in case of an affair trucks. The DORH kept silent, then launched the procedure, after an investigative commission, then the HDZ minister was wrongly convicted, it seems to me for four years, but was legally released in a retrial. Why? Because the Supreme Court has given retrials with instructions not to determine whether the minister has accepted the most unfavourable offer, but whether he has paid more than the most unfavourable bidder has asked. Well, of course he had to be freed from that story in our justice system. Because our judiciary acts as well as persecuting bodies to seek the removal of immunity for the writing of graphite, and for the one who stole and admitted to stealing millions, if HDZ's minister, assigned... for peeling potatoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now there are several proceedings against HDZ officials and former presidents and starting in the 9th month and against Calmeta and if our judiciary continues to act this way, then Croatia will have to drastically increase the import of potatoes, because we simply do not have enough production of homemade potatoes, so that the former HDZ ministers can peel it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45569	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45570	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Stazic, not the story of the Croatian judiciary, but the story of Croatian politicians, are investigative commissions. You are one of those who suffers from the president or you were from that commission, which has brought a man to the stage of shame, accused him, in particular, of being declared a criminal, that in the end the highest supreme judicial authority in Croatia would release him from such charges that are determined here in this House against him on the basis of the information and knowledge of us politicians. When we politicians interfere in court proceedings, it ends in a way that we do irreparable life damage to someone and that the Supreme Court has freed him, and it is not enough for you today, and you haven't apologized to him yet, either, or to all the other members of the investigative committee. And you're right about one thing, neither INA nor the trucks have yet to engage in the case of one or the other affair. But that's not the case here. He's already gone far here, DORH, at least as the state's attorney says. So the DORH here has quite entered this process, in this procedure in this affair or whatever we can call it. So we don't need to tell them what they should do now, because they know much better than we know, and they're much more educated than we are. That's why I'm telling you, that our position is that we don't just repeat the affair of trucks, where we've accused people who aren't guilty, let those who know it, can determine who's guilty, how guilty they are, and who prosecuted him, and that the judiciary will give him a final verdict. We don't have a problem with that, absolutely nothing. Whoever answered, he was the minister, he was the governor, he was the director, he was what he was, let him answer in front of the Croatian judiciary. We in the HDZ, in the Croatian judiciary, give him full support to establish, process, fines in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45571	Five replicas, distinguished colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45572	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bačić, the situation with Agrokora is very sensitive and only a few months ago we had largely threatened jobs and family farms. And I get the feeling when I listen to you that the opposition listens to you, realizes that based on concrete arguments it can understand what you're saying, but that it manipulates our citizens. How can I accept this proposal, when the main argument is that Minister Maric's guilt that she was at the end of the agenda was credited to Agrokor. According to that logic, even some would have mentioned, that Minister Maric was hypocritical, as they understood he had put him on the agenda, and later he was exempt and did not vote for that point. According to that logic, many members of the opposition are presidents of some of our parliamentary committees and, of course, they give points of the agenda to the government's proposals, and later on, whether they vote or not, they abstain and vote against. According to that logic, then we can conclude that the presidents of our parliamentary committees in the opposition are responsible and responsible for the laws passed in this House. Minister Maric cannot block HBOR's work. We'd be in this situation accusing him of putting domestic companies in the hands of foreign companies. I mean, I don't understand those arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45573	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45574	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Roscic, I am not defending Minister Maric at all, nor do I have the need or reason to defend him. He's smart enough to know what happened and what's going on. From what he's accused of being president of the Agrocora Supervisory Board, I don't see him guilty. Is it my ignorance, is it my sin, I don't know, but I don't see the guilt that, as the first man of one collective body, he gave consent, on the placement of the Jamnica, the Star and the Pic Vrbovac, it seems to me, not Agrodor but to the three companies in the Agrokora system, at the request of the HBOR expert services, supported by the HBOR Credit Committee, which put this item on the agenda of the Supervisory Board, which the members of the Supervisory Board had time to think about, what these members of the Supervisory Board had their integrity, which they should have read what Minister Maric or the president of HBOR had sent them, which they could determine whether it was as it was written or if they had suspected they should have taken a break and told Mr. Chairman of the HBOR's Supervisory Board today we are not able to make a decision, let us wait for ten days. So these same members of the Supervisory Board are asking for the opinion of some economic experts and tell people to eat this well, is this what HBOR offers correctly, if we are doing this well. Well, if he hadn't listened to him, the chairman of the Supervisory Board would have asked the prime minister and told Mr. Prime Minister of your Supervisory Board and the Minister of Finance for a misdemeanor, to do it illegally, not all of them were silent. Everyone kept their mouths shut today after the thought... that it was against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45575	Thank you. 6. Replicated colleague Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45576	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bacic, this government has done the best thing this year, and this has made it an extension of the agony of Agrokor... of the country's intervention in Agrokor. I personally see it as a businessman from another point of view. If Agrokor collapsed three months ago, one 150 thousand employees related to Agrokor and their own workers today if they were on the streets and there was nothing the state system would likely have collapsed, the GDP would have certainly fallen. I sometimes cannot understand these people who criticise certain things especially when it comes to the economy, I would like someone to say that it's good if it didn't work out for Belje, I'm talking about my county and where I live in Slavonia, PIK Vinkovci, PIK Vukovar and all the other companies that are tied up in Agrokor can only imagine what would happen in the country. They can't do that. Why can't I? Here's a colleague, Stazic. He'd like to be here. His whole life is on the budget of the state, so he just doesn't know how to get paid or how he earns it, he just doesn't know. He doesn't know, and he just doesn't see what an economy is, what a businessman is, what a craftsman, what a farmer he doesn't know if he's been getting all his life, but he hasn't worked. And so there are as many of them here as you want, both written and illiterate and lawyers, but they haven't touched the economy, they haven't rolled their hands and earned their wages. And to earn another, who here has earned others? A little, very few people. I don't know if there's anyone else I've been making for 40 years and I know what the economy is. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45577	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Music. It seems to me that you told me that he extended his agony or maybe I misheard it. It did not, in my opinion, prolong the agony, but as a sword, it cut the Gordian knot and the problem was, the agony that was at that point was stopped. If it hadn't been for bankruptcy tsunamis, we have to be aware that if that law hadn't been passed, there would have really been a wave of bankruptcy, and in order for them to be resolved, if they had been resolved, if these people had come back to work, what would have been the fate of both employees and OPG's agricultural producers and all those in the system, I couldn't imagine it. That's why I've been supporting this law since day one, which doesn't mean that by passing this law, we release anyone from responsibility. And that's why we're not against the investigation committee, and that's what our SDP colleagues don't want to understand, we're not against the investigation committee. We think at this point it's counterproductive, it's our HDZ position. The HDZ has no problem with the research committee, none of them, I personally have no problem in determining the responsibility of any minister, MPs, on days and days, of whom everyone in this system knows. But I'm convinced and common sense suggests that an investigative committee would interfere with the work of the investigation, interfere with the work of the investigating committee, or interfere with the work of the DORH, it would interfere. What I can say without the intention of meddling in the work of the DORH, I call upon the DORH to complete the procedure as soon as possible, and I realize that as I speak, I know that there are tons, hills of documentation, 73 companies are people in that system. The whole paperwork needs to be tested. I'm running out of time, so we're not afraid and we're not against the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45579	Thank you, colleague Bacic. The next replica is Parliament representative Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45580	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Bačić, listening to your presentation and these answers to the replicas on several occasions, you replied that you are not against the establishment of this commission and I simply cannot understand why you are opposed at this time. You mention, of course, that it will interfere with the D.O.R.H.'s investigation, you don't think you're relevant to say who's going to interfere with this investigation. I think establishing a commission is the same thing that we all want to agree on, which is that we need to save jobs. It's all in the first place. And it is hard for me to accept that you have reduced it to some kind of politicisation, and it is some kind of democratic culture that was established here in the Croatian Parliament, where the opposition is given the opportunity to propose the establishment of investigative committees. And your party, when it was in opposition, founded them and no one has slowed it down for you at all, and you are now slowing it down despite you trying to do some kind of detour to justify yourself. I will finish with this about Minister Maric, yes, of course it is connected very much to Agrokora, we can't escape from it, the political responsibility of Minister Maric existed the moment his impeachment started, you said in your statement here it didn't pass you by, that's it. Yeah, it's true it didn't pass and it was all legitimate. How moral it was for us to talk about it. Many from your assembly, I believe, did not feel very well at the time of the vote because you well know whose vote it depended on that impeachment of Minister Maric not to pass. So I must conclude that in some way you do not give the debate, that you suspend a public interest that is obvious here and think about still supporting this proposal to set up an investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vesligaj, for your reply to the replica, Mr. Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Vesligaj, I'm going to tell you again, we're not against the investigative committee, we're not against the investigative committee, we're against the investigative committee at this point. We have no problem continuing the investigation committee after the process has been completed by the DORH. If the DORH finds that there is no criminal responsibility he will not press charges against anyone but it does not cross us then to establish through the investigative committee the political responsibility of each of those participants in the development of concerts that we think he has acted against the laws of the Republic of Croatia, which is why he is obliged to bear political responsibility. So we're not against it. The other thing, which I absolutely disagree with. I don't agree with you that the Bureau of Investigation will save jobs. These jobs will save the front row management structure, the employees of the concerts. These jobs will be preserved by OPGs, agricultural producers if they have confidence in the concert, in Konzum, in all those buyers of their products. And I think that in the peace that we want to give them, to work, to provide them with that roll-up loan that was given to them that was the best way and you know it was already the biggest part, almost 100% were paid out small suppliers, the O.P.G.s in full. By the end of July, all micro and small entrepreneurs whose total annual income of 5.2 million kuna will be paid annually in full. Therefore, this loan that we are now dealing with here, from the reports of the administration, the temporary administration and the interim commissioner, slowly results in a return of trust in Agrokor, the functioning of both Konzum and all units in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45583	Thank you very much. Next replica, MP Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45584	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I agree with you in that part of the debate where you said that the proposal of this investigative committee and the decision to set up this investigation committee was actually a reaction of the SDP to a disastrous position when we talked about the Law on Systemically Important Companies and the way they then explained why this concert had to go to Agrokor and why they wanted 40,000 people to end up running on the labour market and that they simply didn't know how to answer it, then this reaction went. Why do I say that? Let us look at the document ourselves, see what it says at the end and who is in the signature, President of the Croatian Parliament Bozo Petrov. It's been three months, but Bozo Petrov is no longer president of the Parliament. A lot happened in the meantime, and of course we're discussing it now. Let's remember the attitude and the MOST, the MOST was for lex Agrokor. Why? Because they were aware of the need to keep 40,000 jobs. Today they're in a coalition with the SDP and they're asking to examine everything that's written here. Look what it says here, let's listen. First, as well as the circumstances of the Agrokor concert, it grew to this day and especially how the privatisation process of companies that became an integral part of the concerts that formed before Croatia was left alone. How many witnesses, how many tons of paper. The second point, as it was respecting laws relating to payment of debt claims by Agrokor and companies owned by it according to its suppliers, how many witnesses, how many tons of paper. Furthermore, what was the quality of the accounting reporting of Agrokor concerts and its companies, etc. 13 points, gentlemen, dear. Do you really think that nine members of Parliament can do 13 points of this investigation? It's a mission, gentlemen. It's an impossible mission in all the teaching. It's impossible, we don't get carried away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45585	Thank you very much. The answer is not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that the representatives of MOST are in the same position and that is to support and support the Law on the procedure of extraordinary administration, i.e. lex Agrokor. There are small gaps, I agree with you, on the one hand, seeking and supporting this investigative commission primarily because of the fact that no initiative has been passed that they supported around Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić, but originally I think MOST supports the Lex Agrokor Act today. That is why I am even more surprised that we are discussing today in order to examine through this investigative committee the circumstances of the creation of the law itself because this law we worked together with our then coalition partners from the Most. I've been to some meetings when it was agreed just to go according to this law to save the financial and economic system of the Republic of Croatia. So in that part, I agree with you, but I disagree with the part where MOST asks today and once again to recycle a story that we discussed two days ago when we questioned Minister Maric's trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45587	Thank you very much. Next replica, MP Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, he insists that of all the companies that are part of Agrokora and is more than 30% of the production companies. So they're not insignificant companies, they're production companies that create a new value, it's very important. And besides, what you've mentioned before and you should say again that 10 thousand OPGs have been paid to the full of old debts, and that large suppliers will be paid in 50 percent, which is not saving the entire entire system and what is no way to function and that the company as such survives?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45589	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45590	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Peric, according to traffic, it is better to say according to the incomes of Agrokora 70% is Konzum, and the remaining 30% is agriculture and food. So that's very important because it's productive if we consider the Consum a service activity, then 30% of the Agreocora income is agriculture and nutrition, so, as you said yourself, food companies. What's important, that these companies are already today, it's very important and it's within the reach of that law, and the companies you mentioned in the production or food or that are agricultural, are already at a level above the revenues that were made before the crisis itself in Agrokor. The consum is not yet at that level, the Consum still has not reached its results according to the Emergency Administration data, but the fact that the Consum is already hiring, the fact that I did not say that in the Agrokora system 6 thousand employees will receive an 8% higher salary on August 1st. So 6 thousand employees with the lowest salary in the concert will increase the salary of 8%, so all this is data, all this is good data that says that this law has been hit, and that at least it should be commended for the adoption of this law, and not for that reason to establish an investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45591	Thank you very much. Next replica representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45592	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned among other things in your debate that the commission he has as proposed in this SDP proposal, 9 members, of course under the '96 Research Commissions Act. year, power to have most, it's known, it's now this new power after recombination. However, that is not the case, you can put your opinion in the final opinion in the final report that you will present in the Assembly, and therefore, by revote, you will not be able to choke another opinion or another opinion, it is simply not disabled. We could discuss the very law on investigative committees, which is how I work for the Immunological Institute, and I see more and more that the law needs to be complemented, and there is also the mention of the other House of Representatives that has long been abolished, so it hasn't been changed since then. As for the other thing, you said this law was a rescue project. We'll see about that in 15 months, or 12 plus three months when the law expires, we can't give a final court at this hour, we can't draw a line at all. We can do that at the very least when this law does its part. If we go in the direction of bankruptcy with liquidation or bankruptcy with reconstruction or something else, we'll see it, but at this point we can't say that we're successful. We can't take a huge loan now, pay for everything, we've had a week of great time, and then we've been able to say it. Which is after a year. So let's look at the problem as a whole, let's not patch it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45593	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45594	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, you yourself have said that the law has already become obsolete, that it is still talking about the institution of the County House, that it is not yet in line with the other laws in the Republic of Croatia, that this law on investigating committees requires a thorough revision, an amendment, would say, requires a new law and that you are absolutely right. You're saying that no bankruptcy has been avoided, but it's prolonged, I disagree with you, I think the bankruptcy has been avoided, that he is behind us, and good thing that this bankruptcy didn't happen, well that this law has come, but what I agree with you, no more concerts. After 12 and plus 3, as the law or Lex Agrokor predicts, a settlement will be made and a restructuring of the concerts will take place. That concert can't be any more, and it's good not to be like that. A mastodon like this doesn't need Croatia, and it shouldn't have happened, I agree with the proposer, it shouldn't have happened, it was better if I didn't, so he happened. So we said by law, and here I disagree with you, we said by law that we would change it, that through the settlement, there would be a change in the organisation of that system through restructuring. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: I please, please, thank you very much.]] And that should be left to people who know it, who do it, and we'll have a series of opportunities to comment on whether it's good, whether it's bad, how it's done, if it's possible it's better. And to you as one of the leaders of the opposition, if you're not satisfied with what you're doing right now, you have a lot of instruments and tools in this House through a number of points that you can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45595	Thank you very much, Commissioner Bacic, thank you very much. Replica counsel Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45596	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Bačić, well, I'm going to quote a part of a sentence that you said "if it wasn't for the wall around Agrokor," I really think it's a wall around Agrokor and it's being built today, and this particular fear of this investigative commission is that there's no Pandora's box behind that wall, which if it opened up, which if anyone knew what came out of it. That's what the public thinks, sit down with ordinary people, and that's exactly how they comment on it. If you know a sit-down with ordinary people, it's those who make 2, 2 and a half thousand kunas or who don't have a job or who did business with Agrokor, so they waited a year to make them worth it. The second sentence I would quote is Agrokor keeps the O.P.G. And then tell me why the 100 grand of O.P.G. went missing. As Mr. Misic has given himself the right to talk about the holdings, I am giving myself the right to talk about the OPG. Do you know how much one O.P.G. was waiting for his money he gave to Agrokor, and he had no one else to give it to? That Agrokor dictated the market for agricultural products, and even repromated, and that he introduced these standards of non-payment to the OPGs, we have the situation we have, that our members of the OPG have already gone to work in Germany because they realized that with this kind of policy in this country of happiness there is no. We're talking about the guilt of two people, Ivica Todorovic and Minister Maric. I think there are far more people involved in this whole story around Agrokor and I don't think it's the only Ivica Todorovic who's decided and worked where it's going to go and he's not the only one who created it. But you can't even convince small children in kindergarten that Minister Maric, former director of one of the largest firms, one of Ivica Todorovic's most powerful men has just come to the post of finance minister of one of the most important ministries in this government. And right now, before the collapse of Agrokor and what happened. I don't think the kids in kindergarten believe it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45597	Thank you very much. Replica response, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know a colleague of Lenart from where you're entitled to be called upon to little ordinary people... I don't see who gives you the right, where do you draw that right, on what grounds do you even speak? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not clear to me. I'd like you to explain to me how you know better than the little man thinks of me. I don't get it. Because I live with those same people every day like you do. I don't think I know you better than you do, but I also don't think you know me better than I do. What O.P.G. are you talking about? There are over a hundred thousand OPGs in Croatia today. Agrokor is bound to 10,000, is bound to Agrokor, 10000 OPG is directly bound to Agrokor. And I said that there was a large, almost no farmer in Croatia who, in one way or another, produced his products directly, either through his cooperatives, or through his companies where he has employees in Agrokor. And if it hadn't been for this kind of Agrokor, these 10,000 would have been very, very difficult to feel because of the crisis in Agrokor. Therefore, since you are already presenting these data, when you are behind them, you still need to ask a little better questions. And I think the battle for Agrokor was also a battle for employees, but no less a battle for 150,000 people who are in one way or another leaning on a concert.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45599	Thank you very much. The next replica of representative Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45600	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bacic, that indeed the law allowed the entire system to be destroyed overnight and not only for us in HDZ to talk about the positive effects of the law. Surely in the same way the employees of Agrokor and all the suppliers of the OPGs, all who at the moment somehow got one piece of the leg they had, which was a commitment to them. And in some ways, I think that in this respect, the opposition, so all of us on the left, right, the center should be on the same line of defense as they say. This is neither the HDZ nor the SDP nor the Most. This is a question of Croatia. I don't think anyone should throw the plungers under their feet when it comes to this situation that we should all push in the direction that it works, that we should be happy that here today there's a chance that there's a real situation that can be solved positively. As far as the investigation committee is concerned, you're right. We have no fear of an investigative commission, but I personally fear the creation of a parallel system. Do we who create institutions give them authority over certain powers? Today we question the work of these institutions by requiring the establishment of an investigative commission. Do we feel that a political investigative commission can do a better job than people who are professionals? I don't think we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45601	Thank you. Commissioner Bacic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelkovac, you said exactly what I was about to say, and that's that we don't have a problem with that. HDZ has no problem with the investigative committee just saying, just what counterpart Maras says we don't think it's good at the moment. We will propose a conclusion, we will propose a conclusion by the end of the debate. I hope that the SDP colleagues will support us in this, and that is to delay the establishment of an investigative commission until the issue of the DORH investigation is resolved. I think that's the proposal that we're going to try to arrange for the investigative commission to start working on the moment it closes, whatever the investigation conducted by the DORH is concluded. And that's absolutely smart for us. It is especially good, if only your goal is political responsibility. Therefore, the responsible persons will not escape anywhere after the DORH has concluded that through the investigative committee, we will, in a very clear way, as the colleague said, interfere with the work of people who are professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45603	Thank you. Next replica, counsel Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45604	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, do you remember what happened before the Lex Agrokor Act? How much did those shares of Ledo fall, Jamnica? Was it in anyone's interest to break up that property, to come very cheaply to great value and then to boast afterwards. Maybe it bothers someone that it's stopped. Because someone's got a problem with stopping the rate growth, because someone's got a problem with Central Dalmatia and Dalmatian islands getting supplies this year and having a full tourist season. It obviously bothers someone. And also, here we were listening to in 2012, 2013 that HBOR has to lend itself, that it does not go through business banks like before when business banks transferred the risk, and now suddenly the problem that HABOR has credited something. And what is particularly disturbing, I see from these discussions that many people have not read the law, neither the statute nor the Rules of Procedure on the work of HABOR. It's where you know exactly how the process goes. And if we stick to it, then we'd argue more easily and we could determine whether someone was guilty or not. But unfortunately, today both Jamnica and Ledo and all production companies are neatly placing their products and are full of shelves throughout the Adriatic. Was it in anyone's interest to have another 30.40% tear down those shares and collect for what, the biggest fortune in the Croatian food industry. Was that in anyone's interest? Does anyone think that Jamnica and Jana have concessions for water expansion? And if someone buys that company, they buy it with her rights. Because you didn't sell the concession to Todorovic or anyone else, you gave it to the company. Has anyone thought about it? Has anyone thought about what some companies are, I'm not going to mention them here, that they'd be on their knees today, that they were bankrupt, that there was no law on lex Agrokor. And talk to suppliers with all the pluses and minuses of this law, they're here. But obviously, someone's terribly bothered, which prevented... the property of Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Replicate response, MP Bacič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said everything exactly, and you know that it seems to me to be 10 days on the stock exchange and great companies, brands, Croatian brands in the system of concerts and that the law has stopped, that the Zagreb Stock Exchange has stopped, that the law has prevented the bankruptcy of these brands and that they are operating today, which is very important, almost, I think better than they did before, before the concert got into a difficult crisis and there you are absolutely right. [[Mr. Maras, please.]] But what I would especially like to say and thank you outside for that, I would say, in the event of bankruptcy, is the question of where and in order to end these concessions, i.e., companies that are concessionaries, springs, that have goods in the Republic of Croatia. Agricultural land etc., etc., thank you for that. This is exactly how we prevented it from staying and the whole project, the whole restructuring process being run by the government. The government, i.e. to lead an extraordinary commissioner, to report it neatly to the Government and we will and we will advocate in HDZ that the parent working bodies, therefore both the Committee and the Economy and the Committee on Finance are finally there in September, invite the Commissioner here and that he is familiar with all the activities and so far in the implementation of the law, but what is much more important to me, to introduce us to the way in which the concert itself is restructured, and then we will know where and how he plans to do both with Jamnic and Bela and Ledo in the future, as well as in what way. And it is good that this law allowed the state or through the government, and I am convinced through the parliamentary representatives, in a certain way there are control possibilities, as well as how the extraordinary... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45607	Thank you, Agent Bacic. The next replica is the representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45608	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have said well in one replica, although you have tried to remove the debate on lex Agrokor all the time and what positive effects he has in saving the Croatian economy from the collapse, but it is not a topic. The theme is what you said in one line. What happened to Agrokor in this situation, that the government must react with a law like this that is not common and try to save things. So, what led to that, and that's what we're all interested in here, and we need to get the debate back in that direction. So, let's look at all the institutions, regulators, see what the facts are, and see if they did what they were supposed to do. Should we be here as Parliamentarians to change things, so we don't have to repeat the case of Agrokor. That's the question. These are not just questions for the DORH, nor are we here to determine criminal responsibility. We don't even know what the case is. So what we're going to do here through an investigative committee, we can't know if it's a match and to what extent it's going to match, but it's certainly going to be much wider than what the DORH is going to do now and what's actually going to be done through these investigative actions. So those two are not compatible at all, so back to the topic, you supported the investigation committee, a few months ago, now here, so you had a club a little while ago. You said you'd make a decision at the club, so you didn't know what the decision was, and now you're so firm in here defending that attitude, that the investigative commission isn't necessary. So don't defend the decision that's been made there on the other side, and now you're defending it, and you're standing firm that we're going to interfere with the investigation. That's not true. We're going to talk about a much broader context here, how this situation has come about that the government has to react. Don't talk to any more parliamentary agents about lex Agrokor. It is not a topic, the topic is that Agrokor is in such a position to endanger the Croatian economy in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45609	Thank you, Agent Grumoja. Reply to the replica, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And a colleague of Grumoja, one of the issues to be addressed, to which an investigative commission should be answered, is just the adoption of the Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration. And I was focusing on it because I think that this research committee, proposed by the SDP, was created solely because of the fact that we brought together HDZ and Most to Lex Agorkor. It's connected, I think 5 or 6 days after the bill was passed here in the Parliament, the SDP went with this proposal. Therefore, under the impression of the law, the SDP wrote this proposal for a decision. Under the impression of that law. At that moment, I was convinced that the SDP was certain that this law would not win any success. The amendment was the SDP that only something should be intervened in the law on bankruptcy, that what makes it possible today for counterpart Beernardic himself to enter his mouth. I think that the SDP was completely wrong, problemed the rollup credit, and through the amendment, he offered it to us both in the bankruptcy law, that's all that needs to be changed. We don't need Lex Agrokor law, but only that, here's a fellow vice president at home who had that amendment and wrote it and defended it in the Open. Therefore, here is when we talk about principle I would refer to the fact that today the president of the SDP is having a problem with the rollup credit because of his... and the opportunities he provides... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45611	Thank you very much, Agent Bačić. Replica MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45612	Thank you very much. You have now returned to your colleague Bačić a little bit on the subject we should talk about, and SDP's motives should not be entered. You can get into HNS' motives why he didn't support then lex Agrokor and Vrdoljak was talking here he was yelling at the prime ministers, you already agreed you coalition with him, but a known coalition we can talk about. But here we're talking about a very clear thing, to see what led to 50 billion debt in Agrokor. Whoever shot that concert to give a monopoly in the Republic of Croatia, which are tycoons and tycoons, can't defend it. We need to know here, and you were the minister, you were the secretary of HDZ, so you can't defend yourself, say, by the example of the Savadria wave and arbitration, you can't. Under which pressures you were then under, under which pressure did Todorovic impose Marić without Maric knowing anything. Oh, don't talk. So he was excused in a crucial battle when it fell to save the Croatian economic system. Will you help the example here are the workers of the Dalmatians, the workers to whom the state owes 10 million kunas, nothing left without a job, will the state forgive their taxes, 10 million kunas and government obligations? He won't. But they're going, and they're going to third countries. Yeah, the triba saves jobs, and I won't even talk about concessions. Therefore, we return to the topic, which in this case is that the investigating commission, regardless of the motives of the SDP, will you or anyone else, determine what is being done by the investigating commission, is leading to this crime, guessing and collapse of the Croatian economy. You may have been in power, but I don't see in this responsibility if you're not afraid, here we need to be unanimous, unanimous that the commission of nine people as about the immunological thing that we made the commission to do... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45613	Thank you, Agent Bull, thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bull, we're not afraid of an investigative commission. I have no reason to fear an investigative committee. The investigation committee can determine what you are saying, and I think it would also establish that criminal responsibility would also be determined through the work of the investigating committee. The real responsibility for what was happening in Agrokor for any illegalities that were going to be determined by the DORH. We can and have no problem defining laws that will create an environment that no longer happens in the Croatian legislative system. We don't have a problem with that, but we're open here, we're only talking about one thing, and that's that an investigative commission on us doing an investigation parallel to the DORH would interfere with the work of whoever's in charge of determining the right responsibility if there were criminal acts and illegalities in the process of making concerts and what's no less important to his sunbath through the crisis that happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45615	Thank you very much, Mr. Bačić. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Agent Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45616	Thank you very much. I wanted to speak on behalf of the promoter to establish two things, to return to what is important, and it is important that we want to establish an investigative commission and it is important that the Most Representatives' Club supported it, that the HDZ Representatives' Club is against it. So the HDZ Representatives' Club is against the investigative commission for reasons that are unacceptable to us, and which are probably unacceptable to the Croatian public as well. Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, especially the people of the HDZ who spoke against this investigative commission, so the law has defined exactly what an investigative commission can be set up and it is founded on issues of public interest, in particular, is considered to be the achievement of the fundamental values of the Constitution, and now it lists further and we also have the legality of the work of state bodies, public services and legal persons, public rights and issues concerning public morality. So this request is entirely based on the law. Now, Mr. Bacic of the HDZ Club mentions the problem that this will coincide with the work of the DORH, but the Law on Research Commissions defines this situation, too, Mr. Bacic. He says in Article 4 that it cannot be established on those issues by an investigative committee in which a judicial procedure has been initiated for so long as the proceedings are pending. Fate proceedings. If there is no court case here, you will agree, of course, and as far as the court proceedings are being initiated on a matter for whose investigation committee is established, it will immediately cease to work. So he didn't have any need, Mr. Bacic, to wait for what the DORH would say and then decide to go with the investigation committee or not. The law made it very clear if the DORH's investigation leads to a judicial procedure in this situation for the only subject of the investigation committee to cease working. So please don't lie to Croatian citizens, don't lie to them. There's nothing to do with DORH, with investigations, with the conflict of jurisdiction. The law has made it very clear. This is about HDZ wanting to hide something. What does he want to hide? I don't know. What happened at the HBOR Supervisory Board meeting, I don't know. But the public and we here have the right to know, no DORH should give us answers to these questions. Those questions can be answered by us. It has nothing to do with any discrepancy with the investigations that have been launched. Tell us which investigations have been initiated? I don't know. You're guessing. You don't know either. If anything leads to court proceedings, the investigation committee will cease its activities for that part. Well, the law has made that very clear. And don't keep fooling us here, us and the Croatian citizens watching this. This isn't in your best interest. We tomorrow or Friday if we establish an investigative committee and appoint people, it will be possible for the investigation committee in a week, two days to get these transcripts from HBOR and see what's going on around the loan. That doesn't suit you, you don't want it, because if you wanted it today, Minister Maric would have made such a decision or would have called upon the Supervisory Board to sit down and determine to allow public access to the tone record from the session of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board can do but it does not suit you because of what, believe me, Mr. Dobrović or Mr. Marić, someone is lying, we will see who is lying but it does not suit you that this truth comes to Croatian citizens. And you've been hiding behind the DORH here the whole time, although the law has made that part very clear. If the court does not have an investigative committee, there is no reason to wait for the DORH. On the other hand, you didn't offer anything, say which point doesn't suit you, submit an amendment to what you think is controversial, and we'll consider it, but it doesn't suit you as an investigative committee. To stretch it out into the investigation, who knows how long it'll last, we'll end up getting to the investigation committee never. And that's why this is a recycled not case, but this is a recycled '90s and '05s, '06s, '07s. And one more thing, I have a little time, which I'm interested in, why doesn't the HNS have any attitude on this? Why does Branko Bacic say what HNS' position is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45617	Thank you very much. We have seven replicas. So the first replica is Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, this is about a company, i.e. a concert that has led the entire economic system to collapse and I do not see any reason, regardless of the motives to which the SDP has proposed this commission as well as the case of the immune system, very important to come out of the truth because the economic system has come to a collapse. Who's responsible? That's what we'll determine, i.e. who is responsible, what has been done, what has happened, how many credits have gone to Agrokor, how many subsidies and incentives have gone to Agrokor and from Croatia, from EU funds, the agriculture ministers have given it and let it be known. Why wouldn't we know that? Why wouldn't the people who work in agriculture know that? He says, they remember that we have some other tools. What will be the tools? So we know that there was a vote for Minister Marić 75:75, that it was caught in the cells of people, MPs, in the halls, so you can't believe what was going on. Well, that was done, let's say, a colleague of Pupovac's signatures I remember, a colleague of Hasanbegovic raised his hand, a colleague of Esich, a colleague of yours, a former colleague of Saucha, so is that relevant? ... on political decisions, on the Commission's biggest robbery in Croatia's history. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The good Croatian was destroyed to the maximum, every hope was brought to the bottom. You know how many people are in Germany this year? 56 thousand, as much as the prime minister boasts that he's less employed and that's because of this. Why not the commission? Is someone from the MOS responsible, from the HDZ SDP? So we see who brought it, former Finance Minister Schuker, our minister some, Minister of your Lalovec, someone is responsible. ... So why not the commission? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's be unanimous.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45619	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45620	Thank you very much. So all I can accept is political games and plantings and competitions, it's all part of the arena, but don't lie to us, don't lie to us. There's nothing to do with DORH here, you've tried to think of something now, I mean, it's funny. So we can justify that we're against it, until yesterday we were in, or until the day before yesterday, a week ago, we're against it. And Mr. Bully, who in this country can accept the the thesis solved by the Law on Investigation Commissions? As we let the institutions go, here's what I saw on the HNS website right now that they're against it because it casts doubt on our institutions. And what if the DORH investigates a deficit in a cash register in Konzum on Supetar, we'll wait for the same thing? We want the same thing, what does that have to do with each other? Well, that's where we listed certain things, so there could be any crime in the DORH Conzum that's being questioned. How do we know who did what at the consummation? What difference does it make? So don't make us stupid. Mr. Bacic, you're a serious man. Don't do it, don't do it. People are too smart and it's too clear what's going on here, that there's some wrinkles and some people don't want us to hear what happened there. Aren't you curious, isn't Mr. Maric in the interest of finding out what happened there? What happened on the Supervisory Board? Who was it for? Who had any arguments? Who missed to see that 2 and a half billion euros of Ledo already loaded with certain guarantees? Who threw away 400 million kunas of ours? So if it's not a public interest in hearing, what is it? I really have no idea what the commission should be set up for. There's no stronger reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45621	Thank you very much for representing Maras. Next replica representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45622	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Maras, here we are talking about the institution's trust, and I also agree that it's funny, especially some institutions, I told the prime minister, who is asking for confidence here, that if someone reconstructs, reforms, reorganizes, reorganizes, at least 6 key institutions, one of the most important DORHs, that they will not do anything, everything seems to be going that way. The DORH is simply untouchable, we have the state's chief attorneys who, well, everything seems to rule there for decades, to cover up what's been going on. So here I am right in this House, some time ago when there was also debate about Agrokor, mentioned the case of a private person, or his firm, who is already 8, now going to be the 9th year, ask his lawyer, so since I'm not mistaken, he's reported to the DORH crime involving Mr. Todorovic, Agrokor, Tisak, which has already been. I can bring the papers if I have to. Eight years of co-worker and co-worker, state's attorney's case, eight years. And it's a drop in the sea. Todorics are simply not to be touched. And may he at least reject it if he doesn't have the courage as the state's attorney says, "we don't have the resources," if he doesn't already have it, throw it away, and he'll be prosecuted by a private suit. No, eight years of state's attorney's failure to act. Mr. Shucker, he's doing great, bravo DORH, who doesn't trust the DORH, I don't trust the DORH first. Furthermore, I also wanted to quote a law where it reads loudly and clearly that if there is a trial on something, it cannot be done by an investigative committee, so it should be done as soon as possible, before some process is initiated in the investigation committee. There's so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45623	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45624	Thank you very much. Mr. Sincic, in this case, I don't give a shit about the DORH, I don't give a shit about the DORH. I don't care what they do in Agrokor, I wonder what we can find out about what people care about and what their interest is. Whether it was acted legally, in the public interest and given a protected interest in the public and interest of the Republic of Croatia. I don't give a shit about the DORH. Let them do what they think should be done, from the lack in the register to the stock store, whatever they investigate, let them investigate. It has nothing to do with the investigation committee. Try to understand that it's just an apology, a lie that's been released here like a squid ink, to justify why you don't want to discuss it. Why don't you want an investigative commission? And now we're talking about some DORH, so I don't care what they do. It has nothing to do with trust in institutions. This House is a roof institution in the Republic of Croatia, this Parliament has the right to do and explore things that are of public interest, whatever it wants. When the DORH comes to trial, if that's in the commission's investigation section, that's an exception. You took my minute off at once, huh? ...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45625	No, no, no, sorry, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45626	All right, so I'm getting fucked up in this case for the DORH. Try to understand, and I'll say it one more time, someone came up with that in five minutes down there after they agreed on an apology at the HDZ club. It's the only and only truth that's here. They don't want to, but not because of the DORH, but because of something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45627	Thank you very much for representing Maras. The next replica of the representative, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45628	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, when you went out, you said "let's get back to the beginning, which is the subject of this proposal". I remind you that the president of your party spoke for 7 minutes instead of 30 and explained this proposal, and I listened carefully and wrote down. He said it was crucial why this commission was called in, to determine something which is evident, which is a violation of the Penal Code. Then he spent the rest of the minutes on this article 291st abuse of position and authority, 292, 295 to 303, meaning hiding the perpetrator. He read everyone from the beginning to the end. If only you had spoken, you might have accepted this request and made sure that this commission was not going to deal with criminal proceedings, but among the promoters there is no unity, it is evident to me and there is a different understanding of this problem. Some talk about Minister Maric, others about criminal acts, and few people talk about the content of this proposal. So I doubt if everyone read it behind it. A little talk about human regulators. These intentions are interpreted differently among the promoters. And you'll find it hard to convince me that they're honest. When the fire burns, I think it's very important to find out who did it, but the key is to put out the fire. So I'm in favour of us shutting down the fire, making suppliers pay off, keeping jobs, and unfortunately, on this stage, the cover of finding the culprit is often threatened by human rights, and we're turning this assembly into a courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45629	Thank you, Agent Roscic. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45630	Mrs. Roscic, the investigating committee cannot even handle criminal proceedings. There are laws in the Republic of Croatia that define this precisely, but the investigative commission can deal with whether anything has been done in a legitimate or illegal way. So, there may be certain data, so the investigation committee will not initiate court proceedings, file charges, etc. Well, that's clear to everyone, so that's clear to Mr. Bačić, that's clear to him. Well, I'm convinced, deep down, he doesn't believe what he's saying. But he just has to play that part. He got a job defending himself to play a band-aid on someone and he's doing it now. But I guess it's clear to all of us in the Republic of Croatia, as well as to all those who are now looking at us that this is not about any conflict of institutions, because the investigative commission can't even conduct criminal proceedings. As with any other citizen in the Republic of Croatia, there may be certain data which may refer to a criminal offence and then, in that situation, the DORH comes and examines the matter to the end, raises or does not press charges. So what we want now is to do it in the simplest way in the example of HBOR to shed light. We want to send a record, a tone record, to the HBOR, to invite the members of the board who suggested it and ask them what was going on there. What's so controversial about that? Who are we interrupting in his investigation now? I don't think the HDZ is responding solely to this reason that I said earlier, that it doesn't really know what happened there in a specific case of credit, and this rest I really can't imagine why it bothers them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45631	Thank you very much for representing Maras. The next replica is the representative of Bačić, followed by the representative of Grmoja. Here you go, Agent Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you use heavy artillery, you lie, you cheat, etc. etc. However, you still have thin arguments when you are trying to explain why you are interested in the establishment, which is your purpose in establishing an investigative commission. Finally, here you are listening to the fact that you are only interested in the fact that and how HBOR has placed 48m-euro loans to three companies in the system of concerts. I think it's such a small question to define that it doesn't require an investigative commission. Even if Maric wasn't right, and I believe him, all that he wasn't right, all that he was trying to persuade the members of the Supervisory Board, all that he was trying to convince those members of the Supervisory Board who were given such an excuse if it was a criminal offence, then they would be given the opportunity to talk wherever they were doing, whatever they were doing to commit a crime. Their responsibility is always theirs, not the president of a collective body, and do not convince all of us that those who have raised their hands and who are being washed today, who would rather forget that they were there that day and made the decision would now try to transfer that blame to Minister Maric, and I claim that what he said and that this will be proven by the DORH's investigation process that he, he did not influence and exempt anyone and did nothing to get that loan down to those companies and that the management and credit committee and professional services made such a decision. Therefore, if that is the purpose of this investigation committee, then we have missed its establishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45633	Thank you, Agent Bačić. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45634	Thank you very much. And that's all it is, Mr. Bacic, is enough, but there are 10 other things about it. And don't, I thought at least you wouldn't appeal to what kind of people are being persuaded, etc. Because you had the opportunity in your career to see your world collapse, to have a party's prime minister who was in the party leading the party, led to great success in the 2007 elections later in the 2009 local elections. And when you came to the party's handover, you were the party's secretary-in-chief, then you almost fell off the chair when you saw the cash in the safe you didn't know where it came from. And then your world collapses, because you just can't believe that something like that works that way. Right? And that was the prime minister. Hey, that was HDZ president. It was, here's the man writing books now. So don't be disappointed if you were so caught up in it then, and in some way I believe and disappointed because you believed in this man, you certainly were disappointed because you can't be disappointed when something like that happens to you, and so you wouldn't believe that Dobrović fell for certain suggestions from the gentleman. [[But no one reads.]] It's much less than what happened to Sanader, much, much less. So at least you who know it from life's experience that it can crash very quickly as a bubble of soap gold around a man should be aware that anything can happen in these situations. And what I want is for all of us sitting across from us and the Croatian public to find out what's true. And what's the problem? What's the problem? What DORH? What kind of conflict? No, please. It's hiding from you and on our side insisting on what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45635	Thank you, Agent Maras. The next replica is the representative of the Grmoi. After him, MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45636	Comrade Maras, you're right when you say that this isn't just a DORH issue and that each of us here has some other motives and reasons for supporting the investigative commission. Your motive may be the strongest of this HBOR loan. Kola Bulj wants to know who made it possible for Todorovic to create such an empire. My motives may be different motives, but each of us has some reason to support this investigative commission. And what our colleague Roscic is saying is not, and our differences, different motives are not the reason to go against the commission, but are the reasons that further strengthen our belief that we should go in the direction of the commission to investigate who is all responsible for why Agrokor became such a monster who threatened to destroy the entire Croatian economy that the government must react. And HDZ colleagues aren't honest when they talk. I remember when Bozo Petrov filed a criminal report, everyone got up. Where did he get the right as President of the Parliament to file criminal charges, and on the basis of these criminal charges, investigations are now being conducted to which they are being called. Well, maybe we'll just run this investigation committee and open up some questions, which will then encourage the DORH to act. So we all know how DORH works in Croatia. So when an article appears in the media, it's only then that it reacts. Well, maybe we here when we start this investigation committee, we'll encourage the DORH to move, because we don't know what's going on right now, you said well, we don't know what's going on, we don't know what the DORH is doing. But the subject of this investigation committee will not only be criminal responsibility, but let's see where the institutions have failed, where the regulators have failed, which we can correct so this doesn't happen again. And this story doesn't stand for HDZ at all. This is what they've come up with on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45637	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45638	I'd like all MPs to answer one question for themselves. Whether this is a public interest in people knowing or not. That's all. It means whether it's public interest for people to know what's been going on around Agrodor and about the loan and about the law-making and around regulators and about the bonds without guarantees. Whether it's a public interest or not. If that's not a public interest, for me it's a first-rate public interest, then I don't know what public interest is. Which is why we're, say, investigating committees around the immune institution. Look out for that... At the time we established almost unanimously in this House, so HDZ was there for, it didn't bother them in any way that the DORH, not DORH, would anyone there be questioning anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't a problem. When we set up a commission on INA, similar formulations. You know sometimes you don't have to torture yourself, so you write twice like that. You take a little bit of what you've already defined in the last investigation committee. They didn't mind the formulations there, whether any irregularities damaged the state budget. Same thing. It was also said that Sanader is being investigated, that there are already certain actions, etc. Then it didn't bother them and they raised their hands, I don't know who of the colleagues, I know that Mr. Djakić had been there for a long time, but for some others I don't know, but HDZ didn't mind. Why is he bothering him now? Why doesn't he want it now? That's what I'd like to know. But trust me, we'll find out eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45639	Thank you, Agent Maras. The next replica is representative Josip Boric, followed by Stevo Culej. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45640	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, this House has seen a lot of investigative committees. You were here too, so we know how they were founded. So the SDP gave one initiative, and now it's up to you to convince me that it was founded and that it's possible that what you wrote down here. You haven't convinced me so far. And I return you to the investigation committee, when you suggested the same thing in the public interest, when you had the government and most of the Parliament, which was to determine who killed Mr. Djurekovic. Remember how that story went? The SDP is the basic commission. The commission never resuscitated, no one wanted to give members to that committee, and nothing happened. Where was the public interest back then? Now you're telling me this is a public interest and we're against it. So what did you convince me here today, that I should be here for this? By talking about roll-up loans? So you haven't even read the Law on Systemically Important Companies. Article 39 and 40 does not speak about the way and the models, but talks about the conditions under which the company can be in charge. It means it's allowed. And now you're convincing me that these 13 points here, and I've read one before, and I'm going to read it again. The first, as well as the circumstances of the Agrokor concert, grew to this day and especially how the privatisation process of companies that became part of the concerts, which occurred before Croatia was left alone. How many witnesses, how many papers and who's gonna do it, you. And it's all important to care in points 5 to 10, and it concerns all these events after the law is passed and it's your focus and you should have put it in focus. Not the whole story and 20 years of concert. And now they would convince me that I should accept it as something normal. Well, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45641	Thank you, Agent Borts. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45642	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, I have a feeling that I can't convince you, whatever you do here, whatever you say, I can't convince you. Because if you had the intensity of any of this finding out, then you'd write a proposal, drop this, leave this. But you're not interested in anything, no, you're not interested in anything. You are only interested in the fact that Minister Maric does not have to answer questions, that nothing is known, that the situation remains related to Agrokor as it is. So this law that's been passed, to continue to be implemented, that's what you're interested in. And you hid behind the DORH, which has nothing to do with it, I said once again, the law has defined that only after the DORH endures and receives a court epilogue, a certain action, then the commission must no longer work, only on that matter. So you found an excuse that doesn't stand, that people are convinced is not who it is. And on the other hand, you're not interested in anything. Of these 13 things you're not interested in. So come on, man, tell me what you want to know. Here, you have 13 things, round up 5 things, and we'll leave that behind. That's all you want to know. [[I beg you not to come in, please don't.]] You're only interested in the first thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45643	Representative Boric, please don't, let the representative finish, there are times later, when there is individual replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45644	So if there was a really sincere will that you wanted an investigative committee in HDZ and you wanted to know anything about Agrokor, you'd do something, not make a conclusion that Mr. Bacic announced, waiting for the DORH to do its job, and then we'll see what we're going to do and how we're going to do it. It's not smart, it's avoiding the public's answer and people see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45645	Thank you very much, Agent Maras. The next replica representative of Stevo Culej, followed by representative Lesandric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45646	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Maras, if we were here right now, if we had all voted here, we would have trusted the DORH, we would have given everything and we would not, and we will not, in any case, always agree on how we're going to vote. But the only goal of this debate is not to shed light on the truth to the Croatian people and the well-being of the Croatian people is your only interest in bringing down this government and doing what is in your cause. But here I am giving myself one minute I wrote, two possible, the commission of Mrak-Taritash in Gunja, let's establish it, the Jakovina incentives, the DORH directed... to America, violence in the family not to say who, you betrayed it..., Westgate price squares, research of everything, the weapons that disappeared from the police in Varazdin has not yet been investigated, Pajčić-Sabados case, Pajčić is dead Sabados is a Croatian pension in Novi Sado, fictitious accounts in Gavella brother of Mr Stazić there is another one at Cvitan, HBOR gave money to Brother Zoran Milanovic to make some laundry there, lex Perkovic not to speak, 10 thousand completed by the office of Orsat Milenić and he was here of course not to tell the false fighting sector 71 days after the war ended. That my colleague Fred could say the same, the amendments to the executive law pushed into the Assembly of the same has only been of benefit. And that's what we're talking about, and we all know everything, so let's not lie to that same people, but let that people come here and take us out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45647	Thank you very much for representing Cule. Commissioner Maras's reply, please respond to the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45648	Thank you very much. Let's make a deal between you and me. I sign the investigation committee for America, and you sign this, okay? So I have no problem at all, I have absolutely no problem that if someone puts on paper a meaningful request that will question my work for anything, I will personally support it because it's not my problem. If someone's gonna deal with this wide door, and they're gonna have my support, there's no problem. But we can't, someone said today, HDZ has this model, so we're not going to do this, and look at the one over there, not on the other side, and then we're talking about some things, and eventually people don't get any answers. Just tell me, Mr. Culey, if this is what people are interested in and if they deserve an answer. If the answer is yes, then vote for it. What's the problem? What's wrong with someone? Whatever you write from what you say, I'll back you up. Let people get an answer. I'll back you right up. Here's your best shot. I'll back you up. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45649	Okay, I'm asking you not to talk like that, so Representative Maras is responding to a replica, and then you can go outside for a little while and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45650	... So I don't know where you were in the '90s in the former state before the '90s. I was in high school. What I have to fear, I wasn't even young yet, so I was a pioneer like Hasanbegovic you saw the other day in the paper, me and he were probably here somewhere in the pioneers received. So on that side, I have nothing to be afraid of, put it in the sun, in the light of day, and I don't have any problem with that. So whatever you suggest I'll support but... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45651	Thank you, Agent Maras, for your reply to the replica. And the last replica of the representative Lesandric-Ninčević Ivana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45652	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the beginning of the debate, we listened to colleagues from HDZ for the reasons why they are actually defending their decision not to support the Agrokor investigative committee, and then a colleague from the SDP Maras explained in detail that it is practically impossible for them to state that they will interfere with the DORH investigation, that it is not true, and then a colleague from the HDZ changed the course of justifying its decision, so it came to the different motives of the promoters and the laws that are not correct, so they cannot be as a reason for supporting this investigation committee. And in fact, it seems to me that listening to all this and watching this debate that the only thing that stands in the background of all this is nothing but fear, nothing but fear of investigation. And right now here in this high house, fear is the last thing we need to be on our way to the truth, so no political party, no ideology, no motive can stand in the way of truth. So all we're looking for is the truth, and I'm convinced that I'm just as sure as I am if they're no longer looking for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45653	Thank you very much. Representative Maras, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45654	Thank you very much. I think it's clear to everyone, I'm sorry people don't see it. But you know how we're going to ensure that people see it, so this debate probably doesn't follow too many people because it remains possible on Max TV and these other channels that are just as dedicated to Parliament, but it's a very small number of people in the Republic of Croatia, but SDP will ensure that people see and hear it in a way that there won't be a choice of constitutional judges until the commission is established, either. So this agreement, the SDP president said today, this agreement that was reached on constitutional judges will not be voted until the investigation committee is established, no matter how long it lasts. Well, gentlemen, you have the opportunity to see that we are determined in this and that we will protect our right to assess what is more important at this time for the Croatian public, to choose three judges of the Constitutional Court or for the Croatian public to get answers to the questions we expect. And then when we explain on Friday that we will not vote for constitutional judges again, we will explain why, etc., etc. And then Croatian citizens will see through it who is essentially a stop and who does not want to know the truth about Agrokor and every time it will be a topic. The constitutional judges will be very, I would say a nice marker in this problem because everyone will wonder why there are no constitutional judges, because HDZ does not want a debate on Agrokor. So we'll make sure our people get answers and our people hear things that don't solve certain things. Whoever thinks this afternoon's debate is going to end, that that's it, is seriously wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45655	Thank you, Agent Maras. Now we continue the debates on behalf of the MPs' club. The next club, which is next, is the Live Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA and Parliament representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here's a colleague of Sincic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45656	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, today as we know, we have an investigative committee on the agenda in the case of Agrokor, I must say that this House has not seen many investigative committees that have worked since the conduct of Electronic Archive 5 I have managed to find. I must also repeat that the Living Wall will support this commission, continue with our ideology of truth politics, and that we must drive out the cleanliness and question of Agrokor and the questions of everything that has been done about Agrokor. It's been 20 to 30 years since we've been able to track the development of Agrokor as it is. I'll talk about the scope of the job later. I think the time has come to call and in our business and in law it is said that the interviews are being conducted in the building of the Croatian Parliament as a rule in Mark's Square, so we should call on Mark's square, in front of the people sent here by the citizens, to invite the Todoric family here, to invite the directors, former ministers, presidents of HBOR, this one, which, which, by some other banks, will be very many people because it's not just one topic of trucks or some contract like the INA MOL contract, or two of '03, and '09. but it will be the continuity of 30 years with a whole series of affairs. Let's call them out here and question them, so let's ask them an hour, two, three, until all those who have questions are put together, so we can call them again if we have to, because the law also stipulates that they can be called back, predicts that they can face witness statements with another witness who claims otherwise. Here I would personally like to see them face up, and it also says that the work is public, except when it can be closed, that Minister Maric and Minister Dobrovic face up, so let's see who's "who's going to" put it that way. Someone's gonna have to explain all the indications, the evidence, the claims, but whatever you want, about tax evasion, counterfeiting the report. Let it be explained what happened to so many loans and incentives received by Agrokor’s companies, or Agrokor himself. Let it be explained why all these years inspections have avoided Agrokor and all related to him, why certain state institutions are protecting them, why Kulmer's courts were being held as a hotel, why they were being cheated on the bonds, why the miserable fees were being paid for water extraction, how they came into Belja property, etc., etc. One endless, endless list of irregularities in the last 30 years. I'm glad the initiators, this time it's SDP that they listed in their proposal privatisations, i.e. the acquisition of companies themselves by Agrokor. Conversion and privatisation, colleagues and colleagues, was even mentioned in '91. '95. When that law was at the top, the Law on Turning Social Enterprises would be a very difficult job, it would be a very complex job but we have no other business but to face this period in our history when individuals by 100, 1000, a few thousand percent and more in a very short time increased their assets without being asked by anyone today from where. A very simple question where did you get that? Did you win the lottery? Where did you get all that stuff? And what's worse then is the fact that it's acquired illegally corrupts our institutions and protects what it's acquired. They probably also paid for certain parties' campaigns. I spoke several times, I think I spoke three times, which after the pay phone, which from the place of Mr. Todorovic came to Jamnica, about how the Zagreb County was abolished, how Mr. Niksa came to decide and how he properly handed it over to Agrokor, how the county was then returned to the map, but now as Zagreb County, the name he wears today. A man who refused to hand over Jamnica Todorovic, the first mayor of Zagreb County, Mr Vujanic, otherwise still alive, can testify. He was also on the living wall list in these last elections. Let him tell you how he was terrorized and what had to be done at the time and what he was threatened with. Let's deal with the investigation committee. And not only that, it's an endless list of these companies, of the grain cases, of the bono cases, it's just a story to itself. Only around bonuses could a special investigative commission be made. I would also like to be examined, to examine Mr. Todorovic's role, that is, the whole story revolves around him, owned by the INA, that's what I was talking about in my presidential campaign, now is the opportunity to get documents, documents that other institutions didn't want, could, should, as you wish, all these years. Have him check out what I said then, check it out. About Agrokor around the Todorovic family, in Croatia there was a development of a neophedalism, the laws were passed because of him, the institutions acted or did not act because of him and of him, the state bowed down and subjugated him instead of following the laws of the same state, so in just the last year inside... tax reform is a series of examples where we can read direct or indirect benefits to Todorovic from changing the regulation, paying in bonuses, from reducing the re-promatter tax in agriculture, which should have been done long ago, not now that Todorovic has been encrypted, from forgiveness of debts or write off debts by banks etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, we had a case of the factoring law, which wanted to cover up crime with bonds, so the Accounting Act, which wanted to postpone the report and, of course, the crown law of all that Lex Agrokor, so on. The law on economic governance, it's 16 plus 2 plus 1, so 19 laws in less than a year. I told Mr. Maric when he was here, Mr. Maric you are, I think you're a smart man, you worked there in Agrokor, you're educated and you know everything. I don't believe he doesn't know, this is my political court, I'm sure Mr. Maric knew everything. However, he came to the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian government, on the task of bringing for his former employer, for example. bring all these laws, and a number of other actions, measures, i.e. abandoning the action all to the benefit of the Todoric family. Of course, it culminated in everything with this 350 scandalous Christmas loan and how many million kunas, according to the preparation program line. I also spoke to this speaker about the case or the indications that this money or part of that money had gone to Serbia, to the idea firm, that the idea company was one of the strongest sponsors to the Red Star basketball club, and then the club made contracts with any marketing agencies and, of course, paid them all. We know that the Todoric families are not foreign marketing agencies, look only at what was founded and what money, and the people are wondering where they came from, so let them examine whether the taxpayers' money was drawn through a third country into the private accounts of the Todoric family. Let the property of the Todoric family and all related abroad be examined. There are still indications, let's say I was encouraged by Latina's show years ago as Croatian tycoons were created, there's even talking about it, there's a whole series of people behind it who might testify, that there are significant funds stored abroad, private funds, of course it has nothing to do with Agrokora, so let's also go this way with this investigation. Mr. Maric's responsibility exists in a Christmas loan. Yes, it is not the first loan given by the HBOR to Agrokor or some company in Agrokor, but Mr Maric knew whether or not it would be able to return and knew that it was giving money that would probably be a bad loan, it would be written off that could never be returned. The very example of Agrokora is an example of the Republic of Croatia in small, financial terms, Agrokor is about 3.4 times as we look at expenditures and revenues in relation to the revenues and expenditures of the state budget, 3.4 times lower than the Croatian budget, so if we look at consolidated or ordinary, therefore it is one Croatia in small, lived on credit, at terribly high interest rates, unsustainable interest rates, no one can survive at 10% interest for a long time. And yes, let me also look back at what I've been saying to Mr. Bačić, we can take a huge loan, as it's now taken, and we're great, it's great for the workers, it's great for the suppliers, it's great for the directors until the first war comes, and then it gets less awesome, there are other questions opening up, and the question of whether we're going to wait for that last war or who's going to meet her and what condition. So we didn't see a model here, a sustainable model, but we're just making new debts, old debts to new debts, and so does the state. And they'll show up eventually for the Republic of Croatia some kind of creditor we owe to, who'll twist our tap. We don't give yours, and what do we do now? We've got to go back. We can't do a good one. We're gonna have an Agrocora case. As far as the technical matter is concerned, since I am myself running a commission for the Immunological Institute, the legal deadline for doing business is 6 months, I call on members who will be in the commission to start intensive work immediately because I repeat it is a big period of time. About dozens, if not a hundred points in that period, which should be examined, you may need to determine more important than less important because of the scope. Within each of the cases on the timeline, there will certainly be at least a dozen of the most priority witnesses to be examined. As for the documentation, yes, it's true, it's going to be a lot of paper, we have so far at the Immunology Institute one paper cabinet, this is going to be much, much bigger. As far as the law itself is concerned, he's out of date, he's still mentioned the County House he doesn't have for a long time, I can make a personal proposal, I think that we should introduce outside members, now to what extent we can discuss to help the work of the commission, here it won't be possible because the law isn't in the process of change but for some future commissions. It's good that the commission is over, I'm saying this would be about five or six in the last fifteen years since the electronic records were kept. It's good to go that way. But I don't want to see it, and that's what I said in the vote and in the debate on the Immunological Institute Committee that this comes down to day-to-day politics, that this comes down to bickering and that this commission is a huge soap opera on which every day or week we're going to have a new episode that we're going to be able to discuss here every day, we're not going to be bored. I don't think the commission that will be led solely by political motives will get far. As for our support I repeat, she is not questionable. We're about to reveal everything that can be revealed about Agrokor. So neither our power here is judicial, nor is it in criminal terms. It is primarily fact-finding, and then these facts must be given further to other bodies, institutions that act accordingly. First of all, it's about the DORH. Let's say the INA-MOL Committee's record states that the documentation was forwarded to the DORH. The DORH has been the worst institution of the Republic of Croatia in its activist work since 2011. DORH is something we got hundreds of kilos of paper and applications for ineffectiveness, non-treatment. I could really do it if I went to dig up all that stuff, and it all has one common denominator of non-action. Here's an example of this eight-year state's attorney's failure. Not that we're going to pursue on official duty, so that something goes or doesn't, so there's not going to be a private person going after a private suit. Nothing. ... eight years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The justice that's been waiting eight years is not justice, it's injustice and no one can convince me otherwise. And if something were to go on for as long as it would take for this to end, then the District Court, then the County, then the Supreme. So while something is taken away from that person. Am I going to welcome who I am as one of the younger representatives here? I don't think we have to raise hopes of the Croatian judiciary without reforming it before, but the facts need to be determined. And just for the end of one sentence One sentence. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]] It is time to end the fairy tale of the Todoric family, drag them here into one of the halls and start asking them very unpleasant questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45657	Good on fairy tale. We have a replica of Mr. Boric on your exhibit. Here you go, Agent Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45658	Thank you very much. I've been listening very carefully to my colleague, Sincic. And you at one point doubted what I was talking about all the time. So can we set up this investigative committee even by the basis of this decision that's been written, which means we can get to the end of the term of office some result? Only the first point I keep reading requires so much time that has been lost over the past 25 years by all governments, all the services and almost all the living politicians, all the assembly, all the things that have been happening in the business part of that concert. And I don't know who would determine the truth in the first item of the agenda. How many witnesses, people and papers? You're talking about one closet. Here are the paper clippers who need to come here and 9 people who need to go through with it, so they can say something. Your commission, you've proposed it all were for him. There was simply no investigation. You did your best. People stood by it unanimously. But that I agree that Maras assures me that he is capable of 143 companies that are now in the Agrokor concert with shares that they have from figures to figures different, that he assures me that he and I don't even know which eight other people in that commission will determine the truth about the respect of the law regarding payment of claims, and the debts of Agrokor concerts and companies owned by his suppliers. We've had an extraordinary administration for three months, with dozens of people trying to figure out what the demands of that concert are on the outside. And they haven't even found out when. But this is going to solve our investigation committee without a problem, only that third point, that I'm not talking about the first one. Either this narrows down and puts it in some normal frame so it knows what it wants or we talk like this as much as you want to make an impression. That's not the point of the investigation committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45659	Thank you, Representative Boric. The answer to the line, Representative Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45660	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, you continued your debate in the direction in which you had all day, and deals primarily with paper and the scope of the work that needs to be done. Well, according to my experience so far, and according to the records and conversations with so-called members of former committees who have also worked, taking into account the case itself, and what is written in the proposal, I can say that it is certainly necessary to amend the law. Six months is restrictive, some things are simple, one case, some things are really huge like this. Six months, nine people without outsiders. If they don't limit the job to maybe 5 to 10 major points, the main cases of something, then I'm afraid things are gonna get divorced and I don't want that to happen. However, if they take some key points in the history of Agrokor and focus on it and work intensively regardless of winter, summer breaks, everything else I think I can fill out what's written. As for what Mr. Culey wrote and I'd love to see, I'd like to see investigations into these things and I can sign it. But I'd like to see even more that all the things that you've listed 143 companies and all that he's listed and all the other things that have long ago been solved by the State's Attorney's office and other institutions in time and justice, not that we have to deal with this and that we're running endless ribbons. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45661	Thank you. That was the answer to the replica. The next representative on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives and the Croatian Party of Retired is Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45662	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to start by saying that the Club of Independent Representatives of the Future GLAS will, therefore, support the SDP's proposal to set up an investigative commission, in the case of Agrokor. However, I must also say that we do not have high expectations. In fact, history teaches us that no one called or who has been called to us and one level of aspect that they have decided, discussed, concluded the members of the investigative committees established by the Croatian Parliament so far, there was no missing hair from the head. And even then, you who oppose the idea of establishing a commission, I invite you to relax and relax, there is simply no danger that any of your clients and friends will get hurt. Let the DORH do his job, of course. We have nothing against it, even the more we would love to speed up the work. We would like to see a number of suspicions made publicly but also the facts that are known in public, get their court epilogue, but we see from these proposals that the investigation committee should deal with a number of issues that will not be addressed by the DORH. Because these are the questions that come out of their focus. And when we talk, like no one knew anything, from ministers, MPs, so we all know that's not true and that we're actually great hypocrites. Because we all knew if not everything, then something. We all have contact one way or another with someone who's been working there, with someone who's been doing business with them for years. Some of them knew that, for example, debt to suppliers of the book as short-term loans. I automatically mean the balance sheets were cut. If, then, you owe the supplier, per invoice one or five, and you know in advance that you don't want to pay him six months, so book it as a short-term loan, then it's already clear that this whole map tower rests on very bad foundations. Let's not run away from the responsibility of the political elite. Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic were good for many. Political elites competed in showing affection or loudly ignoring publicly asked questions about what is happening to Agrokora and how it grows and operates. Let us not forget, sons and daughters of excellent Croats, they are happily employed in Agrokor. Many of them still work there today. Let us not forget that Minister Maric is not the first member of the government to come from Agrokor or after his duties ended in him. Many state officials rank as ministerial assistants, state secretaries, chiefs, management directors, began or continued their career there. And it's not without hell that claim that Todorovic had his own people in every administration and government. A smart man, deployed them on time where decisions were made and where information could be obtained. But, living near the altar, he has provided his back with the main days. I'll remind you of only one episode. In the second half of the 90s, the daughter of the President of the Republic began to deal, to imagine the production of cornettes. And she had an exclusive contract with Ledo's factory, so she didn't sell any cornnets to anyone but Ledo. Can you imagine a more luxuriant job in this world? And after a few years, this Ledo comes and buy that factory. So, twice rewards you. And then two years after that, that factory shuts down. Why? Because he never needed it. The media was also the clients of Agrokor, or, formally, Agrokor group with its members was a media client, as one of the biggest advertisers, and in practice the media is their clients. Because no question could be asked and elaborated in the serious media in fear that perhaps the third, eighth and 12 pages, which today had just been equipped with advertising for Agrokor products from different companies, might have already been cancelled tomorrow. And so that truth was delayed. When everything is summed up and taken away, Agrokor is nothing more than a classic example of Croatian crown capitalism. It is a school example where the HDZ model is practiced, i.e. forgive Croatian conversions and privatisations. The honor of each of our tycoons and businessmen who started with their own money or borrowed it, and today they have big systems. I appreciate everything they've done to create value and new jobs. But Ivica Todoric, he didn't have to move like that. He didn't start from 0, he had what was given him on very favourable terms. And he's acquired under even more favourable conditions, space for expansion. Look, let's say, how many companies in the Agrokor system have taken as a percentage the money from the Croatian state budget for incentives. For its agricultural land and for its production. Especially at that time, when agricultural land was not processed at all or controlled by anyone but obtained by a hectare rather than by a manufactured unit as in normal countries. Remember, for example, some acquisitions of very important and large companies such as. Vupik from Vukovar or PIK Vinkovci, how many debts were first cleared and forgiven, and then the companies taught in ownership of the new owner. These are great conditions for who little anyone has in this country. It was a matter of prestige to be in company with Ivica Todorovic. How many Croatian prominent husbands went hunting with him, so how many muflones were killed in his hunting grounds, let's say, on Biokovo. For that helicopter ride and a few hours of shooting at the quarry, people were ready to do anything both judges and lawyers and ministers, MPs. That's why I say Todoric rolled many, they didn't forget him. It was therefore silenced when a group cartel was established, so it was silenced at abnormal market concentrations, and it was silenced in many situations where small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could not even dream of getting a payment delay, but the Agrokora companies, in particular those involved in retailing, had this special position not to send them inspections. Do you remember how many companies in the Republic of Croatia shared in their workers the bonuses of Konzum. The consum has been printing illegal money for years. I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Shuker in both his and his first and second terms, and this has become a means of payment beyond any law in the Republic of Croatia. No one asked them for heroic health, but they were responding naturally to broad arms and campaigns. So you remember that the promotional materials for the referendum "In the Name of the Family" were shared at the Konzum cash registers. How wonderful and how humane it was. What company in the Republic of Croatia has made so much for such a wonderful and humanitarian idea? None. HBOR's loans, we now worry about one of the 48 million kunas. Oh, man, be smart, so we heard today that the total risk exposure for the HBOR is about 600 million in Agrokor Group. What's this? Tricari, less than 10%. Well, at least we're used to bigger percentages in Croatia. But we were pleased with our provincial spirit in which imperialism stands, because when the small people started talking about the acquisitions in the region, then Ivica Todorovic was a hero who, without a shot, conquered large companies in BiH in Serbia and eventually went to Slovenia, he was a national hero. And who dared Ivica Todorovic to do something bad, so he passed on the fame and achievement of Croatian domination in the entire region. He should've given him the medal. The other day he said he should be called after him by the disputed square in Zagreb because he owed the most to the Republic of Croatia. Now that the pumpkin has broken and the love ties have remained dry because more of us in this flow of lymphatics into political structures, now many are neither crazy nor smart because they don't know what to do. They know it wasn't good, but they know it was part of it. They know it's wrong and it won't end right for them, but there's a little bit more power to stop the public story if possible. I don't have a problem so much with being voted Lex Agrokor because I really think that caring about 30 thousand people is something that you shouldn't doubt and care about a hundred and some thousand people who work for that system and there sell their products, is not something you can ignore. We have to be responsible for this, but we'll see how that story is set up. Will it break in five, six months and will the result ultimately be the same as if they went into bankruptcy because slowly, when you cut the cat an inch per inch of the tail, it will stay on the road. But it's a matter of government. We are Parliament we are talking about our responsibility. The investigation committee of gold will be worth anything if it invites all these people to ask for heroic health. How many mufflons they killed, how many days they spent on yachts, how much money they came from this great mercy, did they go to Milan to shop with the boss? So in the end, I suggest to Mr. Maras, if he is already chairman of the commission, that he does not start hard for relaxation but to start, if nothing else with the screening of the film "The Boss". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45663	Thank you, Agent Beus Richembergh. We've got five replicas on his display. The first is the representative of Boris, followed by representative Juricev. Mr. Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45664	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Richemberhg was inspired by the debate, congratulations. But I'll stick with this, this is a decision to set up an investigative committee and it says that on behalf of the promoter, it will be Davor Bernardić, Gordan Maras, Pedja Grbin and Arsen Bauk. The only one, he's here now, has been gone for half an hour. So it's his effort to convince me that I have to raise my hand for this. So much he doesn't give a shit about this. He wants his platform, he wants to talk, he wants to bring in or investigate... And then look at what questions he's asked, what all the committee needs to question, then I guess at speed he forgets one of the 13 in the decision. Let's just say the most important thing. In a decision that should be made. The 10th question, in this case, whether Agrokor’s assets have been protected in view of the ownership changes in certain companies owned or owned by Agrokor in recent years, etc., is not available in this second part. He was in such a hurry to forget. How did that happen to you? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So so much unserious material, means that you skip one of those questions to which you need to give an answer through a decision there is no, perhaps most important, it is the taste of all the others. And now I should be thrilled with the public's desire and interest that she finds out something and that we're working here, all nine people, to question, to look for papers, I don't even know where we're going to put them. And we look forward to this fine debate today. And you're so inspired to go through history, you almost responded to all of these points here but without paper. And now, I'm saying in an attempt to convince me that I should raise my hand for this I should put public interest in myself and say bravo, Maras, here's the real deal, you've prepared everything right and we're all for this. I'm not into dilettantes like this, I tell stories where everything was written at 13 points. Of those 13, it may be possible to explore this 8, at least somehow because it is the focus of everything, and even the announcement of this investigative commission for some future time means. So let's be honest, and then let's say, we're bothered by that and that minister and then let's let the story of Agrokor go, let these people work and earn their pay, at least today when they've already come into such a difficult situation, I say, with a lot of governments, with a lot of politicians that we should bring here for purpose. I don't see it through this decision, you see it yourself, and how much of the proposer's interest is to be here, we see it from the behavior and from a colleague of Maras himself who's half of whom weren't here right now and not even these other 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45665	Thanks, time's up. We're having some trouble with the meter, so time's up. The answer to the replica representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45666	My colleague Boric, since you are an expert on tourism, I will calm you down very quickly. You know, because of the superstitions on planes, there's no 13th row, there's no 13th floor in hotels, you know that? Well, my colleague Maras is superstitious, so he skipped the 13th. But don't worry about it because there's more, you understand? So relax, there'll be 13 of you, provided you raise your hand. Because as long as you're resisting it, I don't see much chance of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45667	Thank you, Agent Beus, for your reply. The next replica is representative of Juričev and then representative of Grmoje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45668	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear colleague Beus-Richembergh, I always listen with special attention to your discussions and I see that you are getting ready regularly. I don't understand when you say at the very beginning, you'll support the formation of this commission and then you say you have no expectations and that it would be good for the commission to be, even if you ask the individual actors for their health, how it was on their yachts and the like. I personally think that we have legal grounds why not support the formation of that commission. Perhaps you have read well too, and I would remind you once again, the Law on Investigative Commissions states in Article 4: “The investigation committee cannot be founded on questions that have been brought about so long as the proceedings are under way. ” We are aware that USKOK investigators are located on the entire floor of Agrokor's business tower, that the Tax Administration and Tax UskoK is inside, that it will also need to include international elements as Mr Cvitan says. Wait a minute, now we're back so we're on the DORH, so the DORH is already inside. In accordance with Article 125(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the position and powers of the State's attorney's office shall be governed. Under that provision, the Constitution of the State Attorney's Office is an independent and independent judicial body. Then how do you explain if we already have a DORH in Agrokor as a start, according to me, some kind of trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45669	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, Representative Beus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45670	And I'm going to try to be so nice, so the investigation and court proceedings aren't the same. Knowing how thoroughly this committee is preparing and conducting its actions and actions, I am sure that this committee has been working for a few years so that it will not be brought into collage with a possible judicial procedure, especially if we rely on this wonderful experience with our judiciary. Let's just say, I'll tell you a story. In this country, there is a pest, a bandit and a tycoon that has caused about a billion and 200 million kuna damage to Croatia. I spent two full years of my life trying to convince the DORH that he... And in the end, what happens? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For everything he was supposed to be in jail for 7 human lives, they charge him with not paying a tax on 20 million kunas of property he illegally acquired, so on taxes like Al Capone. And besides that, there's a story behind the corner that he's a repenter in one case and another, imagine these horrors and horrors. They offer him a witness to the penitent, that status. And come on, thank God, the County Court in Zagreb says it can't. Now they're in trouble. So let's ask these people for heroic health how many Cornets they sold, how many ice creams they licked, how many mufflons they killed, where they were all, what a yacht, is it good what was bought in Milan, and the DORH will deal with this when you took out loans, are you, I know, falsifying balances, why you weigh these, why you weigh those, and we'll deal with these political things, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45671	Thank you, Agent Beus. The next replica of Grmoje, after the representative of Grmoje, is representative of Nincevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45672	Dear fellow Beus, in your presentation you presented what I said on several occasions that Todorovic practically had his people in every ministry, that he tried to push his people into every government, that he had access everywhere and that no one had the courage to oppose him. There is an interesting situation that shows that Zdravko Maric is exactly the kind of man. So Zdravko Maric entered the first government as finance minister, I don't know whose proposal, I assume on the proposal of Ivica Todorovic. The first government we participated in. And then, when it weakened the political power of the party that led it, or its leader, Tomislav Karamark, at that moment of weak political power and the party's leader, it is being imposed as mandated. It wasn't enough that Todorovic had the Ministry of Finance, he should have taken over and run the government and he was the one for which the signatures were collected in that reluctance where we refused to participate, so together with the opposition we signed a motion to disband the parliament and for new elections. It is the greatest proof that this man, meaning he did not enter into politics to achieve some goals, ideas, but to please one man, a concerted one, and this also proved to be during this period of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic that we have seen, and I have repeatedly warned this about tax reform where the minister did not want to listen to me, about which disproportionateness of property can now be explored only for the past six years, before he could even reduce the rate, and only these arguments show that this man did not have the urge that every minister of finance has, to fill the budget. he went to make it impossible for the budget to be charged with the burden of those who disproportionate property.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45673	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya. The answer to the replica, Representative Beus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45674	I am not a fan of these conspiracy theories, but not only Ivica Todorovic had his trustees in every ministry, but I assure you there are them in MOST. I'm sure he's got them in HNS, and it's not even excluded that he won't have them in GLAS, I mean, the man's smart and capable, he knows his job, so he didn't row. You know how many years he's been building that story? Well, we all get together, we're not as smart as he is, if we had that kind of money, but we don't have any free money, if we all put our salaries together, we wouldn't be able to get to Kumler's castle on our knees to go. So I wouldn't underestimate him, he's a great man, so he was a castle pet, watch out. Did you happen to be on the Freedom Train for Vukovar? You're not. Look, I wasn't either. None of us were here, he didn't call anyone Franjo Tudjman, but he did. Because he was a great Croatian husband, and you and I are jealous of him, so now we're looking for an investigative commission, dear God, we have the right to do so. As for Mr. Maric, I've known him since he was secretary of state. He's a nice, decent man. He's always consecrated here, correct, he's always reported in a wonderful way, and he's very nice to me. What's more, I get the real impression that he's some kind of good guy. But "the devil doesn't plow or dig, but it's about evil," my grandmother would say, and probably yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45675	Thank you very much for representing Beus. The next replica of Ninčević-Lesandric Ivana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45676	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, in this very interesting exhibition of yours, you also touched the incentives, you said who knows how much encouragement Todorovic actually got. So here's the fact that I've been doing this job for a long time, I'm just gonna say that in the beginnings, so, when they just started to be available to us, in all applications, so the documentation that's being submitted for grants was essentially just the signature of the director. There was no demand for ownership structure, and you know that the director is a member of the board, he doesn't necessarily have to be the owner of the company, and now just imagine how many one person can have, here as a case of Todorovic, 50 companies, so 50 directors and each of them has equal rights to profit. Only a few years ago have we changed those regulations and introduced them, so that the ownership structure of the notifiers and related persons and societies is also seen. But for a whole series of years, no one followed that. Well, here's another reason for the investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45678	Said one of my Turopoly nobles when they asked him how you weren't ashamed of yourself, you took the state land for rent, and you don't do it, and you take the incentive, then he said so the people dear, what is it to you, he says, so I'm domestic. Isn't it better for me than for some on the side? As for the story of incentives, Mr. Todorovic has so many times encouraged all other people that the state had to give it back to him in some way, that love must have been mutual, otherwise it wouldn't have been love. And out of that love, there was such a new value that we became regional player number one. That's what I'm coming back, when he went to conquer the region, we were all like playing Chile. We cheered, the man bought, watch out after a few years of trouble and trouble, bought a Mercator. Those hateful Slovenians have been conquered. If he'd been released, we wouldn't have lost the arbitration agreement. Well, he knew how to do things to Slovenians, not you beats and amateurs. We're high policy. Government, diplomacy, so please. So that's why I'm telling you, he needs to be given this square that changes it now let it be named after Ivica Todorovic. I don't know who else deserved it in this country, who's so much capacity, it won't be easy to find. So, this is one story, I apologize a little bit for saying this, but you've become boring to me, I've been sitting here for eight years, this is the most boring meeting of the Croatian Parliament, give some people a living, give some emotion, show some show that you care, a little passion. You speak for the people. Technically speaking about things, that's not good. Wake up! We are people's representatives, and we represent the idea of righteousness, and that's why I spoke like this today, and you think about why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45679	Thank you, Agent Beus, for your reply to the replica. The last replica of your presentation is the replica of the representative Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45680	Thank you, Vice President. You told your colleague Beus-Richembergh in your debate that it was the public's interest to talk about this clientelistic approach and about the privatisation models that others didn't have because they didn't have their friends, best friends and relatives in the ministries and that the basis of this was successfully privatized VUPIK, Belje, PIK Vinkovci, and I would remind you that in '95, Jasinj's sixth problem in Slavonski Brod obviously because they didn't have any friendship with Agrokor, went bankrupt, disappeared from the market. It was only 64 million kuna commitments. And no one disputes the will and desire of the agricultural economies of Vinkovci and Vukovar to do business with Agrokora, because he basically saved those jobs and everyone looked at God and the image of something good. However, it was forgotten, and this commission should determine whose money he further invested in PIK Vinkovce, VUPIK because he had an obligation under that contract to invest in those companies, to raise production and make sure that workers have, to be employed by the one who is signed and to be paid the kind of people who will be able to live from their work. Is that so? It's not safe and it's not good to keep quiet about it and we need to talk about it so the public knows the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45681	Thank you very much for representing Vlaovic. The answer to the replica, Representative Beus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45682	I have to admit that I don't know the details of the VUP-ik situation or the PIC in Vinkovci. I know about this obligation, and I know it's not fulfilled, and I know that no one asked him about heroic health and I know it's not good. I know a little bit more about Belje, I know that part about winemaking and winemaking, and there's a miracle done. Not only was this famous basement of Eugen Savojsky restored, but it was actually cultured the second largest vineyard in Croatia. A lot has been done and it is not that it is not and it is not that Ivica Todorovic only cared that he and his children, the sons-in-laws and grandchildren spend it, the arch and the bank of it, a lot of it was done. But he was allowed what was never allowed. He was the one who had a very privileged position and he abused her. On that road, abuse has disappeared or many small entrepreneurs have been killed. Let's say the consumer supplier who raised 100,000 euros in credit to set one production line at six, seven months couldn't get his money, and in the meantime, credit annuities arrived. A lot of them got hurt. But he's not the only one. That's how Kerum stepped on them. That's how some others stepped on them. There is much to talk about, but Agrokor is the paradigm of the Croatian Frankenstein conversion and privatisation where the light was actually pushed into the window, and beyond that, an impossible situation has been created for you to be constantly in charge of that Kutla principle while you're spinning pedals is good, but when you stop, you fall like a bike ride. So, according to this principle, a mastodont whose problems now lead to major headaches is practically the entire economy. How is it possible that Croatia has even put itself in that position that because of one concert, whatever it is today is groaning the entire Croatian economy and fears what will actually be at the end of this recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45683	Thank you very much, Mr. Beus, for your reply to the replica. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next debate on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives and MP Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45684	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, in the name of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I say that we will support the decision to set up an investigative committee for Agrokor, because in the debates we have all had the main word of truth, we are all motivated by the rule of law, we all have the motive to be equal in front of Croatian laws and justice. And this commission is about to be determined, and I believe it will determine that we were not all equal, that Agrokor, or the Todoric family, was more equal than others. I've already asked the Prime Minister and the Minister and here in the assembly what total debts are known. Here we have today's business report in the first three months from Mr. Ramljak. The procedure has not been completed yet, it is still unclear how much total debt is, and the public wonders how much debt is and how it is possible that no one has reacted to bringing this system into such a dubiosis and how none of the institutions that should have been monitored have responded. That is why we are to establish this commission. It is also necessary to determine which institutions did not react, which had the authority to react in the control of the operations of the Agrokora companies. I asked here both the prime minister and the minister whether there's been any audits in recent years, the police's financials, USKOK, any inspections and if we have any information on what they found. Well, isn't it a shame that only after the international institutions and their information that the financial reports were cut off, we reacted only then when it was published in the media. Are the financial reports cut? Well, I think from what we've heard today in the debates about pension funds and reports that they've been selling stakes at the end of the year, shares to companies from Agrokor concert are saying enough that some of them knew each other. And only the government and ministers didn't know. And I think that's why the commission and the determination of truth makes sense, and that's why it needs to be established. The deadline for the application was 26. 11659 requests for 68 companies in the Agrokor system were received. 26 hasn't been considered yet. And here I leave my suspicions as to why some claims are considered, some are not. How many bonds were issued without cover? On what deadlines? We don't have an answer here either. How is it possible that the system did not react there and therefore has the justification for establishing a commission, to see what the IRS was doing there, inspection, the Ministry of Finance and other competent institutions. It should also be pointed out that what has been said is a concern for jobs and for us in the focus of interest and that every job preserved in Agrokor and their supplier is a gain for us and for these people. However, it is also important to tell those people what they expect after 10.4.2018 when this deadline ceases that companies from Agrokor should not be sued and executed, and according to today, here is a report for the first 3 months available, Konzum, Konzum BIH, Tisak, Velpro BIH showed negative operating profits, almost close to 200 million kuna. The real question is whether, with current business, with current incomes and receipts, these Agrokora companies can service obligations towards workers, towards the state, to suppliers and ultimately to banks. And it's a pity that banks, and it's a shame. foreign banks have a priority in charging their research, and that the Republic of Croatia, and HBOR, have not protected themselves and are not in the championship of the collection of their claims. For these reasons, we need to establish the truth and this commission to do its job. Of course, that you should keep your jobs, but I would also remind you that, I have already said the problem of Jasin in Slavonski Brod, but in Djura Djakovic's system, because of the wrong political decisions, more than 10,000 jobs were lost, the paws fell, there were some protests of the unions, but no one from the government from the ministry responded to try to find a law or model to save those jobs in Đuri Djakovic. And behold wonders, here at Agrokor, in 2 days or 3 days, there was a model to pass a law that protects jobs, protects the system of Agrokor and the family of Todorovic. I think that is how we are just showing that we are not all equal in front of the judiciary and laws in the Republic of Croatia, that we are not equally concerned about Zagreb and the surrounding area and about Slavonia and Baranja. And today, I also read that the doctor, the demographic Stertz, was shocked by the silence of the diameter, the government and the ministers, following the publication of statistics from Germany that more than 56,000 people had moved to Germany in the past year. And that natural fall is over 40,000 people. So 40,000 people died more than they were born in the Republic of Croatia. And that no one is concerned, and this is the result of these very bad policies, that we have allowed such a company as Agrokor to appear illegally to do what is seen so far and that this is why we lose trust in the state, because young people who have been surveyed have said that they do not trust in their Croatian state and because of this uncertainty, because there are no jobs and no jobs adequately paid leave Croatia. For both of them and for our sake, we need this commission and to restore citizens' trust in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45685	Thank you, Agent Vlaovic. We have four replicas on his display. The first replica is from the representative of Mladen Madero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45686	I thank the chairman. A colleague, Bacic, noted that 10,000 family farms depend on Agrokor. Well, not 10,000 family farms depend on total agriculture. Mr. Todorovic was Minister of Agriculture. He ran the ministry. These ministers who were, they weren't ministers. Mr. Todorovic was a minister who determined the price of wheat, the price of rape, everything. And let me ask, you were a colleague of Vlaovic's talking about control. You know the same thing, the control of young family farms that performed both the IRS and certain agricultural services. I wonder how much control has been done in Agrokor, how much control of its obligations has been carried out, especially as regards the tax, and how neatly it has been given state incentives. I mean, where are the state institutions that were supposed to do their job?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45687	Thank you, Agent Mader. Replicate reply by representative Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45688	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Madjer, yes, more than 10,000 family farms have requested at this point from Agrokor and you have well noticed that these claims were more than 12 months old. And most often, it was a debt-religious relationship that they had to accept prices and repromaterials from Agrokor, which was dictated by Agrokor, and it also dictated the ransom prices of their mercantile goods, their products. So here we are, and today we have a situation, to hand over wheat, barley, oiled tails and their silos, that we still don't know what the ransom price is, to change the code and the rules on the purchase of cereals during the harvest, and that again our agricultural producers will be deceived. That is why it is not good, that one system, such as Agrokor, has such an impact on complete agriculture in the Republic of Croatia and that we cannot, conditionally speaking, leave our agricultural producers, and of course we only need to be all equal on that market.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45689	Thank you very much to representative Vlaovic for his reply to the replica. The next replica is the replica of the representative of Mira Bulja, followed by Sinčić Ivan. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45690	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague, the commission, the commission needs to and of course we all want to look at what happened together. However, the commission I saw before you a colleague in his statement on behalf of this party's voice or independent calls to the edge, on his longevity as the HSS headquarters party has been for a long time, but you have indeed guessed. Minister Pankretic when he was and all the other ministers were under Todorovic's control. If it weren't for that, the guy in Vrgorec would have taken a chain saw and drank a peach orchard that had matured because its 4 kunas were in ransom, and those from import 6 pay kuna. And the man created his own so far for many years, a young boy, five, six years old, he drank everything. And now that we're talking about Todorovic and the commission, so here I am to the council representative gone I'm sorry I didn't give the replica, I personally filed criminal charges for the company that owned Tedeschi in Sinj because of the funds he collected, DORH did nothing in the Homeland War. Now I've raised against the CNB and the HANFA and how loud people here in the Parliament who favored Todorovic, all parties, suddenly say be sharp. When God Petrov filed a criminal report, he was bewildered. When he said no, you won't get Todorovic a billion and 200, a billion and a half kuna through subsidies and incentives. He gave it to Jakovina, and so did your minister and these ministers, and it's unfortunate that this doesn't even carry HTV, what are the empty benches, and my fellow bridgemen who aren't here, this is unfortunate, is this tragic is this brought down to a circus on such a serious matter. I support the commission, but I am ashamed of the people in this way that this problem is being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45691	Thank you very much, Agent Buljo. Please represent Vlaovic's reply to the replica. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45692	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, yes, needs the commission and I see that both HDZ colleagues would support the commission and that they too aim to be told the truth about Agrokor and Agrokor's business, and if they really want to make an observation on the proposal, let them agree with what would be feasible and let the commission do the job. Because it is impossible for a concert to emerge in such a short period of time to reach such heights without any illegal activities, especially since international institutions have shown us that the financial reports have been cut off and that in such circumstances it no longer wants to operate with such a company. It is therefore up to us to show seriousness to the international community and to establish the true truth here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45693	Thank you very much for representing Vlaovic. The next replica is representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, followed by Lenart Željko. Here you go, Agent Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45694	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned Jasinje, when we look at this combination of PICs, as you would already say Jasinje during the war at the time of privatisation, it is to God to weep about how powerful agricultural good it was, and how much was produced there after that, and how it was devastated in a very short time. Well, that encouraged me to, I mean, it's not even the only PIC that's a tragedy that's multipled all over Croatia, it's encouraged me to examine it, or to examine this investigative commission to examine the quality of food that Mr. Todorovic imported and sold in his Konzum via Agrokor. I think we'd find anything he imported and sold as something he wasn't who he claimed he was. So I think that as far as trust is concerned in a country which is one of the main causes of definitely eviction is, my opinion is that Croatia has been transformed at this time, it's a process that lasted a long time in one unfortunately losing state wherever you turn black, we lose not knowing arbitration, corruption, mass eviction, people simply lost faith. So there's no enthusiasm as my colleague Beus said, there's no passion, there's nothing good enough to convince enough people that it's going to get better soon. That's why I told Mr. Oreshkovic you have to tell him now it'll be different, but he missed it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45695	Reply to the replica, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45696	Thank you, Vice President. Coli Sinčić, that during the Homeland War privatisation was made and is often forgotten and demeaning the role of us Slavons who defended and created Croatia, especially us from Brod-Posavina County because 4 brigades were in one county, 3 in Slavonski Brod, 1 in Novi Gradiška. What county did she still have? Over 600 dead and then it happens to us that this same Jasinje can't be rehabilitated because of 64 million kunas, while other agrocombinates were then rescheduled to be privatised by Todorovic, but there are others to be open and honest and others. The example of Kutjev, which was rescheduled twice, is privatized and in the end, is now difficult to do, and I wonder if whoever bought it has now invested as much as he has committed to the privatisation contract. Did the state services check it because Todorovic is not the only one, there is more Todorovic in Croatia. And that is why this commission needs to, to restore this very trust in the system, to the judicial system, and to do something concrete and to know who created the debt, how much he is and who is responsible for it. Until that happens, there will be no trust in young people to stay in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45697	Thanks for the reply to the replica. And the last replica is Agent Zeljko Lenart. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45698	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's a colleague of Vlaovic's you've been talking about a lot of things that are a problem with Agrokor. HDZ colleagues are trying to cloud this whole story with these jobs that could have been lost or should have been lost if it hadn't been for the Lex Perkovic Act. But we don't think and talk about what goes with Agrokor, which is once the social property that went into the privatisation of these companies, we're talking about the agricultural land that is in the concession of Agrokor or its companies, but we're not talking about the ownership of these companies and agricultural land that we don't even know how much in their possession that these vultures' funds that are now giving credit and that buys time to survive Agrokor, after all that, when they're going to collapse and when they're going to need it all back and that our agricultural land, that is. The natural wealth we have will end in someone's hands, very simply, will be lost by the Croatian man, Croatian producer. And what Agrokora's policies did to Croatian low-price agriculture, with long payout deadlines, when the bill came before payment then it was said that it was not a good account, so it was rewritten, so it doubled. And many failed because they could not repay their loans because they did not receive money in time. However, the prices that Agrokor had set for us on the agricultural products market were below all levels, below all prices that the stock market would then have determined and the peasants would have been happy to sell at stock prices. And thank God the Italians had so much need for corn, wheat, so they bought that surplus we had and agriculture practically survived on that export to Italy and not on what Todorovic bought us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45699	Thank you, Agent Lenart, that was also the last replica. Now we're going to continue with the representatives' clubs. In front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45700	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. The fifth hour of the debate, a lot has been said and if we recapture the current part and the current course we have this balance. The SDP has proposed, MOST accepts, Live Wall accepts, HSS accepts, HDZ does not accept, HNS does not accept, so they appeared on the websites and other clubs did not sign up or express their position. So at this point, we still don't know if there are enough parliamentary deputies who will vote for the establishment of an investigative commission, the problem exists, because obviously the biggest party positions don't want it and they don't want to present to the public information related to Agrokor and about all the problems that are listed here and they're not few, I'm sorry, I forgot the new GLAS party that also accepts, they don't want to give information to the Croatian public, they think that the DORH should work and protect the public's interest what we don't think it is, but in fact they don't believe it themselves, but it's simply an excuse to vote against the decision for the commission. The Croatian public has the right to know everything that's been going on around Agrokor, has the right to know what's been going on about these controversial loans, the passing of laws, everything we've heard here today and no one can deny that information. And on the other hand, what is also very important, the Croatian public must not depend on the will of one party or a few parties in this, and they must not play the arbiter of what is public interest and what is not. So far in Croatia we have had a lot of investigative committees but I am absolutely sure that this is an investigative commission given the public interest and the importance of what has the most arguments to establish it. So if we've established maybe a dozen investigative committees so far, there's no problem with what's the problem with this? The answer can only be one, and this is that HDZ gentlemen want to hide information from the Croatian public, protect Minister Maric, probably Minister Dalic and all those links that have connected HDZ and Agrokor for 10 years. I said that at the very beginning, Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic said it was a recycled proposal to distrust Minister Maric. I'll say this is about a recycled '90s HDZ from the privatization time and 2000 from the time of the corrupt HDZ of Ivo Sanader. So if it's a recycling of such, or such HDZ, we can't expect anything from them. What is important, we will show as well as the club representatives and as representatives and as a party in the Croatian Parliament that we do not agree to compromises and non-arguments. And today I read in the media that there's been some SDP blackmail against HDZ that no constitutional judges will be voted on. But here I must say once again, it is more important for the public to get information about what has been marked by Croatian politics and Croatian society for the past 20 years than whether we will choose a two-thirds majority of the constitutional judge and we simply have to show that attitude. And I am convinced that Croatian citizens will understand that. So there are no constitutional judges until the investigative committee is established and started working, and only then can we talk about a certain consensus on other issues in the Croatian Parliament can be reached. So there is no consensus on any other issue in the Croatian Parliament until the Croatian public gets the opportunity to hear the truth about all these points mentioned in the investigation committee. Another thing that is very important here, given that this is a very important topic, it is very unusual that HRT is not following this session at all, means it is being followed in the tracks, but that is why we have a whole day of reporting from Slovenia, from the visit of Prime Minister Plenkovic that Croatian citizens have received at least two contributions as much as it was about this event, I think we would get better information and I have to thank myself, I said in a previous debate that this is being followed through Max TV, B Net, N1 TV, I have to thank these TVs that work to be the public work of HRT. Who deals with various deals, contracts, spending of public money, but this reporting does not interest him, i.e. it does not give information to Croatian citizens, and on this side here I can now say once again, that these services are doing at least one small part of the work or, in fact, in a large part of the job that a small part of the public is interested in this topic, is being informed about what is going on here. I once again appeal to all MPs to join the initiative, regardless of the parties, because I am aware of how important this is otherwise we would not even propose this topic given that Croatia has many problems, clearly which are to be talked about, but I think this is one of the bigger problems especially that some stakeholders of this whole cycle continue to act as the most responsible responsibilities in the Republic. So also Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric will continue to make these decisions on behalf of our citizens, on behalf of the majority in the Croatian Parliament, after the things we heard if no complete information is received and rejected, it is not possible for them to have more confidence in the Croatian public. I'm convinced that's what citizens feel. Thank you very much, I hope that here, by Friday, reason will be decided, that the HDZ Representatives Club will change its mind, and that maybe minority representatives will be manifested in view of their activity and the desire to change certain things, possibly that they will also give support, today we haven't had a chance to hear, but we shouldn't look at everything through the ruling coalition, should show in some situation and spine, or attitude, and allow people to hear everything they care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45701	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first one is the distinguished representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45702	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, at the very beginning you said that you knew how to vote our clubs that are now there, you don't know how to vote minority clubs, on many occasions you pointed out that this is a very important topic, that it is the great importance of forming this committee, the great interest of the public, it is a bigger problem and it is very sad that out of 151 MPs, this proposal is signed by 18, and out of 151 MPs on this topic, we are now present after the arrival and two colleagues, 17. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45703	The answer of the esteemed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45704	Well, I agree with you that it's not a good example, maybe that's why people don't expect HDZ to accept the arguments, but that it goes all the way to another place, specifically for us it's about the government of the Republic of Croatia. It's probably Prime Minister Plenkovic as he said, it's a recycled topic to him, and he doesn't want any more discussion about Agrokor, but he'll get it. This isn't gonna work. Okay, we're looking after it with these arguments, so we're going to argue if it takes every two months in the Parliament about this, so you won't, and we're going to try to stimulate people to make a statement, to speak, not to be afraid, and to say what they've been tortured there, and I assure you that few people who are personally witnesses of what happened at the Supervisory Board's meeting, for example, will not be telling the truth, or I'm convinced that many of them will be encouraged and tell you what Zdravko Maric was saying there, there's like colleagues and a tone record and we won't stop until it knows the truth. You can refuse this five times, I said, constitutional judges will not, on the other hand, be able to go to the government's impeachment request, the prime minister, every month something can be organised. But we won't stop. And every day it's gonna get harder and harder to defend that situation, you'll see. Because today people wonder why someone gets money and why someone else doesn't get money in Agror? People will be interested. Who there has the right to judge who will receive the money, and whether those who are in the Religious Council in front of small shareholders are privileged, while others have been waiting for months and will probably wait for more. So it would be of interest for you to get this light for us as soon as possible. The further time goes, the harder it'll be to watch what you don't give people information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45705	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45706	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague doesn't matter now how many MPs there are, it's important that we here present arguments that are indisputable. All the time there's been a rumor that some SDP's intensity is the collapse of the government. This government is not going down. This government is not going down, this government is being bought. These are the people who have been bought, who come here if necessary to vote. This is although the thin majority, this is the strongest possible majority, and this is not about trying to bring down the government. The government won't fall. But what we want to do is explore all the circumstances, determine what the institutions of fellow Maras were doing, what the regulators were doing, where mistakes were made so this wouldn't happen to us again. You simply do not have, or colleagues from HDZ do not have arguments against this request, no arguments. And don't hope your fellow Maras will support this proposal, he won't support it. He will not be supported by colleagues from the HNS who have launched Maric's recall. Now they won't support an investigative commission on Agrokor. He won't support it. But regardless of what this point is on the afternoon when the prime minister is in Slovenia, when HRT only monitors it, and does not follow this debate here at all regardless, the truth will not be hidden. The truth will eventually come out, and those who are trying to stop the truth and they may respond and be the subject of this investigative commission. Sooner or later, the truth will come out and what all politicians have done that have affected Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45707	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45708	Thank you very much. I agree with you that people without an alternative have no other option politically than to raise their hands. Look, these people don't even advertise, so they don't talk. I haven't heard one debate from an HNS agent on this matter. Five of them are here in the Parliament. It's like it's none of their business. Their spokesman is Branko Bacic, president of the HDZ Club. They came by on the website. They have no alternatives but to defend with their teeth what they have until the end of the term of office, because after that they will have nothing, or they will have what they share if they are given the HDZ on their list and it is a terribly sad situation and I would never wish for any party to be in such an addictive position. So either you vote or you're gone. And that's literally HNS in that situation right now. And on this side, I am at least trying to imagine that, let's say, MPs who fight for their mandates from office to mandate, such as minority representatives of counterpart Furio Radin, will at least be interested in a minimum, although I am aware that this is a topic of 100 class importance to them. To them it is much more important and probably has some of its own partial, or minority interests that are most often related to certain projects in the budget. But although minority representatives should make sure that this is a national issue, that they are representatives in the Croatian Parliament and on that side I hope that at least a part of them will support the initiative, and then of course we will come to what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45709	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45710	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, the investigation committee should be unanimously adopted and I hope it will be unanimous. A HDZ colleague said it is unfortunate that she is very few parliamentary deputies. Well, it doesn't matter what very few parliamentary deputies are, but it's painful, but it's painful that none of our TV shows in particular are broadcast. This, of course, is more important that Andrej Plenkovic is on TV all day long, a man who could change things about arbitration but did not change when it was due in 2009 or Mr. Bačić and all the others who could influence us not to sell that sea. But let's get back to the subject. The fact that 50 billion kunas of debt deserves a public and open debate through the commission. This is what the people deserve, it is what the workers of Dalmatia, VUPIK, Škvera, Split Ironworks, Sisak Ironworks deserve. The mixed industry is complete, the young are leaving. While pleasing to a person in the image and work of Ivica Todorovic who was a god on earth. And of course, what's a parliamentary representative going to say here or an agent if their head is a color tunnel, hits jobs, and they're raising money. What's he gonna say? I mean, they don't have anything to say. What are you going to say? What's it gonna say, say, people who come from the parts where they come from, you put them on the list. What's he gonna say? What's he gonna say? They don't care about the subject. It is important to talk about the law of Lex Agrokora 2 hours after Bačić who simply political manipulations, with his good will to help these workers essentially cloud the truth that the Croatian state has been robbed by individuals from this Parliament who would be on the main now television programs should be but it is a secondary role given to Parliament, given to Pharaoh because of you gentlemen, because of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45711	Dear Representative Maras will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45712	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, I don't share that optimism although it would honestly be of interest to the public and that justice would probably have been voted unanimously. But there should be no illusions that this will happen especially after these hollows and no arguments that this will be confrontational with the DORH. And you know what our only chance of adoption is? Vlado Shakespeare, our only chance is Vlado Shakespeare. Because he may now react when he sees that Miro Šeparovic will not be in the Constitutional Court and the other candidate they have proposed, so on the other hand it is our only chance for people to understand that we are not joking and that we will not agree to any cooperation unless there is cooperation on the most important things. This is more important than the Constitutional Court. And I'm telling you, only if Vlado Shakespeare turns on and explains. Is it possible that certain things change? I don't know if he's watching this, but if he hears this message and he realizes that the SDP doesn't want to co-operate on other topics, and I believe that the Constitutional Court is a particularly important subject to him, I believe that he will also explain to his colleagues Bacic, and to his colleague Plenkovic, to try to find a compromise on the investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45713	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45714	Thank you, Vice President. Although this debate is without HTV and without the general public, however, here is a broader message from citizens to follow and congratulate debates and care to determine the truth, where the money of Croatian citizens is, who is to blame that institutions have not responded and believe that these issues, as you said, need to be reached by consensus and that through the work of the committee it must come one way or another to the truth. And I believe from the debates so far that the HDZ colleagues will propose certain amendments to this proposal to you and that I, here, appeal to achieve this consensus and to reach a common agreement and set up a commission to get to the truth where the money of Croatian taxpayers is. In whose pocket it is finished and which of the state institutions has not responded and that we finally show that everyone before the Croatian law is equal and that no one is more equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45715	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45716	I hope so, 'cause that would be good. So I'd like HDZ to say specifically what's bothering them here and what doesn't think it should be inside. So there are 10 and more of these goals and things that are and what bothers them, what should be thrown out and possibly what should be inserted. So we don't have any problem with that. We've heard from the president of the HDZ Club that he's going to propose a certain conclusion, I don't know if he's here yet, but maybe the chairman of the gesticulars can tell me whether he came or didn't come, does he? Any suggestions, let's see, guy's conclusion, wait for the DORH to do his job, but by what means? So we don't know what the DORH is doing there. It could turn out any crime scene in, not related to all these things that are listed here. So, some normal justifiable, reason, amendment, to put something on, to throw something out, maybe something bothers them, although there's no reason to leave anything out here. And then we can talk. But there's no suggestion other than this prolongata, which should buy time again, no. What we should be waiting for now, so it was two months ago and said the HDZ Club would accept the investigative committee, but it would come to a hearing in accordance with the rules of procedure. Now he's going to say, he needs to postpone until the DORH does something like someone said, just before, so the DORH can work for two, three years. No, I don't. What are we gonna do about it? So don't work with us idiots. Well, it's just to throw the ball in the car, in a football dictionary, no. So the game's coming to an end and we need to throw the ball in the car or into the corner. So we will not agree on any of these proposals, but we will agree, if there is something essential and if a commission can be established on Friday, it may be the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45717	Thank you. Last replica, the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45718	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, I just find this all too expensive. I am terrified to actually watch all day of my colleagues trying to find a solution in every way possible, that is, to find a reason why they are against the research of Agrokor. The research of Agrokor. So is it really possible today, after everything Agrokor has done to this country, so he's turned it back for 25 years as long as there is. Is it really possible that there is a man in this country who is against the research of Agrokor? Here I just can't figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45719	Something will be answered by the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45720	Well, most of the people here who have discussed are for, so you have a few clubs, other deputies who are not pleading, who will probably go after most of them and that's a knap, no, that's 2, 3 MPs over, probably some will just appear on Friday, at the vote, not at all, no. And the reason is simple, so they don't want us to know what happened about it, about some of their current members. If Zdravko Maric had not been exposed, if Martina Dalic had not been exposed, it would probably have been discussed. If you remember INA, when she was, Sanader was already out of HDZ. They cared, no. Then it could also be discussed and explored and called and analyzed and received documents. In the end, we got court proceedings as a sequel to all this. The DORH wasn't in trouble back then. That's when the DORH was all right, no. It wasn't a cause of mistrust in state institutions. Otherwise, that's one of the stupidest reasons I've ever heard. I can't imagine myself that some serious party would explain that it doesn't want a commission, because it could violate the trust of a state institution. Check this out. And the law has been in force since 96. Tens of committees have already been established, and now they remember that. They think or that we're idiots and people who look at us and listen to this or they're not exactly, as they'd say more common, but that's the problem I said earlier, desperate people will agree to everything, unfortunately, that's how they're going to defend tomorrow will say there's nothing to do with what we've been up against all these years. I wouldn't bet in the end if they agreed and Markićka ran this committee for curative reform, they're so tough and they're so strong about their attitudes by those people from the HNS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45721	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate, and in an individual debate, the first one will speak to the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45722	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing a committee that should be, an investigative committee that should choose between us and see our parliamentary representatives discuss it, see, to talk to everyone who participated in this whole thing. The fact is that since the independent Republic of Croatia, which after the 9th century achieved this dream a thousand-year dream then at reconciliation for the first time in the history of the Croats, planning to finally realize that our country and we left it in a liberating Homeland War where great sacrifices were given, where people who were admitted and imprisoned and suffered were simply overjoyed that the Republic of Croatia was achieved. This was then in the community and sons of Partisans and Ustashas, both live and right and national minorities. And it was truly honorable to be a generation regardless of someone in the Homeland War someone was a schoolboy, someone was in a factory radio, someone was in civil protection irrelevant, but the Croatian people were unique. And that dream turned into a nightmare. Indeed, when the war began, I was only my adult life, and I observed that this would be what was said to be the dream of free and independent Croatia. As an ordinary man, I went to war, of course I never planned to be high-ranking in politics, but I was always interested in politics, and at the very first of those moments, I immediately became involved in politics in this movement which had led to the independence of the Republic of Croatia and by believing honestly and looking through the war of many victims and people who had given their lives, I couldn't believe or planned to be in a position to live because of those who had given their lives that we are here today, and we are talking about one person who has enjoyed this whole time from this Parliament to take over the entire economic system and to collapse and bring ourselves into a position to be 25 years later. 22 years from the release of an independent Republic of Croatia to destroy all these dreams as a tower of cards. That I didn't plan on being a parliamentary representative or a politician, but that's what happened, so I was in a position where you had to make decisions. But I cannot believe that this Parliament is the only God of the Croatian people above it, is so humiliated at this time that we are discussing as the largest body, as we are the national representatives of the largest body when it discusses the most important things in the Republic that are far more important than this Pharaoh System of Governance or this mental set of Sanaderism when it has tried to influence people with these bisects, when all of them are called on their friends and the most important topics are when they call on their friends from Brussels than this robbery that took place rather than all the occupiers of the Turks in these times. And the results are visible today where statistics in Germany say after Plenkovic's praise, 56 thousand jobs are less unemployed. Where are they? In Germany. Since 2012, there have been 225 thousand Croats in Germany today, 335, 110 thousand more Croats in Germany. We will now see indicators in Ireland and in other countries. Is that a free independent Republic? Is this an independent Republic of Croatia where one Parliament cannot because of this greatest robbery, the greatest high treason, the greater damage than the Serbs have done, the greater the damage that the Turks have done, all the conquerors in history who have made that one Parliament, us parliamentary representatives, you young MPs are not for the investigative commission. I personally filed criminal charges. Money is missing in Sinj. A million-and-a-half marks for the turn of Sinj and the Cetinski region were loaned to a company owned by Emil Tedeschi has never been returned. There's the mayor of Trila, it's a former municipality four times criminal charges. This isn't my first time, I was just a man to lift. I have raised now against Vujčić, against the workers of the Dalmatian woman I have stood in the protection of these women who have not made their own incomes. We're dying out of ends because of these people who either fished in helicopters, who had when they killed on Bioco's animals, they had their slaves running down to look for those animals instead of dogs, disaster, disaster. And you think about the investigation commission of 50 billion kuna, 150 thousand people depended on whether the Croatian economic collapse would collapse, referring to the Brussels lights, the impotence and ignorance of a man minister who opted out. Well, I can't imagine one general, say Gotovina, who was my commander, and I'm surprised by General Krsticevic, who was my commanding officer, that he was exempt in the most crucial battle and that he continued to be general commander afterwards. He can't, he can't, it's a scam. Well, people drink your orchards, plant them for years. The young man in Vrgorec in front of the cameras has been drinking for the time being. Yeah, it's funny, laugh. You can't talk about that to a man, Todorich. The moment he asked for that money, the moment he asked for support at the meeting when Bozo Petrov told him he couldn't do it, that he wouldn't let him do it, when a criminal report was filed, when he saw the information and knowledge, then the halabuca rose from where someone had the right to file a criminal report. And now you're calling on the DORH, not the investigative committee. What DORH? What DORH? What they have in drawers billions are at stake. We can also open investigative committees about your coalition partners, like wind power plants. A billion and a half kuna a year. About banks, 4.5 billion kuna on fees out of the country annually, on fees and fees, no interest. The Croatian people have been robbed but this Parliament has to be in the prime time of public television, but that's Stipici, Jasen's friends, Bačići, Sheks' godmothers from the Constitutional Court to Bačić's club president, it's so networked. I know that God's Petrov was once objected to by the best man of the one he hired, not even employed, objected to by law. And Seks all best manes, president of the HDZ club godfather, in the Constitutional Court, president of the godfather, in the Supreme Godfather, what "Cosa Nostra" was a little tumbling, was complex, ie, so much about these schemes. And now we're in a position to make parliamentary representatives out of the fear of this great Miller,... Miller was a very good player in the SOA operational action in the Osijek area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the reason, gentlemen, because we don't have a commission? So let's get serious. Let's raise this hand no matter what the leads of the SDP. Either the leads here are MOST, or let's see what it was about no matter what those commissions have never produced before, but maybe this time they're the results. I think this time serious people would catch up to work, seriously because it won't be worth the rule anymore if you can't solve the problem of establishing a commission. What's this all about? Because of what was sitting in this House were people who only favored Todorovic. So it's not the key to Todoric, it's where the culprit was, sitting on these benches, in this air. But this isn't where the government comes from, so this is where it comes from, we're responsible if it isn't investigated. We, we, me, you, we're responsible. All from Chairman Reiner to you, Mr. Grmoy, we're all responsible for me. Therefore, commissions are prescribed, their jobs are known, their roles are known, and their goals are known. And I believe that this is positive and that this is good and I believe that colleagues from both HDZ and MOST and colleagues from other parties, SDP and HNS will, of course, raise their hands to the HNS' chief counterparts for this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45723	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45724	Dear fellow Bull, you have well noticed that this is a bound-up story. Many have benefited from Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic, many have hired either relatives or friends, I have even said mistresses somewhere. The question is what's been going on this year and what can come out. And that's what they're afraid of. Maybe after this investigation, Ivica Todorovic will end up in prison, maybe that's what happens. But what they seem to want is to make it impossible for those who favored him to know the full truth, and today, the representatives of the HDZ who supported this initial Commission of Investigation to change their position today after the HDZ Representatives' Club and now stands firmly behind it so that the investigative commission will affect the investigation. We are not talking about criminal proceedings, we are talking about investigating all the circumstances, roles, institutions, regulators and everything else that allowed Agrokor, or Ivica Todorovic to create such a concert that in this way affects the Croatian economy. That's the key questions. HDZ colleagues don't have an argument, they don't have to be us, you're wondering how many of us there are, I'm here, I'm enough, when HDZ colleagues don't have arguments. Here, let everyone come from HDZ, I am alone enough because the truth and arguments on the side of the people, the MPs who are looking for an investigative commission in this House. Those who have no arguments are mostly silent, here are colleagues from the HNS who are silent, they've sent some kind of statement, they're writing on Twitter, they've tweeted a lot today not to support the investigative commission but because they don't want to endanger the institutions. So what kind of story is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45725	Thank you. The answer of the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45726	Well, yes, you're fine, I'll be leaving from the end, the CNS has signed for the recall of Marić Minister, but former Minister Vrdoljak, i.e. Their coalition partner called the Ledo Ark because of the meaning of the icebox that's filled with ice cream given to him. But about that, by that. It was agreed before the coalitions, we were familiar with it, we know the lobbys within the energy these same, so I will say the robbery intentions towards Croatian energy. Yeah, you're right, who's all busy, I'm sorry there aren't any SPDs here, and the SDP minister's wife has got from Canjuga's wives, these, they ask, I think that's what to list now, it's been working, it's been getting so intertwined inside the political elites. No one's related to me or the consum salesman, so the merchant is the most common. So there's absolutely nothing, but I'm sorry about those people when I see them and we need to protect them, and I agree with that. But we need a commission to state why the Croatian economy was destroyed. Which is why all the subsidies went to Ivica Todorovic, to some Enver Moralić, to Kutjevo and Djakovo, who does not meet the obligations, to some Emil Tedeschko, we see, we should look at everything, because they cannot create an empire. For example, in my Sinj, people who didn't have five kunas in their pocket in the 1990s, in '91, suddenly owned everything. What was good, they own all the facilities, they have a neat building permit because they're old cultural facilities that do good business, catering activity, they don't need building permits now. Therefore, a serious topic is said, this is a serious institution, I think it was necessary to protect this institution, that the President of the Parliament will ask that these be the TV transmissions of Croatian sessions, that the people hear and assess what this is about, but they have clouded this because large water from Slovenia has now ordered them not to do this on television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45727	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Mark Vučetic, I'm sorry, Sladoljev. The way he was always sitting here, then he stayed in my head, so I'm sorry about my colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No problem. Well, Mr. Bulj, you compared Mr. Maric's exception to the general and the war, and I'm sorry I'm not in the Homeland War, but I'd like to compare it to football. You are rooting for Hajduk, I for Dinamo, we both love the Croatian team, so now imagine that the menu Cacic is actually Mr. Plenkovic, and that Rakitiæ, i.e. Mr. Maric in a key match for the European Championship and World Cup, the World Cup final, one of the most important matches of the Croatian team says I would take off from this game, play against Switzerland, I started my career in Switzerland, I wouldn't play that game, if I came in for a goal, I'd miss it on purpose and now his menu Cacic, i.e. Plenkovic says play the game, if there's a chance of a goal, willfully fail, it doesn't matter if we have one less player. We may have played the most important game in Croatian history without the key players and that is the taste of everything. So, it's about the exception of Minister Maric who was a key player in all of this, and I think you compare the situation with football because you had a similar observation with the Homeland War and the General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45729	Something will answer, dear Representative Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45730	Well, I'll agree with you, but Maric was set up here to do part of the job because it is a fact and is evident at the time when Tihomir Oreskovic was, in fact, in the wake of HDZ's impeachment against his prime minister, that he was the prime minister at the same time, Maric, on the proposal of those who asked Oreskovic to resign, it was Greguric and Valentic. They're coaches of this case, he's just their extended arm, and that's a fact, and we don't have a slow one. Well, that's the same thing as Andrej Plenkovic, so we don't have a dispute here either. However, in Parliament, we here in Parliament, we must do everything to make this public and transparent, the President of the Parliament in this case, the Vice-President, they must insist not to humiliate the institution of the Parliament, the parliamentary representative, because it is above the government. This is a parliamentary democracy and this must be directly on TV broadcast, on public television. It is a democratic standard of parliamentary democracy. It's not like this in Korea. There wasn't a time for Saddam Hussein. Parliament is the one who debates the water, where the public listens and wants to hear something... And in this way we are transparent, public, because the people have empowered us to speak for them, not underestimate this House, in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And work the circus, the President of Parliament's Parliament because it's locked in these four walls and we're talking to each other. The Croatian voter is obliged to hear this... Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they humiliate and trample this Parliament for their interests. Because here is obviously Gregurić and Valentić and Sheks, they are above Parliament, but we are these parliamentary representatives and you gentlemen from HDZ and we from MOST, and SDP, any party, we must not allow either the President of the Parliament or the Head of HTV to degrade this House. And we'll do it as hard as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45731	Thank you very much, thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45732	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are not much in the assembly, but the arguments are understandable to everyone, are not understandable and are not acceptable to those who take the stand, who take it on the basis of what the great leader says, so HDZ representatives mean counterpart Bačić and counterpart Boris tried to defend indefensiblely, means the fact that they supported the investigative commission, that today would change their position even though they have no valid argument to do so. So, it is about polling Croatian citizens, and asking them whether or not the Parliament is launching an investigative commission, investigating the circumstances that led to Agrokor in this way affecting the Croatian economy, jeopardising the entire economic system, that the government must react by passing an unusual law, I am convinced that most citizens would support this proposal because citizens want the truth, citizens want the truth about Agrokor. Citizens want the truth about Ivica Todorovic, but not only Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor, but everyone who has allowed Agrokor to grow to these scales and influence the Croatian economy like this and be the subject of the past few months. That's the main theme. And this main theme these past months is not the main topic today, today is not the main topic because Andrej Plenkovic and these mentors mentioned by colleagues Bulj, Greguric, Valentić, Seks. So they decided that this debate would be on the day of the prime minister's visit to Ljubljana and that all the media would write about it without writing about these arguments that we are making here in the Croatian Parliament. Those arguments are inconclusive. They are inconclusive and anyone reasonable will support this proposal. Everyone's reasonable. This isn't about the SDP proposal. They tried to get their HDZ colleagues into the motives from which the SDP's motives do so, and then some say the motive is to bring down the government. It's hard for this government to collapse. This is the bought-out majority, it's hard to collapse. But to every honest man, the majority of them and the way that they came to that most of them are tormented, but the majority of them are firm. This isn't about that. This is about investigating the circumstances that led to this situation. And why would anyone who didn't have a bullet on their head be against this? Why would anyone be against an investigative committee that will not have Gordan Maras sitting on, but that will be the representatives of all political parties. What kind of head path do you have for your HDZ colleagues? Or you're just listeners listening to the great leader. I don't know what's worse, I don't know what's worse! I couldn't sleep if I didn't support this proposal if I didn't support the proposal to explore a man who has turned many Croatian farmers, many Croatian OPGs, many Croatian citizens into black. Well, here's today's demographic Stertz attacked the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic is leaving us young. Well, they're not leaving young people just because they're out of work, they're leaving for that reason. They're leaving just for the reason that you cited as a reason why this commission should not be launched. Trust in institutions, and young people no longer trust, have no hope of doing better in this country. That's what you're calling yourself. You can be ashamed! You may be ashamed to call on such arguments that offend common sense. That's no argument! What trust in the institutions, if we don't know what kind of investigation the DORH is carrying out, or what is being investigated. We're looking for a broader context here. We are looking to investigate the very beginnings of Agrokor not only the role of Minister Maric. For him, it is clear to everyone in Croatia that he knew what was going on in Agrokor. And when it comes to the responsibility of all members of the Supervisory Board, it cannot be the same as Minister Maric. Minister Maric was highly positioned in Agrokor and is also the finance minister, a man who knows the situation, who needs to know the reports he received must immediately see what the problem is. And he should have warned his colleagues. But I am convinced that the tone record for which counterpart Slaven Dobrovic asked to be published in full. But if there isn't an investigative commission, who knows what to do with the tone record? Who knows if he'll go out and who knows what he'll do, and I'm afraid of it. That is what Prime Minister Plenkovic is afraid of, because it is no longer just Minister Maric's head. This is about the head of the Prime Minister who was fiercely defending his minister, although here in the Parliament, he was given all the facts. And now that a week of paperwork has come out that shows that the minister had to know the exposure of Ledo and Jamnica, that he had to know it still the prime minister thinks it's a Teflon pan and that he's going to be able to shake it away from himself. But Teflon also has a deadline for use and Teflon has a deadline for use, Mr. Plenkovic. And you won't get out of this easily. And Zdravko Marić will finally come to you! And the fact that you defend Minister Maric so firmly shows that you don't care about the truth, that you yourself are involved and that you are obviously protecting those mentors who put you in this position. I told my colleague Bull in that first government of Miro you're the most dangerous weapon for HDZ. When the Stazic rises and the HDZ attacks, they bloom, it is ideal for them. Then they grow ratings, but when you're a Croatian defender who's been on every battlefield while they've stolen Croatia, when you get up and when you hit them, it hurts the most. And look, there's intelligence around you that fills you with certain information and you might be able to use it for a situation where someone needs to be eliminated. The elimination of Tomislav Karamark, which may have been, which may have been needed, was the man involved in the affair, was one intelligence action with certain circles in HDZ or the circles behind HDZ, the elimination of Tomislav Karamark corresponded. And it's no wonder that there are two MPs who everybody knows don't have hair on their tongues, that when they hear about some kind of criminal activity that they're going to tell her right here. I wasn't a representative at the time, I was a spokeswoman for the Most. No wonder Miro came to you and to me. That's not weird. And all that clicking, now it's back on HDZ. Everyone's back together. A great reconciliation, Miro. They're all at Sanader's book presentation. Luka Bebić and Shex are now together and Ivo Sanader. What is the position of HDZ Club President Branko Bačić on Eve Sanader now? Do you know Miro when enemies unite? When an even more dangerous enemy appears. A political option has emerged, which is not part of the structure, a political option that has forced HDZ MPs to vote on the Archive Act in this House. A political option that went into economic illustration. The political option told by the president, Todorovic, will not give you a billion kuna, a political option the president has filed against Ivica Todorovic. This may be this little, painful and strange truth, but I'm telling it and I said some things maybe I shouldn't have said. But I've said everything I think and feel and I've said in these tiny years since I've seen politics. This is a great unification, a great reconciliation, to protect the old structures, structures of a deep state, large businessmen who are practically old communist directors, who continued to manage Croatia and master Croatia while you were killed on the battlefield.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45733	Thank you. Here's a replica from the Honorable Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45734	At the presentation of Ivo Sanader and Vladimir Seks and Bebić, then suddenly roses are booming and these structures are now united precisely because of this danger of threat, but it is, of course, under the stick again, Greguric, Valentiæ and those same masters who simply realized that they must defend their positions together. And the fact is that the destruction of Oreshkovic was essentially a product, imagine where the courage to continue to be minister in the technical government is at the same time the technical diameter of Tihomir Oreshkovic, and you prime minister. Imagine what kind of person this is and where the power is drawn from in the first place, and the diameter was proposed by the HDZ, which is why I changed my mind then, i.e. Got an opinion on Oreshkovic, when he resisted and said you will not, Mr Greguric, Valentiæ and the rest of you, that this is how you lead me as a doll at the end. But unification is interesting. They guard their structures and Ivo Sanader, simply, they understand it and accept it as their father, leader. I've been trampled, I think I've been trampled for the time of Eve Sanader down in Sinj on all sides. The forbidden participation in Alca, but that's why they call when it comes to the Parliament, Mr. Bačić, I will, but they won't call me as an ex-Alkarian boyfriend, as a member of the administration of the former, and even now I'm also a member of the Knights' Alkar society, but when they come to the Parliament, they won't call me. No way, regardless of the tradition of the Alkar family, they won't. Yours will call because you are highly positioned in the youth of HDZ. Yes, I founded it, Tudjman turns in his grave. Tudjman is turning in his grave what's going on with the state. I'm telling you, I've established it. I founded that party. Andrej Plenkovic was thinking in 2011 of which party he was going to party to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45735	Thank you very much. We've got a job injury. Tell me what he's hurt about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45736	If you can shut down just... I apologize, but I don't understand why this insult, that it's about me, what, the late President Tudjman is turning in his grave for what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't get it. So I understand that you're in pain, that you're... He didn't call, when he came to the Parliament, it wasn't that serious, it wasn't that big a conspiracy theory against you at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the thing happened by accident. But on the basis of that, you are now calling me, because I was, I guess, at the reception of the Parliament, that now the late president is turning in his grave, I don't understand. That even if you had an option, which happened to be somewhere on the ice, you have the right to comment on it, I don't understand it. And smart up here and HDZ and everybody. What brings you together?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45737	I estimate there hasn't been any... First, let's not throw it away. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I estimate there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The answer will be to the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi... You're the one who broke the rules of procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45738	.../Intruder Bull: Yes, I did./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45739	Here, what's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45740	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238 under paragraph 5, where dissuasion of MPs is indicated. Yes, I said that the man who said in Sinjska alca that Alka is symbolising the unity of the Croatian man and the survival of the Croatian man in these areas, that's what Dr Tudjman said on Sinjska Alca for the first time, in that sense. You've politicized her to the pain, where I guess we'll sign, now that I've been running for mayor myself and my... support to another candidate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not Alka, it's not HDZ, it's not SDP, it's not Mira Bulja. But your insult in the end, that party you're sitting down, I'm the founder. I as a boy, wore flyers, warmly with my uncle who was a political prisoner, who died sad, which happens during Sanader. Don't tell me about HDZ and Tudjman, because absolutely, all principles have been issued. All.../Speakers speak at the same time, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45741	I estimate that the Rules of Procedure are absolutely not injured, and we suggest that if you all agree and we give our word to our colleagues Grumoji to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45742	Dear colleague Bulj, I don't know why you're upset and replicating to your HDZ colleagues. It's people who base their position on having to listen to this or that great leader or to some lower or higher level. That's not what you and I went out, and that's exactly what our young colleague says. That's what our strength is about. You didn't have to talk to anyone to get on the Bridge list, and then the citizens on that list, you didn't need any special warning, brand they say HDZ's brand, you didn't need a brand. You had your name and last name and what you did from the time you were a Croatian defender and so on. And while they were worshipping Eve Sanader, you told him in the son’s market, a traitor will come to you, and then they gave him up. They bowed to Tomislav Karamark, so they gave him up. Now they swear to Andrej Plenkovic they'll give him up, too. He will also be given up because he too will have to answer for what is happening, for protecting crime in Agrokor, for the situation that the HDZ as the ruling party that rules Croatia at all levels does not allow so much minimum democracy that in the Croatian Parliament the most important topic in Croatia about the situation in Agrokor, they do not even want to allow us to do so. Well, TV's been occupied a long time. They have the president of parliament, they have the president of the state, Prime Minister Plenkovic himself boasts about it, they have the prime minister, they have most counties and so much democracy is not allowed by the party that created the Croatian state and who fought for democracy along with other parties and Croatian defenders primarily not even allow that minimum democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45743	Thank you. The replica was also reported by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45744	Thank you very much. I don't think this is an accident for my colleague, Grmoja, not only planned for today's debate, it's not only that Prime Minister Plenkovic went to Slovenia today but it's also being elected by the Supreme Court president of the Parliament, today was a session, today was a debate and about three judges of the Constitutional Court, so it's all done so that as much space as possible for this topic to try to push it out of the public's focus, which I don't think will work out because we can't allow it. And I want to say here and I confess, here's what people have told me now that N1 TV is still following this debate live, and on the other hand, I think it's a big deal, that one television is allowing the citizens of the Republic to hear what the arguments are for and what people will not have the opportunity to hear since HDZ has not yet seen their proposal, and counterpart Bacic has announced it. So he hasn't arrived yet, he's got another 10, 15 minutes of debate until he has to come up with a proposal to see what HDZ wants out of this request and what it wants to put in. If there was such a will then there would be a deal. The only problem is that HDZ doesn't want a debate at all and that's what Croatian citizens really need to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45745	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45746	Dear colleague Maras, I absolutely agree, but I think that HRT as a public service paid by all citizens should transfer this, that it should give more space to this debate but definitely this is one of the operations in which this debate was deliberately placed in the afternoon on the day of the visit of the Prime Minister Ljubljana, and some more topics were of course also important today to put as little importance in the media as possible in this topic. And that's Prime Minister Plenkovic's plan. He showed yesterday how he meant to close this story. He's just shaking, I said he thinks he's Teflon, he's from Teflon, but he's not gonna make it, he's not gonna close this recycling story because this story isn't recycling. The documentation came out from which someone representing himself as a capable finance minister, a financial expert had to read that Ledo and Jamnica were heavily exposed and that this loan should not be given to these two companies. And he had to warn his colleagues sitting on the board of directors. And I guarantee you because I know Slaven Dobrovic, I know what kind of man he is, I guarantee that he is telling the truth and that the minister participated in the debate and that he was on the sidelines of these two loans. He did not urge Slaven to go to Slavene to vote for this loan, but he was in the debate, so Slaven told me that he was not at all involved in the debate that there were questions and that the debate went in the direction that Minister Maric himself went in the direction of granting loans to these two companies. And then he took off after that. For that reason, for other reasons, we want the investigative committee to investigate all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45747	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45748	Thank you. Most people in this debate about Agrokor deal with individuals, deal with names, but the systemic problem that led us where he led us is generally not mentioned or hidden. In fact, the question arises why so many companies deal exclusively with Agrokora. Namely, what's this about? Import chains had cheaper import goods. And why does it matter? Excuse me. That's why it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45749	.../Intruder Reiner: Don't just sit down with your colleague Marasa in your lap, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45750	There's no room, there's no room.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45751	.../Intruder Reiner: We are wide but don't do this./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45752	The point is, import goods were cheaper. And what was going on? Domestic producers could actually only sell their goods to Agrokor. If they didn't want to sell Agrokor, if they were on the shelves of Lidl, Kaufland, who was already third, there's no competition between their goods. You'd be more expensive than an import and you wouldn't sell. And then they agreed to sell only the Konzum or that Konzum is their main distributor on a small condition, on a small condition, of course Todorovic told them he could, he could have a higher price, as you'll have to be a little patient. And little by little they were patient and in the end this patience turned actually into a crediting of Agrokor, indirect, and finally and directly through those bonds, regressive etc.. Why is this all important? It's important because other than the fact that at the end of this let's call it, these tragedies, so in a year when Lex Agrokor passes, then Agrokor will go bankrupt and a billion euros will go out of Croatia. Because these vulture funds are in America and these foreigners will be charged and they will draw money and here in Croatia will remain ruins. And what's going to happen? Someone will take Agrokor. But this someone who takes it not only won't return it to their suppliers, so suppliers can say goodbye to their claims, but someone will say why I would sell more expensive goods, why would my market share fall? I'm going to give you a picturesque example. I know from experience that everything is cheaper in Lidl than in Konzum. And I'm going shopping in Lidl, for example. And what's going on? Whoever takes over the Consum will either have a choice, or they'll take cheaper goods from the imports or lose customers. And eventually, under market pressure, because people buy cheaper simply be forced to buy, or sell cheaper import goods and actually domestic production will collapse within a year, or domestic production companies will lose their markets. Now, no one sees that problem. Why? Because it's obviously from the plane, that's what we all here in the Parliament know, but unfortunately, many citizens don't. So the citizens don't know that the CNB has the role of the exchange office, i.e. You tell them that and they don't understand what it means and you tell them that the kuna is worth more than it should be worth, that is, that you can buy more imported goods for it than you should be able to, but they don't see the problem. Why? Because it seems to fit them that I can... Excuse me, Mr. Bull, if you want to talk, please go outside and talk to your colleague, Maras. Thank you. So this is an important topic, Mr. Bulja may not be interested in what I'm saying right now, but citizens, citizens, I guess I don't care either. A lot of people are full of hats, and they tell me what I have to listen to right now. You have to listen to me because I have to repeat this and I have to repeat it because you have to understand it. Although it seems to the citizens that it is cheaper for them to buy imported goods than it should be, it leads to the collapse of domestic production in the long run. And without a real course, there's no agriculture. If you decide that an importer, say corn, will be cheaper than domestic corn, you will either have two choices as a producer of corn, or you will sell it below the price at a loss, below the cost of loss, or simply give up production or you will run a farm, milk cows and get blocked and occupied because below the price you sell milk or simply send those cows to the slaughterhouse. And so it works actually complete, mind you, complete our system. In other words, our entire economy, or its production part, let's call it Kraš, let's call it agriculture, Belje, PIK Vinkovci etc., it all just goes to waste because of this course everything from imports is cheaper. In the age of socialism, what happened? The currency of the dinars was weak. Which means the currency was a lie? This means that the import goods were more expensive and as much as you produced the pig, PIK Vrbovac would buy all the pigs. Why? Because the domestic pig was always cheaper than the import. And as much as you could make a pig, so many of these pigs were buying it. Today the situation is such that simply imported pork is cheaper, imported chicken cheaper, imported eggs are cheaper. And just the whole sector is dying. Then why can't we talk about this? It must not be spoken because the exchange rate policy and monetary policy we accepted in 1994 was declared to be a sacred cow with no alternative. So it's better if the production goes down, our farmer doesn't have anyone to sell to, it's better if the import goods are cheaper, it's better if people don't have a job, it's better if people go out, people can't get those loans back than exchange rate policies. And on the one hand, we can analyze the causes of the breakdown of Agrokor but this commission, although I'm going to vote for it, is essentially not necessary for me to understand the causes of the breakdown. The causes of the fracture are next. The primary implementation of the restrictive monetary policy, as the reduction in the supply of money increases its price or interest. It's a high interest pool, with too little cash mass, so just some inflation of monetary mass, the growth of monetary mass was small. Simply the interest was greater than that, the taxes in this system were large, simply Todorovic, even hypothetically if everything had worked fairly, it would have failed again. Because in this system he was doomed to success. And I can yell until Judgment Day that money for interest payments doesn't exist, and that we'll all go to waste but just people don't want to hear it. I can say that the course is unrealistic, they'll say what it has to do with me. I keep speaking in the Parliament, people, the only party in the Republic of Croatia who asks to change exchange rate policy, to abolish the currency clause, and to weaken the kuna, to finally purchase import products and to make domestic products cheaper, to start domestic production and employment, is the Living Wall. Unfortunately, I would like HDZ lawmakers to say that monetary policy needs to be changed. The CNB has to stop being a currency exchanger. I would like my colleague Maras to say the same thing, I would like my colleague Grumoja to say the same, and to say that Croatia must have its central bank, and if he did, if he said the state must be financed directly from the central bank, there was a lot of interest, I did not want to see the enemy in it, I would tell Grumoja, let's go together to the elections, let's go this system beat. But unfortunately, there are very few people in this House who want to change the monetary system. Most simply accept this present state as it is, even though it sees us leading to certain destruction. And they want to find a million other reasons besides that monetary one, they're getting bigger and bigger. We can discuss Minister Maric's shift for hours, and let's say Minister Maric from personal contact with him, I can say he's actually like a person, I'm not going to say the most honest one, but he's okay, he's a person, but he's simply in a role that's a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45753	Thank you. You will now again perform in your final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45754	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, those who condemn the Ivica Todorovic business model and those who send the DORH to investigate it run the state in the same way that Todorovic led Agrokor. And how was Agrokor led by Ivica Todorovic? It was conducted in a way that loans were returned by taking new loans and by increasing the debt over time. The same governance model has a state. The state has no way to repay the loan, then it takes new loans, and with these new loans it beats the old and in reality the debt of the state is growing from year to year. As the debt of the state grows, the state slowly loses its assets. So creditors are looking for a privatization of social property, state property on the one hand, and on the other hand they're looking for an increase in the tax press to the citizens. And these are all related processes that ultimately result in the country falling apart, the people moving out, the children being born, people not working, etc., etc. However, our people are not aware of what is happening. He acts like an earring who stuck his head in the sand and, which is very important, in the book of Larry Hannigan, an Australian who wrote the book "I want the country plus five percent", writes the following at one point, says, there was a party politicization, let's say, he says party politicians, and then politicians competed with each other who would find a solution right. However, he says, whatever solutions they offered no solution worked and taxes kept increasing year after year. And why is that? Because no one was allowed to deal with the cause of the problem. And why don't people deal with the politics of the National Bank? Because they know that these private banks that keep us in slavery, in debt. The banking cartels, they know they control the media, and tomorrow, if one of you stood up against that financial elite, tomorrow it would be on the cover of the Morning List and demonized. And it's my desire for people in this House to get the courage to say yes, the problem is that the debt can't be paid back, so that's why the companies fail, so that's why there's a lot going on, so that's why the country's on the outside. But unfortunately, I don't know what's going on with you in Parliament. I don't understand why you don't want to see this problem. Why don't you want to see this problem? And at the end of the day, what's going on? You're fighting here, and I'm fighting with you, but about what? I'm trying to say that credits are invaluable, that money is created only as a debt, that the state has no power over money and that's why we're in loans and no money, and you're arguing about everything except that. Anything but that, ladies and gentlemen. Why you don't want to see this problem seriously, I don't get it. As a member of the Croatian people, I felt, or I feel duty to do everything I can to help my people. And you, unfortunately, instead of putting your people and your country's interests first, and you put your interest in the second place, you put your interest first, and the people second. Each of us in the Parliament is looking at his own interest – I am watching too, there is no dilemma about it. Everyone looks at their own interests, but the interest of society must be above my own self-interest. Well, I can't put on such a situation that I'm personally fine, that I have a salary of 17000 kuna, and that others are digging through the trash and I'm saying it's normal, so it has to be. So gentlemen of the HDZ, from the SDP, from the Most, let us raise our voice against our country's financial occupation. Let's raise our voice against the current central bank policy. Let's raise our voice against the greatest fraud of the modern age, and that's money as a debt. Let's stand up against a conspiracy that's prepared from the outside and that we're forced to carry on from the inside. Let's stand together and do good for our people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45755	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45756	Dear colleague Pernar, since we are now an opposition party as a MOST, and that you are as the only option to a large part of the government, and a small part of the opposition party because I must remind you. So, Juro Martinovic, who was on your list, is the State Secretary at the Justice Department. counterpart Misic is part of the ruling majority. At the crucial moment when President-in-Office Petrova was elected, he supported Gordan Jandrokovic and allowed HDZ to take up the third key position in the country. So with the president of the state, the Prime Minister, they'll also get the seat of President of the Parliament. I don't know my colleague Lovrinović he's here somewhere in between, so you've practically split up. So one is a part, one is a larger part in the government, one is smaller in the opposition. And you now have the tools to do all this, and here we will give you as a MOST club, as an opposition party fully opposition party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45757	The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45758	Dear comrade Grmoya, I am not running away from that unfortunately part of our representatives who went to the elections are part of the government. I am sorry that out of the eight MPs, at one point the government, or three. But what is a key detail, so Juro Martinovic was not elected to the Parliament because voters chose me preferentially. Currently from our coalition, only Misic supports the power of our representatives, and Škibola supported it at one point and managed to change it, i.e. I believe the RBA Act of Cooperatives will succeed in changing. But as I would say, I admit that among our people, not everyone was perfect, I admit, I'm not running away from it and I'm not hiding from it. And my goal is not to say to argue with you on a personal level and to claim that everything is great with us. It's not. My goal is to tell you that the country is under financial occupation and that unfortunately Juro Martinovic and Misic have nothing against it, that they are actually part of the system. And we can't have those who decided to turn that way by force going back to let's say the right way. But I can invite you as an agent to stand against the current monetary financial policy. And I'm telling you honestly, my wish is not to go to elections against you and criticize you. It is my desire for us to go to elections together and change the financial system in Croatia which, if it doesn't change, will ruin citizens and businesses and the state at the end and ourselves, because the people will consider us responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45759	Thank you. Now, the closing word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most High Court will have a distinguished representative, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45760	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at first, i.e. in this final word, I say that I am expressing indignation and I call on the President of the Parliament to protect this House and to ensure the right of the public on Croatian television, because it is a public service and that our citizens have the right to hear us elected on key topics such as this topic, not that we write our own in four walls, but here today there are social networks, so Parliamentarians are trying to do so to those who use social networks to place their views on this very important topic. The investigation committee has been set up four or five times before. I hope that this commission will vote unanimously regardless of what the HDZ colleagues have told the SDP that this is their second, MOST's third. Here should be a common goal that's what we've all been calling on, that's true. The fact that in the freed Republic of Croatia since the Homeland War is the cause of the biggest crisis is the crisis in Agrokor, which is one man's policy from this assembly, which is essentially appointed by the government, the parliamentary representatives in the last 20 years handed over the entire economy to Todorov, who is not the primary culprit. The political elites in this House while fighting for the state allowed all governments to control Ivica Todorovic's economy. I have already personally filed criminal charges against the Croatian People's Bank and Vujčić and his Vice-Governors for part of the job, and this job has been, meaning that they are following the meaning of financial stability, and in particular where we are aware that he is leading the stability council, which is required to monitor and report this Parliament and the public on what is happening, and that Vujčić himself admitted, as governor, that in 2012, everyone knew about the problem, when he was 10 billion kunas, without debtors, i.e. The debtor, without cover, took advantage of Agrokor and this was essentially a blow to Croatian monetary policy and financial stability. And I really hope that we will unanimously vote this, and I call on all parliamentary deputies not to trust the great leaders, as has been believed to Sanader, while it has been included, located and transferred, persecuted the most prominent and responsible sons of Croatia, that the biggest robbery has happened in Croatia, this is the case of INA and MOL and the white nights and telecommunications and our other companies that we have lost in my area, in your areas, therefore we as parliamentary representatives, must be public, transparent and we must allow this commission to do its part of the work, as has been the previous commission. So in this case, I can only see the problem one, which means one person's dictatorship and the fear of the parliamentary representatives. Don't be afraid. I was in a situation as a parliamentary representative, where I voted against the will of the decisions of both your club and the Bridge Club. It's not that simple. In this case, you don't do anything except allow us to get to the truth. It's the only option. That is why here, finally in front of the Bridge Club, which supports this, no matter how it goes, but I expect from all of you fellow Members to be folk representatives, to raise our voice against the harras, against those who have robbed the state worse than the Turkish Empire and everything after that has happened and all the conquerors. Therefore, we can all change this system together, if not, then this Parliament no longer makes sense, but let us name Pharaoh, and hopefully the father's time has passed, but otherwise we see that you worship him again, but I sincerely hope that you will resist and support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45761	Thank you. You'll be replicated by the esteemed representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45762	Dear fellow Bull, you have one big problem with your exposure. You're calling HDZ MPs to the MPs. And the Electoral Law, unfortunately, is still to a greater extent that the election in parliament depends on the party leader's will. And unfortunately, most MPs, not only of HDZ but also of other MPs, thus refer here to the Croatian Parliament and do not listen to common sense, do not listen to the arguments, listen to the facts, but listen to the decision taken by the government, which Branko Bačić at the HDZ Representatives' Club today, and which now firmly defends even though there are no rational arguments, against the research commission on Agrokor does not exist and does not exist. They're gone. To whom it is not in the interest of the High House's investigative committee to review all the facts, investigate all the circumstances, see the behaviour of regulators and institutions that allowed Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor to threaten the Croatian economy in this way. Who would be normal, who would be rational, who would be reasonable, who would be honest against that request. Independently, the Proposer, regardless of motives, regardless of wishes. A colleague of Maras can dream of taking down the government of Andrej Plenkovic. But that government is bought, it's solid and it won't fall. And I don't need to get carried away with it, and if someone gets carried away with it, they don't need to get carried away. But we must all be together, as you said, in this attempt to investigate all the circumstances surrounding Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45763	Thank you. In your line, the Honorable Representative Bulj will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45764	Thank you very much. I have only told colleagues from HDZ and others that they are people's representatives that we have nothing to fear in this committee, because apparently their ringleader wants to protect someone and have no reason, no reason to support this commission, because they will also be participants in this commission, i.e. That's why their representatives and the people chose them. And here I fully agree, that there's obviously pressure on the MPs, and there's no reason, under cover, like trials are being conducted, which is not true, but investigative actions. If that's true, I don't have information, I expect to support this unanimously, and I'm confident that the MPs will unanimously support this. Whether it was proposed by HDZ or SDP or Live Wall or HSS, absolutely it shouldn't be any problem. Therefore, the fact is that there are obviously great players here being protected. It must not be met, because the truth would come out, and the truth is something that obviously doesn't correspond to either Greguric or Valentis or Shex. So, because it's obviously Dad again, i.e. Father as they call him, Dr. Ivo Sanader, whom they worshipped. They simply bow down to Sanader, Kosorica, Karamark and choose it all unanimously. And those who oppose the parties are your future president. I remember the words that read like this, so a big round of applause was given to Tomislav Karamarko and came out the only Andrej Plenkovic, who said not to depend on the government or HDZ on one person and now on the case of Maric, who was Karamark's same proposal for the mandate, depended on the whole government we didn't have two months, but you precisely guessed never the stronger power is now with Milorad Pupovac, HNS and Saucho, never more firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45765	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. After this long debate, I am pleased that the Croatian public had the opportunity to see who stood for what, and I will thank again those media houses that transmitted this transmission. I will use this time to make a summary of our proposal and what the SDP is prepared for and what was the idea of this investigation committee and how they are, or what they are, representatives' clubs and how they have participated, or how they decided to set themselves up in this case. The wish or idea of us in the SDP is, after a great public interest, following the problems that the company came into after a whole series of affairs that were happening around Agrokor, we have decided that the Croatian public has the right to know and get all the information relating specifically to Agrokor, the circumstances of its creation, its current positions on the market, the emergence of its business problems, and the new circumstances in the adoption of company laws of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and the circumstances relating to the allocation of certain loans, the specific credit of HBOR companies owned by Agrokor, which received just before the end of 2016 at the end of the year 48.3 million euros. The question was whether we could get consent in this House, I can express the satisfaction of what the vast majority of those who debated today except HDZ and individual MPs, it seems to me that this is a fellow Mišic from the party to change Croatia that people were in favour of giving information to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because if we could establish ten commissions of various, it means the last one was about the Immunological Institute, if it was an interest to the public to hear what happened there, then this problem is about Agrokor something that is the most important topic that has come up in the Croatian public and in the Croatian Parliament. I hope that in the next two, three days until the vote itself, most MPs will gather to support this. Our people have the right to know what's been going on and what's going on in Agrokor, what's the problem, how our government has been setting itself up according to this and how the situation in Agrokor is now being solved. The main objection and the objection of HDZ and the HNS club was that this would be confronted with the DORH and the HNS had made one claim which was unseen in Croatian politics, that such establishment of an investigative commission would lead to confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. So we have a law on investigation committees passed in '96. the year which clearly states that in this case can, and I would say and must establish a research committee or cases related to Agrokor and that if the DORH were to come to a particular situation which would result in a judicial process, that the commission would be exempted in that part. So we have a law that has made it very clear what needs to be done and this commission in that case has a foothold in the law. I would also say that if we were willing to hear what does not correspond to HDZ and that some HDZ proposal amended certain things in its proposal, we have not received so far. I don't know if the last few minutes of this debate will arrive, obviously not, the HDZ colleagues have clearly decided that the Croatian public has nothing to ask about Agrokor and has nothing to hear about Agrokor. Since this is so, and the SDP's Club considers this topic of national interest, one of the most important issues that we have had in this House's term, for us no other consensus is acceptable, nor is it a consensus on the election of constitutional judges. And here I will say once again, we will not vote for judges until that commission is formed and until the Croatian public has a way to get to this information that I think they are interested in. It's our way of fighting in this House. Someone may say that the position of the parliamentary majority is whether or not they will accept such a decision, but the position of our opposition is whether we will accept co-operation on topics that require consensus unless the position supports us in justifiable demands and those things that we think are of public interest. So I say once again, there won't be a chance that we can vote for constitutional judges, so as long as it takes. I don't know maybe HDZ decides to transfer this topic and this vote to the 9th month, which I think is worse for HDZ because the problems there will escalate because trust me after this, more information about it gets out in public. And I think that with time people will come up with an answer and that eventually under the pressure of the public they will have to give you answers and those answers will not only give the DORH and can't give them away, because this commission would not even be confronted with the DORH. No DORH investigation takes a month or two days, or six months as far as the commission is concerned. We all know the cases of Vidosevic, Sanader, it takes a year. So Vidosevic was detained in 2013, we were just beginning to have an epilogue in court, and we all know that in no way would there possibly be a trial in these six months as far as the commission, the investigative commission would work, so there would be no real contact between the commission and the DORH. It is only one excuse that is quite transparent and that people see, that this is not voted in the same way as we have heard in the past months that it will also be voted on by the HDZ Representatives' Club when the debate is held, the debate will be in line with the Rules of Procedure, that is, today when the HDZ has decided. So now we have another excuse that should delay decision-making and we're going to ask ourselves in the way I said, so there's no cooperation on any matter of consensual type, and that's the first question that happens on Friday, the question of the election of constitutional judges. I also hope that the representatives of the National Minorities will go for what is the public's interest, not what is the interest of HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic and Zdravko Maric, and that they will support the adoption and vote to make this decision on the establishment of an investigative commission. Also, another thing that, if we refuse to do so on Friday, means we will not stop there, we have enough opportunity to open this topic in the Assembly, continue to support both the public and the media in clearing up these relations, and there will be no continuance or no matter how much HDZ and most of them have asked for it, because we think that Croatian citizens deserve all these answers that we have listed here, no matter how much they seem to who they are and what motives. So people can have all kinds of motives, our motives can be, whatever the people who discussed them today, and also the HDZ that we want to bring down the government, that the goal is something fifth, political, irrelevant. This government will be very difficult to bring down with people who are condemned to cooperate with it, it is clear, but certain conclusions and information through the public work of the investigative commission must be obtained by citizens. So it's not about who has motives right now, it's just that there's a HDZ who doesn't want to give information and there's a SDP that wants everything discussed and what Boric said during the SDP's term. So I don't have any fences here, and I don't have any reservations about all the questions being raised as a member of a government in the mandate in which I acted before, after, whenever. So I don't have that problem. And it's not my fault that those problems have some others who are now current ministers. And they're not even Croatian citizens. And we agree again on several people who are in serious conflict of interest, problems and because of them this information, I mean not only us as representatives, but the Croatian public, Croatian citizens cannot get. Prime Minister Plenkovic acts in a way that he does not experience demands, justified demands by either the opposition or the citizens, but well, all comes at a charge once. And I'm telling you, in the end, it's going to be much better for HDZ to discuss this now than to discuss it when the crisis in Agrokor culminates and unfortunately how things are going there, I'm afraid it's going to get harder every day. And my colleague Shucker was talking about maybe someone was hoping to sell something out in Agrokor. We from the SDP won't sell anything like we didn't do in the '90s, and we won't do it now, but there's one party that did it in the '90s that's going to do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45767	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45768	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, the blackmail that you will not choose constitutional judges because they will not be accepted and I will not say immediately that the research committee is not worthy of the SDP but is not the way in which serious parties act. If you believe that the choice of Constitutional Judges is a concession to HDZ, then I do not think you understand enough the importance of the functioning of the most important state institutions among which the Constitutional Court is certainly. I listened very carefully to you today and you said that you either lied to Maric or lied to Mr. Dobrović. I highly appreciate Mr. Dobrovic, but I believe there is an audio recording, as far as I have the information, the sessions, the meetings of the HBOR Supervisory Board are being recorded. If the video shows that Mr. Maric was right, how will you and SDP personally be placed after all these accusations that you have made against him based on a statement by Minister Dobrović, former Minister of Dobrović and now a parliamentary representative? And what happens if Mr. Maric is determined to be right, will Mr. Dobrović then have any consequences for public deception? And third thing, I'll end it. We had no intention or I said that on behalf of the club we would support the amendment and if we had him, he would be on the benches. We will postpone the conclusion on your proposal on the basis of this debate, which we held today in replicas by HDZ representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45769	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So first here is the tax on these 3 things, so at this point the SDP estimates that for Croatia and the Croatian public it is much more important to get a commission than these 3 judges. The court will function, it has its quorum, it can work and nothing will happen. But this is a very clear message. This is not a concession to HDZ, but it is something that two major or largest parties in the Croatian Parliament should cooperate on. If you ignore what is important and important to us, we also estimate that there is no need for cooperation on this issue. Croatia is not in a situation like it was a few or half years ago or a year ago, when we did not have a majority in the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court can now function and our assessment is that we cannot make such an agreement unless we give the Croatian public the opportunity to hear all the truth. As far as shooting is concerned, I hope that, and that would be logical, I have already proposed today, that members of the Supervisory Board agree to play a transcript of whatever it is from that session so that the Croatian public is familiar. But that no longer precludes the fact needed for an investigative commission. Well, we didn't just form it on that basis. So there are a whole series of things and answers that Croatian citizens must get. What will be established between Dobrovic and Marić will be seen. But these answers are far more important than just that one fact. As for your conclusion, our request is to form a commission on Friday and start working for six months. If the DORH has a problem with the commission, certain parts can be excluded and that is the only thing the SDP can agree to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45771	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45772	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I see you're in a good mood, but I'd like you to calm down. Please, colleagues and colleagues, take your seats. We continue to work with a vote with two important points of discussion for a long time. Here's hoping that we've come to the point now that we can discuss them and vote. So here is my first announcement: - Proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts about the circumstances of the Agrokor business concert, its position on the market today, the emergence of its business problems, and in particular the debts towards suppliers and other creditors, the role of market regulators related to Agrokor's business activities and circumstances leading to the activities of the Government of Croatia towards Agrokor, i.e. the proposal for a possible solution to the situation in which Agrokor was found. They are proposing 18 MPs, the SDP MPs' club and the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the applicant submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. So please determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum, that 124 MPs and MPs are present, and then we can also vote on the discussion of the amendments submitted by the applicant after the debate has been concluded. Please, let's vote. I would like to say that we have decided to hold a debate on amendments by a majority of 123 votes in favour and 1 vote against, so I would like to ask the proposing representative to further explain the amendments. A colleague of Arsen Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45773	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In view of the inter-party agreement, the SDP Club as a proposing in co-operation with other clubs has tabled 2 amendments. One amendment, number 1 refers to the composition of the commission, where, in accordance with the party composition of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed that I do not list everything you listed in the title, and I did not even remember, for Agrokor and is therefore proposed to be President Orsad Milenić, Secretary Marija Jelkovac, members in front of the parliamentary majority, Mr Miljan Brkic, Ante Babic, Marija Jelkovic, Josip Boric, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of parliamentary minorities, Gordan Maras, Nikola Grmoja and Ivan Lovrinović. As for the proposal for Mr. Lovrinovic, he emerged as a proposal of 3 clubs, behind positions with fewer members. The others made other suggestions, but this one got the most support. The second amendment also concerns the dynamics of the commission's work in October, also in accordance with an inter-party agreement, it is proposed that by 30.10, the commission, do technical work, and that since 30.10, it starts with this substantive part, as set out in Article 3 of the Decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45774	I am now opening a debate on amendments under the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 199(2), only representatives of the Clubs of Representatives may participate in the debate. So, I open the debate, first came by colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, second, Nikola Grmoja, third Zlatko Hasanbegovic. That's it. Then be my colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45775	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I must say, this commission had the support of the Living Wall until yesterday, so they weren't given this. It is about documents from the archives of the Croatian Parliament, concerning each other's investigation committee for Agrokor from '96, '97. A year. It's a case of stolen wheat. When I looked at the more detailed documents, and I copied some of them, I made it clear that it was a big scam, namely, in the files of eight centimeters thick, there's no phonogram at all. There's no phonogram at all. The conclusions, i.e., the records are inadmissible. Here, I'll give you a picture of it the following way. For example, Mr. Todorovic, Škegro, Valentić and some of the senior state officials, as well as, among other things, the directors of goods supplies, were questioned, if I did not cheat on 16 witnesses. So here's how Mr. Todorovic was questioned and what we have in the record today after twenty years. In his testimony, Mr Ivica Todorovic is shown to determine the price of the conclusion of the wheat export business, then continues to stand, on the loss suffered by Agrokor in the said export transactions with the State Directorate and the reasons for the loss, on the monitoring of the prices of wheat on the world market, etc. There are only questions here, which Mr. Todorovic said we don't know. What some other state official who's been questioned said, we don't know, if some phonogram has no response or anything in the record that they said. So we have a commission that was stolen, not just the wheat, but the commission. This commission does not exist, it exists only in the heads of those who participated in it. Therefore, if this is how it will work, that I do not say that the conclusion is concluded and what is then done, if this is how it will be done and in this commission that is now to be done, then it is better not to be established. It shouldn't have been like this, under the Law on Investigation Commissions, which is weak, it needs to be fixed, it can be 5 to 15 members. If we had an Immunological Institute of the 10th Research Commission in the history of the Croatian Parliament, 15 members, if all clubs could have had their representatives I don't see why it wasn't possible here. We have now found ourselves in a situation where we have a commission of nine members who have never been in opposition to the end or who has never been in power. In other words, what I said in my speech a week ago, "When you're sued, you're being tried." Let us remember the bono scandal during more than one of Mr Milanovic's governments was a rather intense topic then the ministers of the then ruling majority commented that it was illegal and that it should be contained and, of course, not contained, and now some of these ministers will investigate their political responsibility because the commission is primarily because of political responsibility, not because of criminal law, now some of these ministers will investigate their responsibility for what they were doing or did at the time. I don't think that way you can and shouldn't work. As far as the appointment itself is concerned, if there must be nine members, the office should be nine members, if that is the will of the parliamentary majority, but then we must stick to the principle of proportionality that we did not adhere to. Representatives of the five clubs were brought to consultations with the opposition to come up with a proposal in just about five minutes, and I will say so for the ninth candidate, I have nothing against my colleague Lovrinovic, but we discussed an account there without a barrister. So it was debated who would take the place, and there were no representatives of the HSS. How can we discuss something that belongs to a part of the HSS without the HSS? I refused to argue and negotiate in such a way, it is for me a harsh violation of parliamentary procedure and democratic practice. What was meant to be done is that this proposal goes to the Parliamentary Committee on Selection, Designation and Political System, where members were to be discussed. But no, we're doing it now by inserting amendments. Besides, I don't see why since July, since this was voted, there hasn't been enough time for us to meet and determine who will be or won't be members and how many of them it takes, but the problems happen at the last minute. I think it's just one parliamentary terror by two of the biggest ruling clubs, they're making deals, and we're having crumbs that stay. I'm not just saying this for myself, I'm not asking for anything for myself or my club, but if I have to, we'll take over duty and work, anyway. If necessary, we will be involved in the work of this commission, but at this stage in this way we cannot and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45776	Thank you. We have two-and-a-half replicas of this last of our colleagues, the Bunjaca, she's out of time, but let's just let him say it. He's a colleague of Alexic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45777	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sincic, I support your idea of being members of the committee from all clubs, but now the amendment can only be proposed by the decision-makers. So it's too late for the amendments to propose we, we missed it, maybe we should have proposed an amendment in that sense, but unfortunately for that now it's too late. And the other thing I'm trying to say is that regardless of whether they're on the board of nine members or it's gonna be more that the commission can't do quality work unless the commission is joined by top forensics, experts, economists, lawyers, criminals who know how to investigate cases like this. So MPs as advocates are in my opinion unable to investigate the case in a way that would be investigated by those who do such things otherwise. So I don't believe that unless they're employed at this job and people outside the commission who are extremely professional in these jobs and who are independent above all, I don't believe that this commission will do any better than the DORH. So such a commission as it is if it doesn't empower other people who know how to do these jobs in the right way won't be up to the DORH. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45778	Answer to the replica of my colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45779	Thank you, fellow Alexic. You've noticed the relationship between the work that needs to be done and the people who are going to do it. In my commission, maybe three to five people worked effectively, but we did the job as best we could, I think we did a great job. I expected some ministerial heads to pull a little bit more back, but part of it failed. Yes, that is absolutely why I have announced that we need to amend the law, so we need to from an investigative committee that needs to be as effective as possible to create an effective tool that will give too many conclusions and, of course, that we as advocates do not have enough knowledge in some cases and therefore we should introduce external members or some kind of professional support. There's another tool, and it's the witches. When I was working on the Immunological Institute Committee, I asked about a practice that I had never seen before in any of the investigation committees, which are experts. Do we have the right as a committee of the court to ask a court to propose to us a judicial expert that he interprets us not knowing accounting, finance, law, etc. The answer was yes. So I call on this committee to correct that defect in a way that at least takes some court experts. On the other hand, there's a huge job here. If there was one file cabinet for an INA or an INA before then, then this is about a hundred closets. And it would actually be desirable to be at the maximum capacity of 15 people in order to do all of this effectively. A huge amount of documentation, only a few people I don't think can handle effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45780	The second replica is the esteemed colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45781	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Sincic, first of all, I would like to agree with you in the first part that the ministers who should be as witnesses are essentially in the commission. They should probably come, former entrepreneurship ministers, well appointed finance ministers. The commission should be people who were not involved in power, people who would try to interrogate these people, ask for a number of information from them, not those people who were part of the government when Agrokor did what he wanted them to be the bearers of this commission. That's where I agree. I agree with you that the commission may have 15 members and that it is shameful and as you claim, if it has not spoken to the HSS. I believe that this should be discussed by the promoter, which is why not all clubs are represented, if it is not a problem to expand to more members. Once again, the most important thing in all this is the illogicalness of former ministers and high-ranking e.g. Police officials, the MAP, are on board. Those who should have protected against this crime. It's a good thing they didn't plant the heads of the tax administration, the heads of the CNB, the Vujčić, the illogical choice in the commission. I believe that most have the right to decide, two majority clubs but the illogicalness of those who were supposed to answer to the commission, they will essentially be in the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45782	And a reply to the replica, fellow Soncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45783	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, that's one of the problems facing this investigation committee. But so far we've only talked about this right-hand side of me, we should look at this left-hand side. We see in the commission people who knew or had to know a lot of what was going on. And for this reason I asked to be at least someone who is outside that system, outside that story and who will look at the documents in a different way and much more objective way and who will be a free man who has no debts or tails to anyone, who has not been on the Todoric payroll as was, for example, Mr Maric who will surely have a certain impact on this commission through his parliamentary representatives. I just wanted to do a good job, it's my wish still and perhaps naively believe, or I don't believe it's going to be the way it was supposed to be and how it was supposed to be. While I was running the Committee on Immunology, I avoided any political connotations other than what was needed, I didn't want it to be a debate club, and I think I did it. And I think that's how every commission should be run. However, it has turned out that where there is no camera, there is mostly no interest in political work which I am terribly sorry for, and I have fallen to the Croatian Parliament and many MPs in my eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45784	Gordan Jandrokovic. And a third replica of a esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45785	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, you have essentially listed a serious defect that we have in choosing this commission, which is that there will be people who should be witnesses in the commission. One of the reasons why this commission is being set up today is precisely the 1997 Parliamentary Commission, which had already been required to clear up the situation with Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic, which clearly said that the crime of stealing grains and achieving illegal earnings included ministers. So the government itself was involved. And that commission, of course, couldn't just condemn itself then, and the whole thing was an adaptation, of course, in the way we saw the key documents were hidden and then what was happening again happened. And that's a big problem. We have seen in these reports that have been published in recent days that Agrokor has been lending loans to highly positioned HDZ ministers. Agrokor lent loans to former HDZ prime ministers and loans worth 156 million kuna. Do you really think that if only members of the HDZ and the SDP who have therefore been participating in the government that they will pursue or tell the truth about the former HDZ prime ministers? He won't. And that's why they want to narrow down the number of members of the commission, they don't want to give other clubs to work because this commission actually has a purpose to calm the conscience of politicians in front of the public and not to find out the truth. For this reason, I support your idea that the commission expands with members of other club representatives and that nothing is hidden, that nothing is hidden, I repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45786	Here's a colleague of the Syncic reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45787	Thank you, comrade Bunjac. Here, it seems that after everything we have said and what will be said is that this commission is compromised as is the arbitration with Slovenia. However, the process will certainly go further, at this time it cannot be stopped. I was in a shock I haven't been in in a long time when I saw the record of this commission on stolen wheat. From this commission, we don't have anything from that file today. We have a bunch of questions, watch out we have a bunch of questions, we don't have any answers, so the commissions are being established that the questions that exist in this House are age answers and we don't have answers. There are only in the head of Vladimir Seks who's been doing most of the work here, but of that and from his testimony I don't think there's any point in even looking for him because it wouldn't be credible, so this will remain in the archives, your work will remain in the archives, my work will remain in the archives. So let's ask what in 20 years, in 10 years, is Agrokor going to be a strike point for a long time, and the consequences will be long gone, which some new generations of MPs will think is how their ancestors did the job, whether they did the charlatan, against democratic practice, or did the best they could under the current conditions. I'll just wish the members of the board good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45788	We move to another debate, the club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists and the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45789	Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I also agreed on Friday to work with the representatives of the Living Wall, protesting against the fact that part of the MPs were not involved in the consultation. Here can be confirmed by my colleague Beljak that I called him means that there was no representative of the HSS that it was simply wrong to choose the ninth member in this way, but what is the fact that the representatives of the Living Wall, representatives of the Independent for Croatia, could have the same number of MPs who proposed a colleague of Lovrinović in this Committee. Unfortunately, consultations both by the SDP and HDZ have lagged behind towards the rest of the opposition, but there was obviously a lack of communication in this part of the opposition to agree on the ninth member. Perhaps it would be better if the commission increased, if more people were to participate. I can also agree, I'm not saying that one of those people who was either in the police or were ministers or something else is responsible for Agrokor, but in public, there is a certain suspicion that they should not be and then that fact in itself is already compromising this Committee and its composition. Also, counterpart Sincic called for a commission that has not done its job, but what is now an advantage regardless of who may have caused this situation around Agrokor, the advantage is that the public interest is enormous. Every session of this committee will be monitored, every move we make, I feel one great responsibility to myself, I haven't been or had anything to do with Agrokora. Also to all these MPs who have failed to have a representative in the Committee, I make myself available, any information they have on the Agrokor concert or policy-making, act or inaction of institutions, I am willing to present to the Committee. I've shown on many occasions while some now have an expedient mind, now a splash of criminal charges, reminding you of dear colleagues, that here in April of the month, I presented one piece of information that the media presented as Grumoja's bomb from the Parliament, that tax and supervision was not in Agrokor d.d. 10 years old. So now I'm not caught by some kind of ex-post mind, I was talking while others were silent. We have filed criminal charges then against Mr. Todorovic and against HANFA and HNB fellow Bulj as early as April of the month he raised either before or even before, I don't know exactly, he may know better when he filed a criminal complaint. So I'm willing to present any information, as well as what my colleague Alexic said, we've definitely formed a team within the MOST that will work on this. Of course I don't feel competent, but surely I can do well to present everything our people prepare and experts and my fellow parliamentary representatives to the Committee. I have no fear at all, I have no connection with Ivica Todorovic and Concerna Agrokor, and make sure that on every piece of information I get that I'm going to make myself available to you all. And once again, I say, I'm sorry that those consultations that were being conducted were not much more transparent that again these two biggest parties had bypassed smaller clubs and maybe there was a model to include as many representatives of these smaller clubs as possible which I personally regret, because then maybe my job would be easier. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45790	Thank you. Five is a replica, the first is a respected representative of Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45791	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Grmoja, I must thank you, thank you to colleagues from the Living Wall and colleagues from the SDP who have called us and tried to find an agreement, but I have also received unofficial information that the other side or specifically HDZ was not for someone from the HSS, in particular I personally to be involved in this, so there has obviously been some compromise between the SDP and HDZ which is their right because they are together more than 2/3 of the parliamentary representatives. I understand why I'm not personally acceptable, I understand why no one in the Living Wall is acceptable, I understand why MOST is not acceptable, but there is no way around you because there is simply too much of you. It is clear to me that in the past 27 years there has been a string between politics, mostly HDZ policy, a small part of others and a major capitalist concert created in the robbery of Croatian property that has been created for 50 years. It's clear to me that there are a lot of those involved, I realize that we who are not involved in this crime in any way are not wanted to be in the selection of any information. And even if we were, and as my colleague Grumoja will see very well, he is proposed as a member, you will again be reputed by those who are simply more and who are not in the interest of all truth coming out in the light of day. It's a sad thing that one policy that's obviously come to an end, one neoliberal concept created in 1990 now ends up like this, I'm not going to say tragic, but I have no other words but to say so, in such a way, I'm sorry that people who are 27 years leading Croatian politics do not see it, that the time has come... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[...The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45792	Comrade Whiteman, time's up. Comrade Beljak, I beg you, 10 seconds have passed and we stick to order. Thank you very much. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45793	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, in a way that my colleague Beljak degrades and insults other MPs. So, giving himself the importance of insinuating that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club specifically asked him not to be a member of the Investigative Commission, which is not true. So we didn't get into who would be the opposition MPs except that we found that ministers in any government would be in a potential conflict of interest. I'm sorry you didn't. Here I am also proposing to the SDP to see your knowledge size, your understanding of the work of Agrokor and to pull a colleague of Maras, let's say, and then you're a member of the Investigative Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45794	My colleagues and colleagues, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is a matter of one minute to explain. So, I believe that no matter what is said by a colleague of the Beljaks has been injured by the Rules of Procedure so that we have no criminal action against it, but you have said your opinion. We're crossing now. Here's my colleague, Beljak, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45795	Article 238, they whispered to me like that. My friend Bačić, I don't need to have knowledge, you have knowledge. You've shown your knowledge. Unfortunately, the whole country sees it. Well, you were Eva Sanader's secretary-in-chief, so don't be angry, please! There's always something bothering you with me. [[Intruder president: colleague Beljak.]] I wasn't the one. You've been up there. Well, it bothers you, so I know that, I got the information that was going on. All right, just keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45796	We're moving on. A colleague of the Grmo responds to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45797	My dear colleague, Whitey, I agree with most of what you said. But I don't trust this commission's conclusions. I do not rely at all on the conclusions of this Committee because the people who have caused the problem of Agrodor should now decide on the conclusions of the Committee. I trust the media, and you know why? Because part of the media that praised Ivica Todorovic and who was on the payroll of Ivica Todorovic is now on the payroll of some others. Now we've got another boss who's funding that part of the media, and that boss is in the interest of exposing all of this before Lex Agrokor. There we will have the support of that part of the media to deal with now that man they themselves created with Ivica Todorovic. I trust that, and for this situation roll up the credit and this after Agrokor it is the task of us here opposition and these accusations that have appeared in the media. And I hope that part of the media will follow. So we're here now in advantage, no matter what their colleagues want from HDZ or maybe some SDP, no matter what their wishes to hide the truth, this is the war that extermination I'd say. So now Ante Ramljak, Martina Dalic is considered an enemy of Ivica Todorovic and can't just deal with Ivica Todorovic without knowing who helped Ivica Todorovic do what he did. And that's our advantage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45798	Thank you. Second replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45799	Comrade Grmoy, we know that the proposer intended the commission to have all the political options. But obviously because the Living Wall is right if it was not included as other political options or HSS were not included I see no reason not to look here in the way most must have more, less than let all political options be included. Why wouldn't there be 13 or 15 or 11 members? Which is why we would be in this commission exclusively, which is why we would be human. who they were. [[Intruder President: Comrade Maras please!]] Here I see that colleague Maras is nervous. Then I'll do it again. I can't agree to be ministers who were, yet the Tribals put up the entrepreneurship ministers, we should have put Prime Minister Valentis, Greguric, Schuker, Lalovac, Dalic Martin. We've all tributed meth in this commission, basically people who even the CNB will repeat Vujčić, Rohatinski, in this commission, and that committee will decide everything. The fact is that someone, people who were high-ranking in the police, can't either, can't because they had to protect against crime. I think Mr. Millian Brkic will agree that this is a long time ago the tribala is coming out, not waiting 20 years for MOST to appear or Live Wall or someone 100 so it has to come to the surface. This isn't funny, this is true! Those who have tried to guard and protect the system economically from the paws of crime and criminals are essentially placed in the position that they will seek who they will talk to and negotiate with. It's not here, it means logic. Here, the Tribals were to be people who were not on high duty, and that was the only way in which the tribal was to be a commission and to be represented by all political options regardless of the majority in Parliament, the minority, all political options. Because this was, this is an economic crash where we expect a new start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45800	The answer to Nicole Grmo's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45801	Col. Bulj, I agree because the political power ratio in the Assembly is such, HDZ has so many MPs and has the right if it is 9 members, meaning 5 or one HNS, and SDP also has the right to its members. As for the Living Wall, they were involved in consultations, but there were no representatives of HSS, and what was the fact that they were involved as we were too late. Everyone followed, or the entire public followed, what would be agreed between SDP and HDZ, smaller clubs, and so no one asked us. But we have 15 deputies, and then we have to have one member. But I don't think the Living Wall is unrepresented in this Committee. They have signs of a representative who entered from their list of Ivan Lovrinovic. After all, he was their candidate for mayor of Zagreb if he was good enough to be a candidate for the mayor of Zagreb which may be more important than the prime minister of the state, then he is probably good enough for this parliamentary commission. So they had so much trust to run for office, so I think they're represented in this committee and that's not why they should object. But I agree that they need to be dumb because of the way this commission is formed and that not all clubs have been consulted with it I absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45802	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45803	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned some facts on Friday and today, so it would be good to clarify them a little more and define them. So we turned this commission into soap opera. It's turned into a soap opera between the two strongest clubs in the Parliament, where they're making deals on who's gonna be and how it's gonna be. There was no reason why this commission would not start working when the Parliament began, and even more could begin with the work and the beginning of the 9 months. So, on purpose, it doesn't start working, and no one can convince me that it's not there, I have too many years to believe in chance, so, on purpose, that commission doesn't start working. I must also admit that I, as a parliamentary representative, have heard the composition of the commission on television. And after I heard, then I called the president of the SDP Club and said that whoever transferred Mr. Lovirovic, against whom we generally have nothing but a way. The way was really such that the deal was between HDZ and SDP, that smaller clubs, one of our smaller clubs, if it was a smaller club of five, then we smaller clubs were included too late. We were involved before a solution, in fact, before the final act. In desire, only in the desire for the commission to start working, not to turn it into soap opera, not to bring it into the fact that this commission really doesn't make any sense. The proposal was pragmatic, let's try to agree on a common candidate. The fact is, obviously we're smaller clubs, too. Now, we're turning it further into a sequel. My proposal is a sequel no, let the commission begin with work, and doubt about how and what will work, we will leave for further and see what will actually happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45804	Replication response, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45805	Comrade Taritash, I am absolutely with you and I called for reason here on Friday, however, now is the debate, so, because of this protest, the smaller clubs in the way the consultations were conducted, we will committee, regardless of the support, because simply and if the smaller clubs were involved, they would again be HDZ and SDP would be the absolute majority and we could draw the conclusions that they want, no matter what they will again, I repeat, the conclusions make. I am aware of the failure of this commission that my colleague Sincic spoke of, but all those people who participated in this commission, especially Vladimir Seks, we will call back here to tell us some things. And all those mistakes that were in the past, we now have a chance to correct. This is an opportunity for a new start, to put the Croatian economy on a healthy basis, to see which institutions have failed, which we here as a Parliament of legislative proposals can correct, which we can change so that no such threat can happen again. It is the task of all of us in the commission, but also of our colleagues, whom I am at my disposal, and I expect your help, because I think it is in the interest of this country, but also of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45806	Thank you. Four replicas, dear fellow Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45807	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I would have understood this, my colleague, as one pulsism of all parties here in the Parliament, who want to go to the commission and they have no idea about it. I ask you here how many experts there are here in the Parliament, who could enter the books of Todorovic, in the books of Agrokor, check his condition, their work. I don't see 2, 3 people around here who I would trust to watch it at all. And this is the story of pulsism. That's what we're looking for. So I'd like you to look for some independent experts, who have nothing to do with politics, who are professional in that section, to go in with a couple of people inside, and we have three independent auditors who gave their opinions and who are ultimately investigating both DORH and everyone else. This is a pure populism that we want to show ourselves, we're gonna, I don't know, we're gonna see what Todorovic's been doing for 20 years. Please, so where did you do it so you could ask for what paper you needed? You've never done anything, you've done politics, gentlemen. Who's to blame? Certainly left and right. For 20 years, Todorovic has been here on the market, so who's to blame, we all know it. How can we make it right now? We can if we have the right, professional people, who will examine in detail all the conditions as they are inside. Well, I don't know who's going to know anything. They're just gonna talk in the streets, I'm on the board, I'm a big guy. Because that's the question of our policy, the politics of pulsism in the entire House. So let's stop populism, let's let the professional people watch it, I'm the first one to investigate it all the way. Because I'm a businessman and I'm the one who pays the debts and taxes, so that's what Todorovic and everyone else who gets here should do. Now that's a question, not a question, we're gonna, I don't know, live wall, experts, bridge and not talk to all the others who are guilty of it. Come on, let's stop populism, let's work fair and let the professional people do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45808	Thank you. Replication response, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45809	Dear fellow Music, I have not heard a more populist speech than this one of yours. A man who has entered the Parliament twice thanks to the parties he now calls populist and who, based on that policy or the Most or the Living Wall, has entered the Croatian Parliament, so that he can speak here now, calls the party for populistism, because he always, when he enters the Parliament, has moved on to the ruling ones and is watching him get involved somewhere. Well, that's the height of pulsism, that's the height of hypocrisy and pulsism. You are part of the ruling majority, you have entered with your colleagues, you have not entered because you strive like Ivica Misic, but thanks to the Living Wall, because people vote for the Living Wall and so on based on the Bridge and now you call these people "Pulism". I can think of anything about Sinjci, Bunjac, or not. But you now attack people with whom you entered, not people, but their ideas, and you have entered the Croatian Parliament on the basis of this idea, it is the highlight of hypocrisy and I really cannot listen to it. So I completely lost my nerve because this is invisible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45810	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, although there is no reason to harm the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45811	All right. Mr. Grmoya, you have twice supported the same party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45812	My colleague Misic, you must first say which article is injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45813	In 238, you led twice the party you crossed and trusted. Because you didn't know, and that's why you fell out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45814	Comrade Misic, this is not a violation of the rules of procedure, don't be angry. I ask you not to do this and not to violate the rules that exist in the Parliament. What's next?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45815	Article 238. Comrade Misic, and when our President of the Parliament is here, whom you must always follow Gordan Jandrokovic realized that Karamarko is the past, you still wanted to argue. Follow him next time, so you still wanted to overstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45816	You're very funny, but you've broken your rules of procedure, and now I'm giving you a warning. This wasn't right. Now we move on, colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, do not forgive us we have another replica that is a respected colleague, Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45817	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased that you have already formed a particular team that will participate in the work of the commission and I appeal to everyone else to form their teams, but I would like these teams to be publicly announced and to know who the people on these teams are, and I would like to see that the work of these teams is transparently presented to the public during the commission's work. As for these things that other people from other clubs didn't get into the commission, it's really not good, it's too bad that I don't see any reason to stop it because this isn't about any muscle showing, this is about hopefully, about the desire to really explore something that hasn't been known so far. And it would certainly be much better explored if they were in the commission and people from other clubs and there was no reason to prevent it and therefore I think if it is possible that this could still be done and I ask that those who have launched the initiative to include the new amendment in the work of the commission and the other clubs of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45818	Thank you. Did you get that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45819	I agree with you. I'd be happy if you were at the head of this committee, there was talk of it as a possibility, but unfortunately these two parties have assessed that it might be too dangerous for someone to be president of a committee that wasn't part of these structures, I'm sorry. But I repeat again, we will publicly publish all our teams the meanings of the people who are members, who will work on this, and here I repeat your every advice, the information is welcome and I am making myself available because I think you can help in this case and you can be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45820	Now we move on to the debate of the Advocacy Club for Croatia and the esteemed colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45821	Honorable President, MPs and MPs. So, Mr. Bauk, the composition of this committee isn't the result of consulting all the clubs, it's the family party agreement between you and Mr. Bačić. You invited us a minute to 12 to tell us without asking us to even express our opinion whether we accept it or not. So on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, once again, I call on the applicants to complete the proposal in a way that is proportionate to the number of MPs involved in the investigation committee due to the political and social importance of the problem. Otherwise, we will hold the investigation committee as such to the family farce, an experimentally large coalition on the part of the game by Konzum over the party and two extras who have accepted the role of the statisticians. So, Mr. Bulj, you have dramatically warned us here three times that you cannot accept the composition of this committee, so if you cannot agree to the composition vote against. If you vote for it, you will accept the composition of this committee. So in the commission, what is imagined to be insignificant is the influence of those political factors that were never, in any way, by their public and political actions, the instrument of a political business octopus called Agrokor d.d. And what everyone has overlooked, therefore more than symbolism and first-class political cynicism, that the agreement between HDZ and SDP will be chaired by no less or less than the Minister of Milanovic's Kukuriku government who will remain remembered as the proponent of the infamous Lex Perkovic, whose daughter and case Agrokor was supposed to show its supremacy over the Croatian and European legal system and at the cost of embarrassing the Croatian state, and all for the protection of the executioner of Yugoslav national terror over the Croatian people. So the composition of this investigative committee that will explore, among other things, itself is a textbook example of multiple conflicts of interest. In this farce we do not want to participate, this farce is part of a wider trade for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. Gentlemen, I suggest that for outside and part-time members of the commission, Mr. Aleksic mentioned forensics, Mr. Sincic of the experts, so I suggest that you hire Mr. Todorovic, Perkovic and Mustac as future president will no doubt know how to find a legal solution for that as well. For all of these reasons, therefore, the Independent Club for Croatia will vote against the so-called Conzum of the Investigative Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45822	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure and eight replicas. So there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure first. A fellow coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45823	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Hasanbegovic, has repeatedly injured Article 238 but since I do not have time to describe all, I will concentrate on the one from the beginning of his presentation. Saying that the result of the Commission's composition of the SDP's family consultation has offended all representatives not only of the SDP but also of the other parties involved. Dear counterpart Hasanbegovic, the commission should have at least 50 members to have you represented in it in proportion to how large and significant your club is. And since it is your importance to be insignificant, we will also try to make it your influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45824	Comrade Grbin, you violated the Rules of Procedure because there was no violation of the Rules of Procedure by counterpart Hasanbegovic. And I would really appeal to all MPs and MPs right now if we weren't using a plate with a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's definitely happening here because the Rules of Procedure predicts that I have to give the word when someone raises a tile, it puts me in a very awkward situation but I'm going to start sharing notes because I don't have any other way, even if it's not enough, you know that well, but here I'm at least going to do it. So now we're going to the replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague, Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45825	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Hasanbegovic, you remember what happened last Friday when we were invited to consult like 5 to 12 or 12.05, to share those seats within the opposition, without a representative of the HSS at all, you came after us. So it's one breach of procedure, it's been 4.5 months, all summer to take an hour, to arrange a model, to make some kind of compromise. In that short time we were given, no compromise could be made, obviously it was the intention not to bring it in because this was all pre-planned and it was going to bring us before the final act. Here is the possibility, therefore, in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that all MPs attend the working bodies, we have found no ban that would prohibit other MPs who are not members of the investigative committee from attending meetings. Therefore, members of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, our club will come to these sessions, but will likely try to change the rules of procedure of the investigative committee immediately at the first session to ban such things. As for the president of the big clubs, I recommend that they take a picture of Stalin and put it in their office because the last democratic practices are somewhere on the level of Joseph Visarionovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45826	There's no response to the replica. So let's go to the other one. Dear colleague Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45827	Your Honor. My colleague Hasanbegovic, I cannot help but confirm that in many things you are right as many young colleagues. Why? Here is our colleague Jovanovic Zeljko sitting, silently looking at his cell phone, putting on glasses to better see and say, counterpart Jovanovic is the chairman of the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. And I happen to be a member of that council. And there's the vice president. But we do not meet, although it has repeatedly been fellow Jovanovic calling for us to come together as soon as possible and to start working. Wait till I'm done, then you will. [[Applause]] And what's this about? Kola Jovanovic called us all along that we will not form the team and he has no members and his group. Right? Then what's it for? It serves we have a council, we have no council, tuti-muti sits one. [[Adversity President: Col. Culej, colleague Culej.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45828	A colleague of Culej, a colleague of Hasanbegovic, debated rather than a colleague of Jovanovic. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45829	Article 238 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure, where my colleague Culej, as usual, missed the target and falsely accused me of the national council's inadequacy. He obviously didn't follow my frequent steps. I have to react this way because this is being followed by the public, so after Culei's exposure, I might conclude that the National Council did not make my mistake. And on the contrary, if someone warned that the National Council couldn't work because the ruling majority didn't secure the choice of outsiders, it was me. Besides, I'm asking you to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45830	Okay. The truth is not because of the ruling majority. My colleague Bacic told me that the ruling majority agreed on members and that certain difficulties still exist on the other side, but I would not now open that debate but would move on to the next line, which is a respected counterpart, Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45831	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I am truly saddened by the fact that there is no respect for the interest and the smaller clubs, but here is probably the point of relations between the majority and the talks and the agreements where there were clearly purely formal reasons why there was no involvement of these members, so here if there is a possibility that this correction is not a problem. I would like to point out that Agrokor as a parallel economic system, as a parallel political system, I can freely say one parallel pair of states in the Republic of Croatia was clearly reflected in this Committee. But Mr. Misic and the other roles of this committee should not be as we like to call it now popularly called forensics some kind of economics, etc. Because that is why we are not professional, but this commission should deal hard with the actions of the Government and the Government and their bodies. And in this direction we need to be principled and define the government's actions, all governments so far and its bodies in the development of Agrokor and to its culmination as it is now. So I draw attention in this direction and stress the role of this commission in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45832	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so we're going to fifth, or fourth, that's a respected colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45833	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasanbegovic, you say we're statisticians and you're the very witnesses here that you and your voice have held this K+ government that you mention. We're not statisticians because you know that Bozo Petrov first filed criminal charges against Todorovic, you know that I personally filed a report a long time ago against HANFA and the CNB, and you won't tell me how I'm going to vote and how I'm going to think. You didn't even tell me about the budget when it was, and I was in the ruling majority. I don't know how you voted and how you found yourself saving Minister Maric at the time if you had voted against, there wouldn't be this one as you say K+ Government. You're the one who gave and signed along with HNS, five, six, you signed right under Mr. Milorad Pupovac, requested the shift of God Petrov as President of the Parliament. You're one of the main pillars of today's K+ Government. I'm sorry, but we're extras, so you know how long it's been for the government that you've been in. You know why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45834	You mean replica, right? Or did you cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... The answer to the replica, it was a mistake, right? [[Intruder Hasanbegovic, not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45835	Yeah, that's right. So under the impression of Mr. Bulj's dramatic address from which it is still unclear whether it will be for or against, it would correct only one inaccuracy. So, in the signatures you mentioned, my signature was not under the signature of Mr. Milorad Pupovac but above the signature of Mr. Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45836	A fellow Bulj reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45837	You'd apologize. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, 238. He would apologize to counterpart Hasanbegovic for signing on top of Mr. Milorad Pupovac to replace Bozo Petrov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45838	Comrade Bulj, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I give you my warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45839	Thank you very much....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45840	The sixth replica, dear colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45841	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic, we were also thinking about whether you would be in the Committee, but as Agrokor was founded in '76, and not '41, then we thought about not being interested, so we didn't suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45842	Okay. And it's the last turn of the line for a esteemed fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45843	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I didn't know Milorad Pupovac had anything to do with the investigation committee. Namely, since apparently some colleagues don't know, I'm going to say that my club has shown no interest in participating in the Investigative Commission. First because we evaluate two things. That there won't be enough time for this investigation committee to do its job. And secondly, that this Commission of Investigation, as well as most clubs in this House and its representatives, has no idea that we are doing our job properly and that we are working in this direction so that clubs, MPs and the Parliament have a slightly better position in the political system and the decision-making system in this country, then this commission would make some sense. But since we're not trying to do this, but we're trying around the bone that's been thrown at us, where some are more skilled, and then it's going to look more skilled in public and some are less skilled, so it's going to look less skilled in public, but for anyone who knows anything about parliamentaryism and anyone who has anything to hold on to the representative body of the people, part of this debate is actually embarrassing. So it's a shame to hear those who even on such occasions take my name and name into their mouths. Whether it's below or above. As far as I'm concerned, it's above the level of what I can hear, and it's below the level and what I can participate in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45844	Thank you. We are finished with the replicas and now it is our turn to change the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and our esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45845	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, MPs. It's obvious that every party would want its representative in the Committee and I was right behind it and I have nothing against it. As I was a member of the Immunology Service Committee, there were 15 of us and no one bothered. I have to say right now, I'm not satisfied with the composition or the number. I told you about the number, and even by composition, because there really shouldn't be some people in there who acted as executive. I'm not questioning their competence because there's an economist and a doctor of the economy, etc. But I can't go over some of the things that individuals here, as usual, in situations like this, when something gets stuck up, they want to score a goal out of the 16-term without looking at whom they're going to stick their elbow into the ribs like they do today, Nikola Grmoy. Gentlemen, you've supported HDZ twice, you've been to K+ Government twice. But I'm glad you're on board, and I'm glad you're gonna be, that you don't have the same kind of luck as the others. But please don't insinuate. On the other hand, you questioned my name here. I want to say this here in front of the Croatian public. The process of nominating me into this commission passed regularly and honorably. From the smaller clubs and you were all there, I got support. Well, I understand this is a political stage for people to compete here, to get points, that I understand, because you want to earn something on the political market. Therefore, gentlemen, those who think that by my choice, if the Parliament so decides in this commission will shut my mouth. You're wrong and you'll find out. So I also answer to the other side, Mr Hasanbegovic, when a commission is appointed to change all the streets and squares in Croatia, I am not interested in it, but I will suggest you as president. And distinguished ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, so stop here with this circus, who's going to score some points, who won't. I'm a university professor of economics, finance, I guess I understand something about these problems in Agrokor. But let's stop collecting points like this, people watching this circus in Parliament, let's make this committee whatever Parliament decides, and I repeat, whoever thought they'd shut my mouth by choosing this commission in the months to come, you'll see it. My goal is to expose the background, this is a difficult case, to expose the backdrop of the Agrokor case, and especially those links between the corporation and politics, this roof capitalism that was created in Croatia. And that's why I'm calling, it's really true that there's only Mr. Grmoy and I are really out of opposition and I think we're going to make the biggest one there, let's just say that we're going to be a rock in a shoe. So let's stop it, it'll show what can be done and everyone's face and everyone's word in this investigation will show up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45846	Now we have six replicas and a re-injury of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague of the Grmoys.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45847	238, so I don't know why I was told this by my colleague Lovrinović, in no way did I in my debate or in the replicas trouble his choice in this Committee, but I told my colleagues from the Living Wall that they shouldn't be completely dissatisfied because they have their mayoral candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45848	A fellow Bolt, which was injured in, which was injured in the Rules of Procedure, in what way?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45849	And the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the carrying out of falsehood.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45850	Look here, this is the second time I'm giving you a warning now, and next time I'm going to tell you because I'm not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, and knowingly and deliberately use the Rules of Procedure's breach institute to speak, you have a replica, you've also reported for the replica. And you'll get a replica, but there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure here. ... Wait a minute, I beg you like this, I will really, I have no other way, from now on I will give, when the Rules of Procedure is injured I will give a warning, if someone after that again, then I will reach for Article 240, where I will give the notice by taking away the words, if the MP continues to act contrary to Article 238 of this Rules of Procedure, which is why he has already been warned. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm sorry, you can comment on that in the replica, you've reached out to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Pernar, you are first in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45851	Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen. I'm watching this circus, this farce and the behavior of representatives in the Croatian Parliament reminds me of the behaviour of the Serbian people in the '90s. For years, the Serbian people supported Slobodan Milosevic's policy and held the ladder for him, and then when that policy brought the Serbian people to ruin, then they all said together we will now judge you, they went out to the streets, deported him to The Hague, and he died there in prison. The reason why Ivica Todorovic puts herself on a pillar of shame is because he tripped and fell. If by any chance he continued, it means that he did not now, at this moment in the situation that Agrokor ended up almost in bankruptcy, you would still hold the ladder to him and feast with him, honor, share positions. They defended Todorovic and supported representatives of both HDZ and SDP. And only this commission, made up of 80% of the members of the two parties, is pointless and it's a farce. Well, I remember when a Greek colleague spoke from the SDP that we shouldn't talk about the fact that the situation in Agrokor is bad. In other words, we should cover up the situation, which is what the Greek fellow wanted to say, it must not be talked about. The same messages were sent from HDZ. And now I'm saying, these parties are leading this circus and this farce. And one of the few, I dare say in fact, and the only honest opposition party living the wall of that member in this committee is gone. Why? Because we're the only ones who ask awkward questions and because our questions bother you. That's the essence of the whole story, ladies and gentlemen. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45852	A fellow Greek, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's for sure. So please don't abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45853	But bringing out lies is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45854	It's very difficult to assess what's true and what's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45855	Listen to the show and you'll see what I've been saying, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45856	There was no damage to the Rules of Procedure from a fellow Greek. We're moving on to another replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45857	Your Honor. First, I will protest sharply for this second warning you gave me because my colleague Lovrinovic said that I'm using inappropriate ways here, that I'm hitting people in the ribs with some kind of low blow, and I didn't even mention a man in any negative context, and that's an insult to the article 238 by other MPs. So he called me for a low blow even though I didn't trouble him at all in my debate. You gave me a warning, that's number one. Number two, colleague Lovrinović, we have shown how to defend and principles, ideas, ideals twice. We are the ones who launched the Agrokor case, God Petrov by opening the topic by raising a criminal application, I was the first to present the information in the Croatian Parliament which is now being presented by some portals about how the tax administration or tax oversight was not in Agrokor d.d.. As early as April, it's been many months since that moment, and now there's an ex-post mind coming up and talking about how someone's gonna do something and how someone's a real opposition. The only ones who've been dealing with this topic, the only ones who've opened this topic, the only ones who've started to disintegrate this topic, are us, or that's the Bridge. And I didn't mention you in any negative context in my debate. I regretted that the other clubs weren't included, but I told my colleagues from the Living Wall that they shouldn't be so unhappy because they have a man who entered their list and who was their candidate for mayor. If it's any insult, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45858	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. They fall a lot of hard words not only to you but also to other MPs. If I were to use the rules of procedure all the time then almost every debate would have the opportunity to do so, so please don't be so sensitive because this is a debate in the Parliament, you hear and a sharp word is one of the levels at which we operate. Here's your colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45859	Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Unlike you, academic status does not allow me to speak about such a language and do not collect points in such a way and that is why I will not say so. I know you well if anyone knows you I know you in this hall, but you see I've never said anything wrong and I won't speak ill of you. It is true that Agent Petrov filed criminal charges, everything is true, but you were gentlemen in that government for seven months, so what were you waiting for in the end? You had a minister of police, a minister of justice, a minister of economy, twice led that government, so I would take real steps in the meantime. And I think that in front of this committee and some of your members, we're going to have whatever to say from those nightly meetings with the talks, and I think it's going to make a huge contribution to our commission where you're sitting. So let's stop, forgive this expression, bring each other down because here is our big task to expose the background of this whole case. And I don't get it, and you want it, and then all of a sudden, you're hanging around, you're pinning everyone you catch up with. We don't need that, citizens expect us to solve this problem. And that's why I don't intend to deal with getting this or what's in the past, like this, but when you pulled me by the tongue, you remember when I was with you, I was the only one against the government of Prime Minister Oreshkovic that you actually brought in. That's the problem, you brought him in, and then you supported him. But I congratulate you on what you want to cooperate on this issue and I am willing to cooperate with you and you will see that we will cooperate well, but do not serve...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45860	Comrade Grmoy, you want to be last at all costs. ... You're right, but I'm warning you, if I estimate that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been misused, I'm going to have to tell you the measure of dissuasion of the right of speech on this point. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45861	Honorable President, Article 238 demeaning MPs. I now, if you listened well to me, apologized to my colleague Lovrinović if he misunderstood me, and he said again in the replica that I was planting, pricking and using a little... methods. In which I ask you to let me do it, I accept you take away my speech, but let my colleague Lovrinović explain to me how I offended him. Otherwise, it sets me up and means President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45862	Comrade Grmoy, okay, I'm giving you a real measure of now a reminder by taking away the word. I understand that you are hurt because of the words spoken by your colleague Lovrinović, it is your right to be hurt. However, there are clear rules of play in this House that neither you nor I have made but are simply like that and my colleague Lovrinović has not said anything that pops up from what is said daily in this House, and so are you. And what did you apologize for? The citizens will assess whether he is right or you are right, whether he is rude or you are rude, it will be assessed by the citizens. There is no procedure here that will allow us all to be finally satisfied. I'm sorry, but here's what I'm saying. A fellow Bull's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45863	Dear colleague Lovrinović. Your knowledge, expertise and ability are unquestionable, that's your profession. However, the fact that people choose MPs and the fact is that people with their abilities, regardless of the academic community and the political elite, have done their job so far, would not have been in Parliament. They didn't, they didn't do their job, and I don't see anywhere that anyone disrespected you or disrespected you, but it's also a fact, I personally raised up, but experts helped me which I consider competent and against the CNB's criminal charges. I took it personally seven, eight months ago for criminal charges. But I'm also glad, yeah, we've been in a position twice, no matter what I didn't vote for the budget, less importantly, but the fact that you're in position right now, the fact is that your vice president is a secretary at the Justice Department and we're going to help him with whatever it takes to solve the situation. The fact is that your representative who entered from the living wall list... The only option supports power and that it is indeed in agreement that you have agreed as a list to have one part in power, the other in opposition. And that's what the political dictionary said. You're in power right now, and you're in front of the opposition at the Committee. It's political, and your expertise, competence is unquestionable. You've received a certain number of votes. I have 17 thousand votes to get my citizens and of course we will all in this Parliament fight to make people competent in this commission in and to find a solution. No matter what's unfair to the people you're with or you're with or you're in, they haven't been consulted. And now they're turning their backs on these people, but the fact is that you're in power now. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45864	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45865	Dear fellow Bull, I won't go in, I said in further detail and light this fire because it's not necessary. I'm saying here is about forming a commission and getting to the truth about it. You've brought up a few secrets about the party, and I have no intention of pollemizing here, it's not exactly what you said. The party Changed Croatia is an opposition party and it is quite clear. It's your right to speak and therefore to insinuate but I won't look back on it. I won't be aware of this debate, let's say, on the duel between the party Let's change Croatia and MOST, but the fact that you brother, had time, you could have done a lot of things. But I know your capacities, and I don't want to talk about it. I won't talk about it any further. So, please. But...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45866	Kola Lovrinović said "I know your capacities", he thought you had great capacities. I don't know why you're offended. Why were you offended? He commended you. [[Invadica Lovrinović: Please.]] Comrade Lovrinović, please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45867	Please, please. Mr. President, you didn't have to translate, people figured it out. I'm gonna end up with this. Let's let the people go, I don't want to be involved in this circus anymore because it's obviously the only thing that some people serve as a public base to get points. I want this commission if this House does indeed vote, and the citizens who look at us, they know each and every one of us, and eventually they'll know what the contribution here was. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45868	A fellow Bull. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45869	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, 238. And mostly the President of the Parliament who comments on my not a single word here why I hurt, how do you know that I hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45870	.../Intruder President: So you picked up the tablet at that moment./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45871	I was given 11,000 votes by people, voters to represent here as well as colleagues to Lovrinovic, I don't know how much they gave, let him say publicly. And you colleagues to Lovrinovic, you are not the ones who are going to evaluate what capacity they are here, but the fact is that you are in power. Jure Martinovic, your vice-president of the party is now a secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Misic is the most loyal member of the ruling coalition, follow as a vote and who he voted for. And you're just the person who's professional and political. A representative of the opposition in the commission and is in power and is holding this K+ to the Maric scale government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45872	All right, I'm asking you to do it, I'm appealing to you. Let's not cause any damage to the Rules of Procedure for no reason, because I really...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45873	You're insulting me, you're commenting on me, you didn't say anything before, you!...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45874	Why are you leaving now, Comrade Bull? My friend Bulj, I didn't mean to offend you with anything. All right, we'll continue with the next line. It's a esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45875	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Representative Lovrinović, given that I also took part in consultations on the election of members in the Committee, the truth is, I must say the next thing. And that is that the election of members of the Committee was neither regular nor honorable. In fact, on Friday morning, the media published a set of members of the Committee and the consultations began at half past 12, so two and a half hours before the consultations even started, the media announced the composition of the Commission. This clearly shows that some clubs were brought to a living wall, well, a lapus. Before the act is done, let's say. And secondly, only my personal intervention was invited representatives from the Independent Club for Croatia. So it was not regular and honorable, and this part of which is being told by MP Lovrinović that MOST participated in that government which, therefore, knew what was going on in Konzum, is also true because in 2016 Agrokor achieved the greatest losses and that was the time when MOST was in power and had, be careful now, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Police and President of the Parliament, and therefore, they had in their hand absolutely all the tools that could find out what the situation in Agrokor was and take the appropriate measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45876	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45877	Dear Comrade Bunjac, I am not, not to be confused, I am not talking about the regularity of the entire commission's election. Maybe you didn't listen to me very well. I was talking about my candidacy. So let's get this thing straight and it's completely regular and clean. But I'm glad you agreed with me, about this earlier, that I ordered the Bridge. You can't, at the end of the day, when the government, the Parliament, said that for 10 years, no one was from the IRS in Agrokor. How come you're telling the nation the last day? You should have done that before, gentlemen, when you were part of the government. And today, you attack and sinuate lies and talk about my stranger and that's not true. But people in this country listen to a lot of things, and citizens know what I'm saying. You put me here and there to be this minister or that minister. I stayed where I am. In defense of interest, it means national interests and for a small man not to be used by those often used to say so in populist statements. So the key thing here is to expose everything, expose all links, politics with Agrokora, because financial indicators won't just be enough for us, and that's not the task, but to discover the links of politics and anyone who participated and thus brought this concert and this country into these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45878	Next replica, respected counterpart Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45879	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, of course I support your membership in the investigation committee and I believe you will carry out this professionally and responsibly. You said in your statement that this is a political game where everyone wants to score a goal. But the fact is, we lost this game. If Croatia, all the governments had scored the auto goal, next to or past the Living Wall or past the Sports Dictionary, we had scored an auto goal, embarrassed Croatia, and the question was which entrepreneur, investor, outside Croatia would want to come to Croatia with their investment, with its capital, if the state allowed, and the fact is that it has allowed, since 2010, to fake financial reports and that is one big shame. And the general trust of the citizens to whom you call is, in the system, in the state is so low that they do not believe, nor that after this commission, and their conclusions will change something important. Because if the state really wanted to do something right here, today someone would be in prison after criminal charges. Is anyone in jail? No, but he still has the ability to manipulate the papers and hide the report. It's obvious that it's in someone's best interest not to investigate anything and find it. Because that any craftsman from Croatia, any farmer... Insecure or cheated on your financial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not for 14 billion, but for 14 kuna, he'd already be in jail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45880	Replication response, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45881	Dear colleague Vlaovic. I agree with you, I don't expect from the results of this investigation, the investigative commission that we will find out everything we expect, but it will be interesting to see who stands for who, who's on whose side. Are we gonna get all the papers we're looking for? But, gentlemen, I'm asking here today to support this investigative committee, when it is seated, to be a live program and to be transferred to HRT 4. And not like when we had an Immunological Institute, there were terrible things heard. And then the Dnevnik, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, comes out only what answers there to the editor or who's in power. Please support me in this, because it only makes sense, that in front of the cameras everyone talks. And Mr. Ivica Todorovic and former ministers. Both these and those Prime Ministers. And we'll call them all. Let it be a direct transmission, so let's see what people say, how they respond, and please support me in that, because otherwise, if it isn't, the public will get on the hood what someone thinks they should get. And then that's not the task of this expert commission. So, thank you for supporting me here, and you weren't there that day at the vote, and that's more important to me, and that's what makes me happy, but believe me, I repeat, I don't know which time, those who thought they were going to shut my mouth, they're just gonna see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45882	Thank you. Before the last replica, just a notice that the 7th session of the Defence Committee, scheduled today at 11 o'clock, is held immediately after the vote is completed. Who should the members of the Defence Committee be informed about it. The last replica of the esteemed colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45883	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We live in a parliamentary democracy, meaning in a democracy in which the government, the government, corresponds to Parliament, Parliament. So it's natural, logical, by the constitution legally justified that we have an investigative commission. And that's good, that's natural, that's logical. However, it is expected that people who will... I'm serious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that we will use this opportunity, with this investigative commission, to fight the estradisation. That there is no sharing of confidential information and to arrange, to take advantage of this opportunity, to edit the full efficiency of the work of the Croatian Parliament and the investigative committees in the future. To get for these people and equipment, to approve the funds, to know how we're going to deal with the work of some investigative committees in the future. So let us take this opportunity to improve the work of the Parliament, the investigative committees and at all Croatian policies, so that there is no estradisation in the first plan, but the seriousness and responsibility of those of our colleagues in the Parliament, who will be in this investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45884	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45885	Dear counterpart Kovac, I fully agree with you, that we should not estradize these things, but the fact that society is at that level and in such problems, circumstances and no wonder that it is so. I've already said many times, this isn't an independent council. This is a party council, here people don't respond to the citizens who chose them, because otherwise they would behave differently and vote. I want it and I show it and I want to be only responsible to the voters, the citizens who chose me here. But I repeat, estradisation, if by estradization you mean direct transmission on television, and I assume you don't think it's an estradisation because it's necessary. I ask you, President of the Parliament, and all of you MPs and MPs, to ensure direct transmission on television, so that the citizens watch the faces of these people as they look, as they will speak. Because this is how they're going to stay in a room where people don't see what they're asking, what are the questions, how will those who are invited answer? This is, I said about three, four weeks ago, that Agrokor is beside these financial difficulties that this is Croatia's biggest security problem in 2007, that there are great correlations, a great correlation between Agrokor and the emigration from Slavonia and Baranja. And a whole series of things. I asked some questions to the security intelligence agency, they didn't answer. So it'll be interesting in this investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45886	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. This time, my colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45887	Thank you, President of the Parliament. A colleague, Miro Kovac, injured Article 44. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45888	.../Invader President: Excuse my colleague Sincic, you did not answer in time because I thought you were reporting for the debate of colleagues Lovrinović, i.e. the reply to the replica./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45889	I was looking for an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45890	No, no, no. You have no right. I'm sorry. This concludes the debate and we're going to vote now. I am voting on Amendment No. 1. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has received a sufficient number of votes, so 117 was for, 2 abstentions and 8 against, and we adopted it. Now I'm putting the amendments to the vote second. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 114 for, 3 abstentions and 10 against the amendment, and it becomes an integral part of the proposal for a decision. And now we're going to vote on the establishment of an investigative commission. Article 6 The law on investigative committees is prescribed that a proposal for the establishment of the Research Commission should be decided by a majority of the votes of all MPs, so there must be 76 votes. And I am voting on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the circumstances of Agrokor's business concert, its position on the market today, the emergence of its business problems, and in particular its debts to suppliers, and other creditors. The roles of regulators in markets related to Agrokor's business activities and circumstances leading to the Government's activities towards Agrokor, or a proposal for possible solutions to the situation in which Agrokor was found with the amendments adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 113 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 11 votes against a decision to set up an investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45891	This is: - The half-year reports on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and European structural instruments for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016 are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 14th session held on 24 October 2014. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the EU Committee on Regional Development and Fund. You received his report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund. Velimir Žunc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45892	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. Before you, there is a proposal for a half-yearly report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and European structural instruments for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016. Based on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, adopted at the 14th session held on 24.6.4. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is required to hold regular 6-month reports on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European structural instruments. 5 half-yearly reports, the use of 5 access aid programmes and European structural instruments, include key information on the implementation of the 1st, 2nd, 5th IPA components, as well as operational transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and development of human potentials. These operational programmes for fisheries, for the financial period 2007-2013, including financial indicators of performance, absorption, individual components or operational programme. Starting in 2015, the reports provide an overview of the financial indicators of utilisation and the descriptive review of the state of implementation, the use of European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014-2020, through the presentation of operational programmes and this operational programme of concreteity and cohesion, operational programme of effective human potential, rural development programmes and operational programme for maritime and fisheries. Since there are 5 half-years of reports in the materials, and since for several reasons the cumulative sums are important to us, here in this explanation I will refer only to the situation at the end of the last reporting period which ended on 30.6.years. Therefore, from the start of the implementation until the end of the last reporting period, up to 30.6.6.years under the pre-accession programme of EU assistance and European structural instruments during the financial period 2007-2013, from the total amount allocated to a billion and 278.60m euros, a billion and 560.45m euros were agreed, representing 122.04% of the total allocated amounts. It paid 830.98m euros, representing 64.99% of the total amount allocated. From the start of the implementation until the end of the reporting period, therefore, by 30 June 2016, within the framework of the programme and the use of European Structural and Investment Funds, during the financial period 2014-2020 of the total amount allocated to EUR 10 billion 742.12 million, 727.90 million was agreed, so 6.78% of the total amount allocated, and 175 million euros were paid, representing 1.64% of the total allocated amount. Of course, in all half-yearly reports there are also... the information to be provided through all components and operational programmes, both for pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European structural instruments from the financial period 2011-2013 and for the European Structural Investment Funds for the financial period 2014-2020, for each reporting period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there is also data on identified irregularities and on the activities undertaken in relation to them. The answer to the question why you have five half-year reports on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European structural instruments to date is the fact that during the work on the reports, therefore twice during the course of the work on the reports, the Croatian Parliament has been disbanded and adopted in the course of regular and temporary elections, and therefore the reports have to be re-scheduled to the full adoption procedure. So far, they have been specifically referred to the procedure three times. In April 2015, the report for the first half of 2014 was held at expert working group meetings and economic coordination, after which it was also removed from the government's adoption procedure. The second time was in September 2015 when reports for the first and second half of 2014, so the government adopted them, the government adopted them on 24 September 2015 and submitted them to the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, they were not included in the agenda of the session before the release, which was held on 25 September 2015. The third time, therefore, was in June 2016 when reports for the first and second half of 2014 were sent to the Section for Economy Coordination, on which the agenda was so in June 2016, but were also removed from the section's working group's agenda, so that in July 2016, the Croatian Parliament was disbanded again. Meanwhile, in late 2016 and early 2017, half-year reports were prepared for the first and second half of 2015 and a report for the first half of 2016, so you have here today five half-year reports for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016. Here's so much in this opening statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45893	Thank you very much. Believe it or not, but you have two replicas. She is one of Domagoj Mikulić's respected representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45894	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State Zunac with his associates, dear colleagues. Given that the political circumstances did not allow us to discuss reports on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes and structural instruments, I would refer more to this period from 2014 to 2020, and what I would like to point out is that the shift has, that they are visible and that for the first time, the Republic of Croatia has become a net recipient of European funds. I would also like to commend the government's efforts to increase the contracted funds, which are 22.17% in June 2016, where the percentage of paid funds was increased from 1.64% in June to 6.42% in June, and that tenders for applicants were opened from all operational programmes. This government and this ministry definitely accelerated in the fifth gear, but since we are already halfway through this financial period, I think it would be a good idea to get into the seventh gear in order to speed up the system and all the procedures needed. I would particularly support the project "Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem", which is a total of 2.5 billion euros in available European funds, contributes to the growth and development of five Slavonian counties. The projects have, the funds are important for development, but there is one problem, and I believe that you have noticed it too, and that is the need for additional staffing to make this whole process of using European funds even more effective in this coming period, since let's say a little bit of a cough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45895	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45896	Thank you very much. I am interested in the operational transport programme as far as the EU funds have come, and I will mention to you exactly which road is already concerned, which means she has a feasibility study. It's a Dicmo bypass or a fast road towards the Cetin end from Križica to Kukuzovac. What's going on with that? Do you have any information, because yet the amount Croatia is paying to join 500m euros, so I am interested in this ticket and the total amount of funds it is in 2016. ... The second half, the first half of how much the funds were drawn from the operational programmes totaled in this collection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it is still a huge amount that Croatia pays in membership, which is 500m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45897	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be addressed by representative Ivana Lesandric Ninčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45898	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think it's still a little too late for you to go through your whole prepared exposure, because there's still too much statistics here, numbers, comparisons, tables, the program measures all of this in this 611-page report. Well, then I'm just gonna cut this whole exposure short, so I'm actually just going to read the questions I'm looking for answers, so I'd like you to answer me here today. And if you're simply not familiar with all the answers to the questions you're asking, you can send them to me in writing. So here I am actually interested in how much and at what exact statement of expenditure on EU funds is issued on the basis of the projects implemented for the period 2014 to 2020? Is it true that for R & D investments owned by public institutions from 2014 to 2020, no euro was actually agreed upon? Thirdly, is it true that there has been a re-hazarded accreditation for the management of the ESF due to a failure to meet the ARPA findings. Fourth, how much is it estimated that we're going to lose funds next year because of poor absorption? Furthermore, on the subject of the operational programme for operational transport, I am interested in, since we are witnesses, that the Ciovski Bridge does not go with the desired dynamics, and I would say, almost no dynamics. How much exactly will be the amount of phased projects from disease transport in 2014-2020, given the fact that only following reviews of what public procurement, what realised costs from the IP traffic, how much is the percentage we expect to withdraw and how large acquisitions were controlled at, say, Dubrovnik airport, and Okucani and Novska and Long Village, the Križevci, when we still did not have an ex-ante control unit for public procurement at the time they were released. Here's the answer to these questions. And as far as the reports are concerned, it is detailed, however, I cannot say that I am satisfied, especially when it comes to EU funds that are available to us because we can and must do better on this subject and hopefully in the future we will talk as much about implemented and not agreed funds and that this will be exactly the main point of this report, which is what we have actually spent and not only agreed on. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45899	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, should speak to the esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And the next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is Commissioner Branko Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45900	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This half-year report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European structural instruments for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016 The HDZ Club will support it. As we have already heard, according to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 24 October 2014. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit half-yearly reports on the use of pre-accession programmes to the Croatian Parliament, and therefore we have five half-yearly reports, however, the purpose of reporting and discussing this topic is precisely to find new solutions, remove obstacles, be it legal, human or financial to increase and be as effective as possible in withdrawing these funds. It has thus been found that certain shortcomings and personnel in the withdrawal are the same. For this reason, a recent decision has been taken and a tender for new employment on the use of European funds and also the need to retain personnel who very often leave the system after acquired knowledge and necessary education. It is good to say at the outset that 22% more funds were agreed than was allocated from the start of the implementation until the end of the last reporting period under the 2007-2013 programme, although only 65% of the funds were paid. In the same period, only 6.78% of the funds were agreed in the financial period from 2014.2020. In 2014, the year was the year in which all programming activities took place, negotiating the necessary documents as a prerequisite for the use of funds from European funds. What saddens me and we still feel that in 2014, when a number of important objects were to be contracted and built in our settlements and recognized the need for example. building nursing homes, firehouses, emergency homes, kindergartens and so forth, something like that wasn't negotiated. That's only possible in those settlements below 5,000 inhabitants. So I am convinced that this ministry and this government have already recognised this need and that, in the next period of 2018, when the negotiation and discussion on this topic is taking place, it will be possible to build precisely these projects from European funds. In the period from 1 January to 30 June 2014, 4.3 times more funds were agreed than in the previous reporting period and was most agreed by the operational programme for environmental protection over 110m euros. In the next period, fewer funds were agreed, but payments towards end-users amounted to over 87m euros. And that's where we record the weak amounts of contracts and payments right under the operational transport programme. All 3.8% of total allocations. In the period from January 1st to June 30th, 456m euros were agreed, a total of 111% and of course we are happy. And right now, traffic records high amounts of contracts and payment growth, given that nearly 147% of total allocations were agreed during that reporting period, while e.g. In this period, regional competitiveness has all agreed 2% of the total allocations. In the period from 1 July to 31 December 2015, at least the agreed funds were less than 100m euros, but payments to end-users were the highest and amounting to 127.78m euros. In the last period for which we have a report from 1 January to 30 June 2016, 27.46m euros were agreed and nearly 115m euros were paid. However, overall agreed from the beginning until 30 June... 22%, which we can be pleased with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This 2017 should be a key year and we expect significant progress in this year. We can commend all the activities of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, here yesterday we also had a debate on our parliamentary benches Strategy for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia for the period until the end of 2020. In these reports it has been noted that we have a great lack of quality personnel precisely in the 2017 reception plan, the largest number of new jobs should be obtained precisely by the Ministry of Regional Development and the eu funds and a tender for as many as 66 new jobs has been launched these days. We expect all of this to result in an even better and better withdrawal of European funds in the coming period, and these reports will support the HDZ club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45901	Thank you very much. We will now move to individual debates and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45902	Thank you very much. Good-bye to the late this time of year by the proposing representatives. Really nice weather and indeed interested audiences will have what to hear if no one can carry this alive so that you know your efforts that you wanted to bring out here and yours I saw those praises of all the civilians in Croatia, even reduced 56 thousand unemployed who unfortunately went to Germany, we'll see how much in Ireland, we'll check it out. But he is interested in a few questions regardless of what will remain in these four walls because the President of the Parliament has protected us so much this Parliament that in 22.05 minutes we are discussing this very important topic, these are the operational programmes of the Eu Funds. But I'm interested in the key question I saw here's a colleague before me on behalf of the club was talking about really great successes in the scheduled competitions, arranged deals, but I'm interested in information that doesn't come out in public exactly how much we've withdrawn funds for eu projects, implemented projects I'm sorry, right? If anyone has that information exactly that we know here I say, I repeat that half 500 million euros seems to me to pay half a billion euros of membership fees in the EU so that we don't deceive that public with information at this time but here... the accident doesn't listen to the public, perhaps many after these released praises and smile. They would think they were talking about some country, Alice called Alice in a wonder country, but the fact that these fairy tales we've been listening to for years are simply whether these parameters, again, are not competitions, not agreed operational programmes and projects, but exactly how much money has come to Croatia in the Croatian budget of this great EU, this wonderful Brussels that will preserve our youth here, will open jobs, which will preserve national integrity, the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, which will protect the safety and stability of Croatia as much of that money has come to the Republic of Croatia as it has so far. And tell me exactly how much more traffic there is to me this very interesting subject, give me all the roads they've invested in so far, they're the most important thing to me. And the Slavonia project let God do it, God forbid, but I'm afraid it's also fog, come on, Lady Sinjska we'll pray it so is our miracle protector, but the deception of a friend is huge is the fact that we give huge money a year, and that our young people are leaving, that the effects of the implementation of these pro-operative programs in Croatia are catastrophic. I can list in my end these effects, I can list all these projects that have been promised from eu projects, except membership fees are very small shifts, and this is visible in demographics, and mainly in Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Lici, Gorski kotar, Ravni kotari, it is unfortunately all devastationed. Well, thank you very much, if you can answer these two questions, the first thing I've asked you in the replica and this right now in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45903	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Sanja Putice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45904	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Bulj. You are asking a question that seems too general to me and we cannot discuss withdrawing funds from EU funds at such a level. We can discuss what I believe to tell you from the Ministry of State Secretary at the level of individual projects, at the level of their absorption, possible allocations of these funds in the projects. However, what I would like to say from the perspective of my end and in general for the Republic of Croatia, that the funds withdrawn only for the huge and largest investment of Dubrovnik Airport, the signed project of the Pelješka Mosta and yesterday, Minister Žalac, in Dubrovnik, signed a contract with the city of Dubrovnik for withdrawn funds from EU cultural heritage funds at 31 million kuna levels, which confirms that both funds and the EU can be taken into account for Croatian culture, Croatian heritage, Croatian identity. As far as the Pelješko Bridge is concerned, it is not a project of Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it is a project of the whole of Croatia, and we started to call this bridge Croatian, not Pelješki bridge. Therefore, I think that the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, this government of the Republic of Croatia has indeed made huge efforts. In addition, we have a promise from Minister Žalac that those investments that we are missing so far in EU funds and funding programmes such as education that are very important for our children and the entire education system will try to be included in the following programmes, and I believe that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45905	Thank you. The replica will be answered by the distinguished representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45906	Thank you very much. My colleagues indeed, it was not in general but it was a clear question of how much funding is in the Republic of Croatia so far, meaning how much, we have attracted these funds that now in Croatia means invested in programmes and projects, so far, not contracts, competitions and promises from ministers, ministers, but how much we are so far because of the huge money. The Peljeski bridge, somewhere around 2.3 billion kuna, I don't know, is really national, national, very important to connect southern Croatia and we need to insist on that. But the fact is 500 million euros a year, we could've built it a long time ago with this membership fee. I'm interested, no one is, why no one gives that information as much as the funds in Croatia have been invested in projects so far. Why is it a general question and you can't, you're so high you can't talk to us lower down from that level. It's just information, I'm not looking for anything else. In general, how much money from the EU has been invested in projects so far? No contests, no contracts, no ministers' promises, I don't see any problem. As for schools, there have been too many empty since we entered, more and more since we joined the EU. Here I could only list you in the Cetina region more and more empty villages and schools. I'm glad Dubrovnik is like that and I'd really like it to be in Lika and Gorski kotar and in Dalmatia Zagora and in Ravni kotars, I'd like it to be like that, but it's not like that, it's a fact. And it wasn't a question at all, or at all, as you said, it wasn't precise, quite precise, half a billion kuna we pay out of our budget yearly, the bristles who whine about their friends, who declare our seas a passage to another country and then we agree to join the EU. Ask your president he was good with Jadranka Kosor, how he handled it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45907	The next individual debate was supposed to be of respect to Domagoj Hajdukovic, but he's not here, so he loses his right to speak. And now, I believe your questions that you have asked will be answered by Honorable Secretary of State Velimir Žunac. Let's just calm down so the secretary of state can answer the questions you asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45908	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's my thanks for all the questions you've asked. So on these specific questions which the honourable representative has asked, so at this point I can't bring them out, because, therefore, today these reports, which are in some way history, because it's about 2014, 2015 and the first half of 2016, but we will deliver them all to you in writing. As for the amounts themselves, i.e. percentages, of course no one can be satisfied with these figures, these amounts, but what is therefore in the last eight months, so it is indeed seen to express progress at the time of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's government. So what's crucial, so it's important to increase the absorption that, you heard from 6.78 so from 30.06.2017 to 22.17% in terms of the contracted funds. Then the same thing with the funds paid last year with 30 June is 1.64%, now it's 6.42%. And what is crucial, therefore, was also the recommendation of the European Commission, therefore visiting the Republic of Croatia, so obviously we lack these administrative capacities or quality human potentials, so people who will work on these public calls, on these implementations, on these projects, that is, withdrawing funds, as you said. So here we have heard about the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, and we have just completed the competitions, and we expect more than 60 civil servants to be employed, we hope that this will be over in these summer months, and that this will also significantly increase opportunities, therefore better work on jobs related to European funds. When you ask the question exactly how much we have withdrawn from the EU, I can therefore tell you the specific data that are so June of this year, it means as far as the financial period 2007-2013 is concerned. and so these programmes, pre-accession EU assistance programmes as well as structural instruments, so we withdrew, i.e. total paid towards end-users, that was the most accurate formulation, so a billion and 115 million euros. As regards the financial period 2014/20. So these are ESI funds, so we withdrew, or was paid directly to end-users in the Republic of Croatia over 686 million euros. Thus, in the last 8 months there has been a really great progress, you can see it every day, different contracts are signed with Croatian hospitals, for different roads, for different bridges, for different infrastructure projects. There are cultural heritage projects, natural heritage projects, projects related to the economy, i.e. incubators. And now that I don't list everything in particular, so the projects, there are really lots and there's really this progress, especially in this 2017. I believe that by the end of 2017 your amount will be much, much larger. And what is crucial is by increasing capacity, by increasing the number of people who will work on it professionally and in quality, will certainly create an assumption of even more quality absorption and even more high-quality figures and percentages that we all hope for. And that as much as possible means taking advantage of the European funds that are within our grasp.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45909	Thank you very much. Obviously, they're not happy with your answers because we have two replicas. One of the distinguished representatives is Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45910	I'm sorry, I don't want to keep you here, but I'm really interested in the answer to the question I have. You mentioned incubators, so I'm interested, since we've already had tenders, we're going to have to finance entrepreneurial support institutions, and since we know how badly we're actually standing with their purpose on the ground, then you have to plan some measures or ways in which we're actually going to incubate entrepreneurs, the centres lead to what's really their purpose, and that we don't have employees in them anymore who have never had a donation with the real sector, so that they're just trying to raise awareness of entrepreneurship and not control at all, but to encourage entrepreneurial infrastructure. And how in general, do you have information about how you are currently standing with an entrepreneurial support institution, given that the single registry is entrepreneurial support institutions, and the PPP Act itself is actually very sharp and allows them various, so you could say freely that this particular problem of entrepreneurial support institutions is going to be a big problem for us, if we don't already stop it, we don't go to solve it, or to bring it for their purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45911	The Republic also has a distinguished representative, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45912	Here, in part, I have responded in part after years, but if you or the public haven't heard this information as far as we've meant, withdrawing funds for EU projects, so since this isn't done anywhere, this can't be looked at at at this time, nor can it be transmitted by HTV or by the President of the Parliament or by the Presidency. This very important topic, especially for people who expect a lot of promises. Here's a colleague of Putica's said that a number of operational programs are about to be signed, many have been rejected. So if you can answer my questions in writing and me. I'd like to... published in the public what no one knows and perhaps because of this hour, this debate on this very important topic of operational programmes means EU projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45913	Thank you very much. Will you respond to the replicas?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45914	Although I've given them these numbers and we'll deliver them in writing, it's clear that no one has any dilemmas about them. So that's all verifiable data and we'll deliver it. As far as your question is concerned, distinguished MPs, what I know, therefore, was that there were 48 applications for a passenger incubator contest. So, that in the 1st round they were chosen, 22 of them, and, therefore, because of the realisation of the funds, therefore, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, it will eventually turn out that all 48 who have, therefore, satisfied the minimum number of points will be financed by European funds. In particular, we are talking about the OPC programme and there will be problems of course for a moment, but I believe it will be much more serious to approach this topic, although it is much more in the domain I would say to the power of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts than the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. It is our job to create assumptions that as much resources as possible is being withdrawn, or absorbed, and on the other hand, so this part of the enterprise, that is, is economical, to the Ministry of Economy, but I believe that this problem will also be solved to the satisfaction of all those who will work on these political incubators. I say it's done by 48 of them in the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45915	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Velimir Zhunca. And that concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45916	For the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016, half-year reports on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and European structural instruments shall be submitted to the Commission. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘The half-yearly reports on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and European structural instruments for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016 shall be adopted.’ I find that most of the vote is 108 for, 12 abstentions, 14 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45917	We now move to the following point: - Report on the implementation of the annual implementing law of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 The Report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 33. The law on official statistics. The motion for an act has been delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance of the State Budget. You received his report at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Željko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45918	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. So, before us is the report on the implementation of the annual implementation rights of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2016. You got it, I'll just give you a little introduction. Therefore, on the basis of the Law on official statistics of the DZS or the State Statistics Office, in cooperation with other official statistics holders, the Commission shall draw up a draft report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. The annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 planned to implement a total of 292 statistical activities. Of which 170 research based on direct data collection. 77 statistical surveys based on administrative sources and method of observation and monitoring, 45 development activities. The DZS as the main carrier, coordinator and decontamination system of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia regularly conducts the largest number of surveys. Of the total of 292 statistical surveys in 2016 The DZS planned to carry out 235 activities. While the other holders of official statistics planned to carry out 57 activities. In 2016, DZS successfully spent a total of 233 activities. Analyzing from the perspective of the entire statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, the number of planned statistical activities increased from 283 in 2015 to 292 activities in 2016, of which 285 activities were carried out. In addition to the State Statistics Office, the following official statistics holders are defined under the Official Statistics Act and the programme of statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2013-2017. These are the Agency for Environmental Protection, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior and the administrative body of the City of Zagreb responsible for official statistics. The financial resources for the implementation of certain programmes in the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2013-2017 and the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 are provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The total implementation of the 2016 DZS financial plan amounted to around 82.8 million kuna, which is about 93% compared to the total planned funds in that year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on official statistics provides a draft proposal for the document in question on the basis of the reports delivered by all holders, with the opinion of the Statistical Council, to be drawn up by the State Statistics Office. In addition to the draft draft report, the opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia was provided at the meeting held on 22 May 2017. Following the aforementioned State Statistics Office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a draft draft report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the 2016 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. The government accepted him and directed him to the Croatian Parliament for his acceptance. And here is the proposal for the Croatian Parliament to accept the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45919	Thank you very much. We've got two representatives' clubs on file. The first is the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of whom the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic should speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The second is the HDZ representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Marijana Balic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45920	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Tufekčić with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here at the very end, or at the very beginning of the presentation to the rest of you, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the relevant report, which is very comprehensive, and we believe that such statistics and research are necessary and good. The report is that we have heard from the opening presentation, meaning the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 is the fourth and most recent report relating to the period covered by the multiannual programming document of the State Statistics Institute, i.e. through the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2013/2017. When it comes to the activities themselves not to repeat them as state secrets have said, it is only important to point out that it is of the total number of planned statistical activities of number 292. The National Statistics Institute as the main holder of the disseminator and coordinator will conduct the largest number of surveys from the total. The number of planned statistical activities increased from year to year, and this year from 2015 increased from 283 activities to 295 activities of which 285 activities were carried out. The funds that were planned, or spent, we heard, but what I would certainly point out is that because of the lack of resources, the State Statistics Office did not carry out several planned research activities in 2016, namely two activities. However, they are included in the 2017 Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities, and their implementation is planned in accordance with the defined deadlines. It is therefore necessary to take into account that the long-term and increasing lack of resources, the long-term unsustainable and becomes a limiting factor in meeting the commitments undertaken by the EU Republic of Croatia, are mainly in the activities of participation in the European statistical system, taking into account the fact that before European and hence, the Croatian statistical system is making increasing demands through the extension of existing obligations stemming from the EU legal framework in the field of official statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45921	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate with that, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Today we will believe or not part ways, and tomorrow we will leave at 9.30 with the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z. No. Six. Have a good night! The session was interrupted at 22.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-12-0.u45922	Reports on the implementation of the annual statistical plan of the Republic of Croatia 2016, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, the following conclusion is put to the vote. The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 121 for, 16 abstentions, have been reached as suggested by the parent board. Here's a colleague of Hajdash Doncic's.
