ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24938	Good morning. Can we get to work? We were already hoping there wouldn't be a single break. Here's the club, microphone please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24939	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, let's change Croatia on the subject of demographics and ethnicity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24940	Thank you. The HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24941	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I am looking for a break to highlight the subject of a bad relationship with Slavonia and Baranja through the prism of the redesign of the customs office in Slavonia, with an emphasis on Brodo-Posavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24942	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24943	Dear Madam Vice President, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement, I request a 10-minute break in order to say something about a radical pension reform, i.e. test balloons that are being released in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24944	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24945	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to draw attention to the harmfulness of food consumption with too many and not allowed quantities and types of pesticides in food.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24946	Thank you. Is there anyone else? And on behalf of which club? Thank you very much. If there's no more reports? There is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24947	Dear Vice President, I demand a break on behalf of the MOST Club to discuss the place and the Most and residents of the town of Križnica in Virovitica-Podravska County.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24948	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, no more hands in the air, no more reports. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. I'll see you. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and representative Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24950	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs. Today, I'm going to present a subject related to demographics. The decline in Croatian population's birth rate is becoming a growing and more crucial problem every day. According to UN demographic estimates, Croatia is among the ten most demographically endangered countries in the world, and by 2100 it could fall to only 2.61 million people. The key to each demographic policy is the individual's economic freedom. According to FINA on the last day of 2016, 327,176 citizens were in the blockade, and their debt was HRK 41,16 billion. More than half of the total debt of citizens or even 23.6 billion kuna refers to outstanding liabilities to banks and other credit institutions. An analysis of citizens' debt shows that a large part of citizens owe up to ten thousand kuna. These were 117,638 or 36% of all blocked at the end of 2016. The largest share in total debt of 85%, amounting to €34.9 billion, has citizens whose debts are greater than €100,000, whose share is at the same time the smallest and is 17.3%, which is 56,531 citizens more precisely. Compared to the previous year, FINA said the highest number of blocked citizens whose debt ranged from 100,000 to 500 thousand kuna increased. At the end of last year there were 15.2% more than at the end of 2015, so we see this upward trend. As a key solution to the government's most intelligent policy, it sees a 50%-to-four-year loan war subsidized. Such a measure is seemingly positive, and it truly favours banks again because of the increase in demand for loans on the one hand and, to the detriment of the state, because the budget deficit will increase in favour of private banks. On the other hand, young people will resort to these loans and you will throw that measure of long-term youth into debt slavery. It's called laying your foot in front of a blind man, otherwise a very immoral act. Natality will not be able to be improved until the government has dealt with private banks and imposed restrictions and greater control, and regulation. Banks interest our people as long as the government keeps them in that ladder. It's only when we release our people from debt slavery that we can discuss some of the most intelligent measures, until then it's just a propaganda directed by the elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24951	Thank you. The next club is on behalf of the HSS Club Mr Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24952	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS club, I asked for a break to stress once again the problem of life in Slavonia and Baranja because everyone often speaks and sympathises with Slavs that there are no jobs, that more investment needs to be made in Slavonia and Baranja and that we must preserve life in Slavonia and Baranja. So this is through the prism of the redesign of customs offices, customs offices under the password of the tobacco savings, a new reconstruction is being done and the customs crossing of Stara Gradiška under the administration of Zagreb is being abolished. The workers who worked, and mostly the Slavons from Brod-Posavina County and beyond, are transferred to the administrations of Slavonski Brod, Šamac, Svilaj if it works, and the workers from Zagreb will arrive at the crossing of Stara Gradiška, or as already decided by the Customs Administration or the Ministry of Finance. I would remind you that in 2012 we lost our customs status in Slavonski Brod, that only the office in Osijek remained. At that time, parts of the jobs went to most of the jobs, even furniture from a building owned by a customs office or the Ministry of Finance was transported to Osijek. Yes, it is a savings but again to the damage of Brod-Posavina County and the city of Slavonski Brod and people who are doing their job correctly there. You know how busy there are at the crossings in Stari Gradiška and Slavonski Brod, even in Slavonski Šmac, that there were no problems, that these people did their job correctly and I congratulate them on it, and very often there they were discovered along with the MUP and illegal transfer of various drugs, recently and weapons etc.. So they're doing a good job. And why are we punishing them now, why can't they work and why doesn't Slavonski Brod have a customs station? And the question arises, what does the existing leadership of the Customs Office in Slavonski Brod do? Shut up 'cause they're keeping their jobs. We haven't heard anything from the mayor or the mayor and there's a correlation between the government in the county and the state level. And even the finance minister from Slavonski Brod, this boat link should help Slavonia and Baranja, the town of Slavonski Brod and the Brod-Posavina County to be more jobs, to preserve the status and revive the customs office in Slavonski Brod, and we see that this ship's connection is not working. Apparently, the only link we have is the highway. And you know what's going on, there go the youth buses from Slavonia and Baranja and then from Brod-Posavina County. Maybe we should close the freeway and then we can't, so we can keep the young from leaving Slavonia and Baranja. I don't think we can do that and what we can return to the customs office Slavonski Brod, because if a customs office could be reopened in Vukovar, what Vukovar deserves that was abolished in 2012, if a new office could be opened in Slavonski Požega, which is closed in 2012, then why can't that customs office have the town of Slavonski Brod? Why does the Old City Administration have to go under Zagreb? And why can't people from Brod-Posavina County get jobs in customs and see that they're successful in their work. Here I call on the Minister of Finance to think about this because surely the citizens of the County of Brodo Posavina will not be silent about this and that we will seek solutions to preserve and restore customs status to the Slavonic number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24953	Thank you. Next club, club of HNS and HSU, representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24954	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As Gordo sounds a statement in the newspaper that Plenkovic's government, that it intends to continue where Oreshkovic's government stood, will increase the working age earlier to 67 years for retirement, or 62 years for early retirement. All of this, this process that was defined in the current law by 2038 shortened by 10 years. And it's all explained that it's necessary to balance the pension system financially. I can only tell you from this place that he is financially and fiscally balanced because we are, therefore, not resting pension, therefore, pension system on how much contributions have been received. One part goes out of taxes. And if these six billion owed by the great Agrokor concert went into the budget then that would be even more balanced. And how many more of those do not pay, or those who display minimum wages, and people work for them 10 hours a day where there is neither salary nor payment of contributions, nor health payments, etc. So we have problems without such measures, we propose measures. What's at stake here? So this risks one big stampede of going back into retirement because now the system is balanced and stimulates staying as long as possible in a working relationship. After a specific woman turns 61 and 9 months of age, this year's criteria for retirement, each month's follow-up work relationship is credited with 0.15 kuna per month of work experience. So there's a certain stimuli system. The second thing that's said is that the penalization is going to be bigger, it won't have anything to do with age. This means that from 1999 until now, we will introduce the third criteria of punishment. I repeat again, we have a reward system but we have a beating, we have to have a beating, we have to kill someone who retires, we have to punish him, we have to impoverish him to the end. That's our style. That's our style. So advocating penalization, not advocacy as long as possible in a working relationship. We are now,...... I didn't ask you anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know we have this situation today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24955	Mr. Djakic, I'm asking you nicely, if you won't listen to an agent you can go outside, this distraction is not quite correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24956	So we have this situation and all those who at this time have the conditions to go to an old or early retirement will leave at the moment of the announcement, at the moment of the development of this, the presentation of laws or draft laws in public consultation and will exercise their right. People are not willing to sacrifice their right for the benefit of something that they don't have a sense of working well. What is proposed is to arrange professional pensions well after some who are exposed to dangers and have a well-favoured retirement period today and can continue to work legally within their working capacity, pay contributions to health care, pension, etc. Well, that's a good thing to work out, but this rest is not good at all. And it's not good, it's a big nebuloza that's been said to make a different retirement out of the second pillar and to give someone 10% of his savings. It's one of the nebuloses that requires a broader elaborate and I wouldn't bother myself today. What I would ultimately like to warn you is that there is no panic that the crisis in Agrokor will suffer pension funds. As far as Agrokor and his companies have everything they have, they have less than 1% of pension funds portfolios. which is no danger to mandatory pension funds. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24957	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24958	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd like to draw attention to the harmfulness of food consumption that contains illicit amounts and pesticides. There's biological and chemical contamination of food. Biological contamination as we are all informed and familiar with not so long ago when salmonella has been discovered in food distributed in shopping centres, and it is biological contamination that causes acute symptomatology and leads to a rapid response of sanitary inspections and health services. Chemical contamination with pesticides is quiet. It causes slight but long-term human health damage with the consequences of malignancies due to carcinogenic activity of too many pesticides. The chemical revolution began 60 years ago. After World War II, pesticides with artificial fertilisers became the most wanted products in agriculture. Many pesticides have a long half-life. This means that they are accumulated in soil and built into agricultural products, in fruits and vegetables, in consumption of these products, animals and humans through food. The excessive use of pesticides whose residues can be found in all kinds of fruits and vegetables concerns all consumers and raises the question of how many banned and harmful substances there are, for example, in one apple. Are you sure how those who control food samples assure us and serve them information about how pesticides in certain products have been found, but in the permitted quantities or below maximum permitted? The health minister said that food is one of the important factors in the high incidence of malignancies. We really need to be concerned at national level about toxins in food because the incidence of malignancies is not only due to better diagnostics, because we have a shift in malignancies towards younger age. It is quite reliable that domestic food has less toxins than it is quite reliable that there are more that food is cheaper and older. Such food is often imported to Croatia after its expiry date has expired in some EU countries. Such cheap food causes double damage, destroys Croatian agriculture on the one hand, and is largely responsible for increasing cancer pain. I remind the Minister of Agriculture of as much food control as possible, the more conscious work of inspection services and, of course, the withdrawal of certain moves against irresponsible importers, manufacturers and inspection services. We are fighting for Croatia which will be free from GMO production and illicit quantities and pesticides in Croatian fields. In this way we will become a recognizable and interesting tourist destination with a better gastronomic offer, so tourism and agriculture ministers are going to organize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24959	Thank you. The next club is a club of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB colleagues, Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24960	My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed president with his associates. I'm going to use these five minutes to talk about working in the Parliament even though it's already quite a bit of a talk. It's been said a lot I'd say with the right and everything that's said makes sense and I support it. However, why do I still need to speak? Because it's a public experience, the experience isn't a meaningless thing. The public experience of the Assembly compromised to this extent that it would take a lot of effort and time to fix the picture. This is important for at least two reasons for content i.e. the legislative function and the message that the Assembly is sending. Today I don't have time to talk about the content even though my colleague and Grmoja spoke and colleague Lovrinović and I support it all, it's all fine. That's where my colleague Lovrinovic's proposals come in. My colleague Grumo was talking about statistics that are encouraging, but there's no time for that, and I'm going to talk about these messages that we're sending with our own behavior. Well, we will often mention problems that are really problems, but we don't mention how we act on the public and the public's trust in a state institution like Parliament. Well, in short, this House has inconclusiveness, and the unserious and unserious messages in this House seem to be a state's insecure outside. Imagine how a people who do not believe in their own will feel, who are experiencing their own state unseriously. The argument that has taken place in the Assembly that is unacceptable acts as a message for an even greater divisional creation. Croatian society is too small to live in such divisions. The surface present here gives a message to the outside, a message of ignorance, it's very dangerous. Insulting that has become an integral part of speech by causing the sense of untouchableness of those who speak is also a very serious message. Taking over the role of court in this House and condemning people is terror, introducing terror streets. No respect in this particular case opposition, it is to cause characteristics in society of incompetence and aggression, it is not good. Ignoring second opinion is a message of haughtiness, that's inadmissible, gentlemen. And prior dissent sends a message of vengefulness. Finally, since my time will run out, the picture in the Parliament is bad. We need to fix the picture in the Parliament so we can fix the state only. And when there's a bad picture in an institution like Parliament in public, it's a message, a society without being able to be a society in which it's desirable to live. First we have to arrange our relationships, our communication, and then we can go to all the other models. This does not mean that there must be no polemics, however, polemics very sharp, principled, but no offense. We try to send that message, try to define our responsibilities to ourselves, to the state, to the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24961	Thank you. And another club, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24962	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, through a local topic, I will touch the general social situation and everything that we believe to be important to the Republic today, or we don't care, and the theme of the eviction of people from the Republic of Croatia is so from Slavonia, Podravina. Well, here's the thing. So we live in the 21st century and today it's really a lot of young people leaving our country, but what's worse is happening to us all the settlements, the entire settlements are dying away. I'll talk about two settlements. One settlement in the Municipality of Pitomača, it is the settlement of Križnica. It was recognized or heard in the media at the 12th month when the bird flu appeared. At that time, Vecernjak wrote the Department of Veterinary and Food Safety of the Ministry of Agriculture immediately took all measures to isolate the settlement. It turned out a little ironic because this place is really isolated. When it came to the Pelješko bridge, it was said that the Pelješki bridge was actually a Pelješki bridge, a solid road connection would be established between all parts of Croatian territory. So that's not true either because the town of Križnica is completely isolated by the Drava River and the state border, and in that sense when the bird flu appeared, the journalists wrote there is no danger of transmission. So the only bridge that was built in 1968 is Matej Meštrović, who is the author and the Vukovar Tower. But since 1968, that bridge has never been given a valid license. It was marked by the municipal authorities "No Movement", but here it is in the Republic of Croatia, although there is a movement ban, of course, that no one paid the fine. And I went that bridge, passed with. It's usually a very nice bridge, but it's not safe because it's rocking because it's made of planks and that's the problem of the Republic of Croatia. So two years ago, a local permit was made, a building permit was created in progress, but what we must determine as a society, whether we will take care of each of the inhabitants of the Republic in the same way and as soon as possible to solve this problem. What should certainly be mentioned is that Križnica belongs to the regional park area of the river Drava, it is an extremely beautiful landscape and there are tourists coming. And it's also the Evening List, the journalists wrote said tourists who come back, and part of the few citizens said they'd leave if they could. Is the skeleton that drives there she's usually funded from the ZUC budget she doesn't drive at night, she doesn't drive on low and high waterways, so if people happen to be sick then she drives them in dots across this bridge. So what is important, all the territory of the Republic of Croatia needs to be connected as soon as possible, in this case it is necessary to build a bridge because the Architectural Faculty claims that this bridge is not worth investing in. And the second village I want to mention is also not the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, in the area of the municipality where I live, it is Gornja Villavo settlement, they still have no asvalt. There are fewer people there and it's a little weird that in the 21st century there are settlements that don't have asvalt. And if we don't do everything we can as a society, no matter how much compensation, how much money ZUC gets, if we don't take care of these people, then there's really going to be a saying of one man who once said it, so it's cheaper to move them than to bring them the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u24963	Thank you. After the break, we move on to the next item of the agenda. It is about: - Proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of regulations, first reading, P.Z. Number 109. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The committees on legislation and the economy are, or the Committee on Legislatives has only held a debate on this law. And I would ask the Government's Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman to give us an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33512	Honorable MPs. Here's a pleasure to have the opportunity to introduce the new draft law on the impact assessment of regulations. Introductoryly, I would like to say what the concept of the impact assessment of the regulations implies. The new draft law therefore defines the process as a process of preparing and drawing up draft draft laws through an analysis of direct effects with a view to selecting therefore an optimal legal solution or taking other activities and measures. The impact assessment as a process is part of the European Commission's agenda for better regulation. It is implemented at the level of the EU institutions, as well as every Member State, so the EU must find a way to install these basic principles of the agenda in the legislative process of an EU member state. The key elements of that agenda are as follows. So it is timely to plan to make the law, to make the law a quality, therefore a quality process and that it is based on an analysis of the existing state. To consider therefore the expected economic, social, environmental and other relevant effects of the proposed laws. Therefore, it is objective to analyse the expected outcome of the law. To include stakeholders in the procedure, therefore with full respect, the shares to which this law or regulation applies. And that, of course, their views are taken into account, respected and, of course, reasonedly provided answers by experts in the event of consent or disagreement with the points of view. It is also important to provide the necessary resources and resources in a timely manner for the effective implementation of the proposed and adopted laws. What do we do with that? So by applying these principles, we are actually achieving that we have a more favourable business environment, that legal predictability and security are achieved and that the legislative process is therefore opened to all stakeholders through a simplified procedure of making an impact assessment of the rules of these legislative proposals. What I would also like to emphasise is that the proposal for this law is part of the measures under the 2016 National Reform Programme and is also part of the packages that are part of the package of measures that are important for further withdrawal of the European Structural and Investment Funds. Therefore, esteemed MPs, the subject matter of this law really concerns all of us. It enables us to pay particular attention to the analysis of the expected consequences that will arise from the bill's proposal with full respect and public involvement, i.e. the interested public, in its production. What I would also like to say, as you know, is therefore this bill is not a newspaper in our legal system. The current strategic and normative impact assessment framework is now the following acts. Therefore, the applicable law on the assessment of the effects of the rules applicable from 1 January 2012, then the Regulation on the implementation of the Regulation's impact assessment procedure and the Regulation's impact assessment strategy and the action plan for the period from 2013 to 2015. Following the three-year full application of these regulations, the Government has approached an analysis of the application of this law and, on the basis of the report on the implementation of the annual normative plans for the three-year period, it means for 2013, '14. And '15. the year, as well as on the basis of the report on the implementation of the impact assessment of the regulations for the same period since '13. Until '15. the year has come to the following conclusions. So the trends are quite unfavourable and show the following. That the implementation of annual normative plans is in constant decline. So here is an indication that for 2015 we have an annual plan of normative activities at 10.7%, so really one piece of information that I would say is a bit of a concern. Of the 140 proposed legislative proposals during this three-year period, which were to be drawn up in the regulation impact assessment process, a total of 34 was made at less than 25%. Also, since the 589 proposed laws at the government meetings during the three-year period, 400 draft laws have not been covered by annual normative activities plans. So we're talking about a percentage of 70% of all established legal proposals that were practically not planned. We believe that the complex and long-term process of assessing the effects of the regulations actually discourages professional lawmakers from applying it. Or what happens in practice is that the impact assessment is actually a form, it's a procedural and administrative task, and so that's what you can see in these indicators that I've just said. The results of this analysis carried out indicated the following. It is therefore necessary to simplify the regulatory framework for assessing the effects of the rules, to better regulate possible emergency situations that occur in the legislative procedure. It is also necessary to strengthen the analytical capacity to carry out the assessment of the effects of the regulations in professional carriers. This law, i.e. the bill of law, wants to stop these adverse trends and to establish legal certainty and predictability, and to create a consequently business environment. This bill has been drawn up according to the current regulation impact assessment procedure, which means that it has been through two rounds of consultation. Two public presentations of the substance of the proposal of this law were also held and 40 state administration bodies, legal persons with public authority, professional chambers and the draft bill was also discussed within the Economic and Social Council. This law proposes to simplify the procedure and significantly shorten the time needed to implement the whole regulation impact assessment process. Now, in short, I'm actually going to give you the most important paper this bill makes. Therefore, in particular in the current law, the procedure relating to the draft statement proposal lasted at least 45 days, and the further procedure concerning the drafting of the statement proposal and the draft bill was further 15 to 30 days. Now the step in drawing up the draft statement proposals has been omitted, and the overall process of assessing the effects of the regulations can be completed within 30 days instead of 60 days. So, in fact, it's a shortened time at which an assessment can be carried out. A significant role is given to assess the impact of the draft legislation on the small economy through the test of small and medium enterprises through so-called so-called "SME". ... the test is also important to assess the administrative cost by using the so-called [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] SCM methodologies, hence the standard cost model methodology and in that part institutionalised cooperation between the Office for Law and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts as the body responsible for the SME test and the SCM methodology. So for each draft bill that goes into the preparation process and after that adoption, two elements, two procedures must be implemented. The previous procedure for assessing the effects of the regulations, and depending on the results of that procedure, so if the law is shown to have an effect, then a detailed assessment of the effects of the rules shall be carried out. So these are the two fundamental steps that the law provides for. In addition to the economic effects mentioned above, the social impacts, labour and labour market effects, environmental protection, human rights protection and competition are also covered. So these are aspects that this law recognises as important in terms of impact. The draft law reserves the government's obligation to adopt a legislative plan each year containing all draft draft laws to be proposed to the esteemed body, so to the Croatian Parliament during the year, including laws harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU laws. Since the current application of the law has shown that there are several categories of laws for which it is not intended to carry out the regulation's impact assessment procedure, it is prescribed that it is fully excluded, or may exclude from the application of the procedure for the confirmation of international contracts, then the implementation of Regulations and other binding legal acts of the EU directly applicable in the field of the Republic of Croatia. The regulations related to the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and authorising the Government to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. It is also foreseen that the assessment can be carried out in an ex post model, i.e. the obligation to carry out ex post enforcement of the effects of the regulations in cases where the draft bill is exempt from the implementation of the impact assessment of the regulations if it is adopted to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, some hastily eliminating the threat of damage or the protection of particularly economic, or social interest, with a detailed indication of the reason. Therefore, in such exceptional cases, there is an obligation to implement the Regulation's effect within 2 years of the entry into force of such a law. The government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out in its 2016-20 programme that a positive and stable business environment is one of the preconditions for decision by entrepreneurs to start and expand business in Croatia. With an already adopted action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy, which is focused on removing exactly administrative barriers to business and reducing administrative costs, we believe that the consistent implementation of this law should result in a smaller number of unplanned legislative activities, a simpler and shorter process of assessing the effects of the regulations, and a further opening of the legislative procedure towards the public. This ultimately brings greater legal predictability and security, strengthening the rule of law, reducing obstacles, reducing administrative costs, as I have previously said for citizens and business entities. The draft law therefore proposed the adoption of the Croatian Parliament in order to further improve this way of preparing and drawing up the draft law, simplify and remove existing shortcomings in the application of the current Law on the impact assessment of the rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33513	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33514	Thank you very much. The normative framework is very important, and most of all everything that stops legal uncertainty is good, so that this law tries to be aware that the effects and regulations are achieved, i.e. to be in real life predictable. However, the people in Croatia see legal uncertainty because from obvious examples, so you mentioned the economic legislative framework, the market. An example of a grandmother selling onions or a chapel at the market, and if the inspector comes, then she'll end up like she ended up in prison for a month. And if Todorovic, Tedesci or some similar tycoons of the entire state of Croatia hold us together, the entire economic system, hundreds of thousands of people were brought to politics. It's not those people's fault, it's the policies of the present and the left and the right that allow them to behave that way. Nothing, but even some pay for their fate. We must weep over the fate of the cashiers, the fate of the land we gave them, the potentials, the resources. So legal uncertainty is huge in Croatia. The grandmother who sells at the market has closed hers that has made trouble and effort, has been closed for a month and Todorovic is paid over his fate. There is no legal certainty and no legal certainty and no legal effect in this way. This law is good and paper will be good, and as well as the many laws written simply apply as this blank paper, we can tear it up, and so far it's visible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33515	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next line, MP Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33516	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. You said that the law on the impact assessment of regulations is a good tool for central state bodies to create a legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia, which we welcome and also invite you to be a tool to all central state bodies that the less laws in the Croatian Parliament come by emergency procedure because then there is no real assessment of the effects of the regulations on the ground, then we bring this ad hoc, and finally we see that some legislative regulations and non-implementable, which often turns us into a country that is insane and that in the context of different laws, different state bodies differ and interprets the implementing rules and we lack implementing regulations. And you didn't mention it, and it's often in the laws that ultimately says that this law doesn't need any extra funding. Based on this, the criticism on my part is on behalf of the municipalities, cities and counties that such a law is very often prescribed, they transfer obligations to local self-government units, and then in implementation, the municipalities, the city or the county should finance some implementing regulations and implement them. For example, the financing of civil protection, the Red Cross, the fire department, shot down by a fight, and we see that the legislator did not properly assess the effects on the ground at that time. And the latest examples, and you were talking about the need to encourage the economy is in construction where every craftsman, the entrepreneur must have an employee dip. The buildings, I would like them to have so many in Croatia, but they are simply not there and people are forced to close turns because someone has not properly assessed the implementation effects of these regulations. It is similar in agriculture, Grandma will not have to buy where the seed of the harbor to plant and protect from the bow flies because in the farm pharmacy there must be a dipl.ing. agriculture, and we don't have so many in Croatia, nor can anyone with a pharmacy pay for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33517	Thank you. Another replica, Agent Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33518	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Now, in the opening statement, you said that the impact assessment of the rules excludes the application of the assessment when the law is passed to confirm international contracts, which I understand is due to the implementation of the regulation and other binding legal acts of the EU. In fact, my question is because I answered for the debate, what are EU acts for which we do not need an assessment in the adoption of our laws? Aren't the directives EU acts, and we apply them through legal regulations? Yesterday I spoke of something about the obligation planned or proposed mandatory, mandatory medical examinations of older people over the age of 65. Therefore, when it comes to a directive applicable through certain laws, the provisions of this Directive are also mandatory. We have adopted this directive and we must implement it in our own legislation. Therefore, I do not believe or believe that we should make an impact assessment and a proposal for the laws we adopt and based on the directives. Please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33519	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33520	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Thank you very much for your suggestion. Here is the clarification to your question, when it comes to regulations and other binding EU legal acts that are directly applicable, the EU's legal system and which we are part of as a Member State, is conceived in a way that the regulations are directly applicable in our legal system. And what we mean by this is, in fact, the implementing acts which determine the authorities responsible for the implementation of those Regulations as well as the infringement provisions in case there is a breach of the regulations which are directly applicable in the system. As regards the confirmation of international contracts, there was a suggestion on the Legislative Committee that the assessment procedure was not to be excluded obligatoryly but optionally, so that it could be implemented, but that it was not required to be excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33521	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33522	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all. On behalf of the club, I would say something about this bill, most of it has already been said by the secretary of state, so I will try not to repeat myself, and I will expand my thoughts on this subject a few general issues that bother me when we think about normative activities in the Republic. What is important to say is that this bill has also been passed through the consultation process with the interested public. In fact, this bill is the result of an analysis of the law now in force in 1.1.2012 and it is good that, after the observed shortcomings during a certain period of time, the law was in place to improve the normative solution in order to make this process of assessing the effects of the legal rules more effective. What has been observed by the analysis and what is also highlighted here by the rapporteur is indeed perhaps disturbing. Why do I say that? We have indeed witnessed that in the last few years most normative activity has happened unplannedly which is not ultimately good and which many times leads to hyperproduction of normative acts. It seems to me that our citizens are engaged in craftsmanship, for example. Many times they feel they have to have their own, not to tell the lawyers who will follow for them what is happening in the regulations regarding their activity so that they do not simply miss something that is important to do in accordance with the law. And I think it's a good thing that normative activity can be planned and that it's really only when it's justified that they lay down regulations in some emergency procedures. I think in this area we can really make qualitative shifts. Practice has also shown that the annual plans of normative activities are being less and less implemented, and this is also related to what I was saying, so I also conclude it can be improved and better. What is good is that after such an analysis, it has really been approached by full reflection on how to fix that law in order to produce better effects. And I think it's very good that the time has been shortened for the implementation of the entire regulation impact assessment procedure alone because in this way we will still contribute to that assessment of the effects of the regulations being carried out in most cases when the regulation is passed and that there can be no justification that there was no time, that the procedure is too complicated and that for such reasons it will be avoided. I think it's actually very commendable that that time has shortened by more than half the time that the current law requires. Which results from the need so far, means in that first process of assessing the testimony for 45 days and then another 15 to 30 days, in most cases it was 30 days and now the whole procedure is reduced to 30 days which I think is very good. What has been demonstrated so far during the application of this law that it is good and that the public was interested in participating in procedures and that it has shown good results, that it has contributed to transparency of normative activities and in some way led to citizens feeling and interested and in some way to feel and to greater legal certainty when they can make observations themselves and participate in this process. What I also think is good and what is introduced by this new proposal is an obligation to assess the direct effects of draft laws on individual addresses, especially citizens, families, households, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, workers, pensioners and the like. It is also good that the government's obligation to adopt an annual plan of normative activities containing all draft laws that are planned to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption as well as all laws that effectively bring the Republic of Croatia into line with EU legislation. There's also a procedure for these, let's put it this way to draft laws that should be passed by emergency procedure, which is also good. And it is also good to norm those regulations where this procedure does not need to be carried out. It is also good that in those situations where it is really necessary to adopt some normative act and it is not possible to implement this procedure for the reason that the Republic of Croatia threatens a greater danger or damage to prescribe in these situations that this procedure does not have to be implemented before the law is passed but that there is an obligation to implement it later within 2 years. We expect that by applying this law in such a amended way, most of the regulations will go through this procedure and that all stakeholders involved in the process will be actively involved and that they will really be taken into account more about the effects of the regulations on the addressees to which the regulation is directed rather than so much on the final regulation itself. So it shouldn't be the only goal just to pass the regulation. What I would like to point out in the end is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources as set out in the reasoning of the proposal. However, I believe that the quality of this law will really need to be ensured, and I would say sufficient capacity of human strength, or people who will really deal with the active implementation of this law because if it does not, then it could really happen that we have a law that is beautifully written, but there is no one to implement it. And we will see if in the future they will need to plan additional funds for these reasons, or if not at national level, they may also be affected at some local level. The HDZ Club will support such a bill because we believe it is a qualitative shift in relation to the current law and that in fact this proposal I would say is out of line with the qualitative better solutions that have been made after a qualitative analysis of the current regulation. And what I'd like to say in the end. If we have more effective regulations in the Republic of Croatia, we will have a more efficient state, a legally secure state, and eventually we will have more and more satisfied citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33523	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33524	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelkovac, in your debate, you have praised what I agree with, and that this law is being passed and that it would be good to have applied in the past, because for example I share your concerns about the problems of craftsmen. It means that Mr. Maric has made a quality assessment and means a test for small and medium enterprises, i.e. for crafts, I would see that, for example, the effect of his law on profit tax allows the Chamber of craftsmen to raise membership fees for all craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia from 52 kuna per month on 76 kuna only by amending that law, which was defined by Mr. Maric, means an increase in the untaxable part, has enabled the president of the Chamber of craftsmen who is the candidate of HDZ for the mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County. So much about it, and I would like all entrepreneurs in Krapina-Zagorje County to hear this, that the man who additionally burdened the entrepreneurs, or craftsmen, for over 50% of the mandatory chamber membership fees, the candidate that HDZ is pushing for the mayor. So much for your concern for craftsmen, you also mentioned it in the debate. When you push this man who burdens craftsmen with additional pressures and propose to the mayor of Krapina-Zagorian County. And on the other hand, it would be good if Mr. Maric had used this methodology when proposing these all tax laws because he would then have found that he allowed Dragutin Ranogajca, the candidate of HDZ, to the president of the Croatian Chamber of Brethren to burden all craftsmen and so thousands of craftsmen in Krapina-Zagoria County. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33525	Thank you. The distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33526	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, when I spoke about the effects of the regulations and how they relate also to the effect they have on our citizens, among other things, I felt that because of the increased hyperproduction of the rules, most of them could hardly follow and manage. What you were talking about, I remind you that no regulation is passed for the sake of an individual. It is made for everyone in society, and you cannot comment on the effect of the regulations in this way, watching how something can be read or not read in a specific case. I just want to tell you that the effects of the regulations that we've adopted will only be seen and are related to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33527	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State Natasa Mikush Zigman, Mrs. Pogačić Zdenka, one of me would say the best officials in the Government of the Republic of Croatia since I know it from a personal example by working with her. Thank you for coming here to propose this law which I am convinced will be supported in the Croatian Parliament because it introduces the obligation for those who propose the laws, which is most often the Government but also the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to carry out certain procedures. Of course, the law obliges the government as a body that plans legal activities throughout the year to plan and that these laws that refer to the procedure are mandatory to test and how this law acts on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to see, meaning what effect is concrete and cost-effective, or I would say in a way that facilitates business or facilitates the life of our citizens, to see how much this will apply to their daily work and life, i.e. what effect it will have on that. On the other hand, it is absolutely necessary that the law also stipulates that certain activities are planned during the year, we see that even according to the data that are here, that we are not yet at the level that man would say when something is planned to do so. A lot of legislation comes and goes beyond the legislative plan because they are necessary, but the law defines that they should also be followed if the emergency law is shown to be quickly included, or that it could not be planned, that it must also be later if it goes into accelerated emergency procedures to make subsequent changes to the effects of the regulations. And it's all good, and one day I believe that our administration will come to a level not to achieve 37 or 40% of the plan, but to be 70, 80, and 20% eventually be exceptions, or what wasn't planned. So the trend has to be positive and we have to fight for it. What our mission here is to understand the quality and need of this law, to understand what it means. And here's the problem with me seeing here is still incomprehensible, so there's no point in what it's going to be, which one it would be. That's exactly where you can estimate what a single law means tomorrow for me to tell the craftsmen again. So when Minister Maric proposes to amend the Income Act, which is unfortunately a very small number of those who really need it and for a small amount, and the most liberating ones, he can immediately assess that according to that law, it allows the Chamber of craftsmen to raise a mandatory chamber contribution from 52 to 76 kuna, which they should not have done and not have done, I would say, neither the needs nor anything else, but they did it immediately and showed that they were not taking care of the craftsmen at all. All craftsmen who are looking at us now must be aware that the first opportunity Dragutin Ranogajec used to raise his income to himself and his chamber, which was provided by Zdravko Marić, we can now assume here that it may have been the motivation of Zdravko Marić to enable additional revenues to the Chamber of Commerce. So the first moment since 1.1 this year has been raised by 24 kunas per month, or other words by almost 50%, at an annual level, since in Croatia we have about 80,000 craftsmen amounting to about 20 million kuna. That's the Dragutin Ranogajek at the head of the craftsman's chamber took from the pockets of the craftsman. What's my problem, what the HDZ Representatives Club doesn't see is that they're even rewarding that man and running for Krapina-Zagorski Mayor. And now here I can say that, we're going to make here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP a new law on the Chamber of Commerce that will regulate again that this increased membership fee is coming down and then we're going to make an assessment of the effects of the regulations where people will be clear that there will be no more membership fees set by the HDZ or the Ranogajac, but there will be memberships of those who can pay or much less than it is now. And the question of whether or not there should be mandatory memberships in the Chamber of crafts after I saw that this is how the Chamber of crafts was set up. Also, if Minister Maric had been doing an impact assessment of the effects of the VAT regulations, not only consultations with the interested public then he would have seen not only the cumulative amount of the tourism sector, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs in tourism, it is Mr Kliman who fought against it and CAppelli but failed within HDZ that when Mr Maric raised VAT to 25% and those two billion kunas that burdened tourism but that made a quality impact assessment of the rules then he would have seen how many thousands and tens of thousands of craftsmen and other entrepreneurs are burdened with additional costs, how less competitive they are, how much bigger our companies and hotels are less competitive and that he would not be able to invest in certain content and that this business is not in a position where he was in 2016 and that we will have problems with investment in tourism. Of course, it was not done, such a detailed analysis was not done, neither was an analysis of the changes in income tax when Mr. Maric estimated again in a rough cumulative amount of disbursement of citizens and then said how much it was hundreds of millions of kuna, but that he did a quality analysis, that he did a real assessment of the administrative cost or how many people would pay less then it would be seen that people with salaries of five thousand kuna would get nothing, and that those with 50 and 60 thousand kuna net monthly salary would get five, six thousand kuna. And this information is interesting to us, and it's a shame that we don't have it with the law, that we have the IRS data and that we see the real truth of that law, which is that several thousand people got five, six thousand a month, and that 500 thousand or 600 thousand employees didn't get 100 kuna, and then we would have a quality basis for deciding and we could do a quality debate. That's what we need to assess the effects of the regulations, and we need to get to that standard. And then they wouldn't talk too often over the finger, but they'd have the exact data because the IRS has all the data they need. So we're going to support this law on this side, we want that part to be upgraded, we want people and representatives in other clubs to realize that when you talk about craftsmen, and you're proposing to the mayor of the man who raised the locksmith by 50%, so it doesn't go into the same sentence, it's not possible to present it that way. We take care of craftsmen but here is the mayor of this one who raised 50% of the earners of all Croatian craftsmen and craftsmen in Krapina-Zagorski County where he is running for mayor who by the way, along the way be told that the county is a very tourist county, Zagorje on your palm where you have spas and tourism and all those people there must know that this Ranogaci didn't exactly rebel when the VAT in tourism was raised, there was no demonstration. At the very least, it would be polite for your hosts not to accept the HDZ candidate who did it to the caterers, but when you go after the function, then anything is possible. So people on that side need to be aware of who's behind it, who's working, who's talking about craftsmen on behalf of the club is serious, as I think I'm going to suggest that the amendments to the law to make it impossible to continue the Dragutin Ranogajci and HDZ. Who says that just pro form and then tomorrow proposes this man to the mayor? And that is why we need in the future a quality plan of normative activities, a quality basis through a test for small and medium entrepreneurship, so-called. The ICJ test of Croatia, an assessment of the administrative cost for citizens what is absolutely important to us, given that we still need to give priority to the economy, should be given priority to citizens, citizens are essentially the most important interests of all of us here, although the economy that indirectly employs and the citizens and finance the whole society but citizens must be at first. And on this side we support and we think that this is possible progress as far as legislation is concerned, and I believe that it will give certain activities that will lead to Croatian laws being better than they were yesterday. And maybe it'll help some of the MPs here not to call it a day because of the political moment and the demagogy of a company that employs 60,000 people, who tomorrow have to pay their salaries because the easiest thing to do now is to show in one man is to collect points and essentially damage 60,000 people. So I'm not particularly interested in the owner of Agrokor, I'm interested in the suppliers of Agrokor, I'm interested in the employees of Agrokor, that's what the focus of my interest is. These companies will relocate their property and will continue to function, restructure their business but our interest here is not to destroy the safety of those 60,000 people working there with their irresponsible statements because I think someone will like it. This also requires additional responsibility for us in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much for this proposal and the SDP Representatives Club will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33529	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33530	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I see that you have used most of your part of the debate to deal with Mr. Ranogajec since 2012, but since you became a minister and it is nothing strange. But I'm going back a little bit in history when you were a minister, when you were fiercely representing some of your views, so I'm going to say something about it. You announced 2012. 13,000 new crafts and 50,000 new jobs, I hope you remember that statement you made. Then you said in 2013 you would abolish mandatory membership in HGK and HOK. And now I'm reading a title from the Evening List, says Maras about HGK we're abolishing mandatory membership and then Vrdoljak immediately says it's not true. Tell me, why didn't you succeed as minister of small entrepreneurship and crafts to carry out your intentions? Were you incompetent or were you as a party or as a government in which you had a coalition partner agreed to be a junior partner to the HNS as you did today in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33531	The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33532	Thank you very much. Considering that you're quite... And a wise representative you know I'm not incompetent, so you can remove it right away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on the other hand, I did my part of the job, but as I would say, sometimes life doesn't work out, the partner has to agree. In this case, Vrdoljak disagreed, yes, you're right. Which doesn't mean that once it doesn't pass, it won't pass another time. I've had a lot of attempts, the first time he's failed, and the second time he's very successful. ... I absolutely believe that you in your career don't have a lot of those situations because you're not trying anything at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So if you don't try anything, then you can't even make it. So the point is, Mr. Fighter, you're trying to fight for your views. So if you want me to share some of my experiences, maybe help you in your work because I see that you've been representing here for a long time, and you haven't written any laws in person and suggested. So come to me, here after, I'll give you a few tips because I want you to be better, not only raise your hand, vote, but also propose, try and sometimes succeed, sometimes fail. You know how it feels when you succeed. ... Ranogac made it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What did he do, please? He's managed to get your support for He managed to get your support for Krapina-Zagorski Mayor and he thinks he's going to be mayor there and on the other hand, he's going to be hoarding craftsmen who write me daily e-mails and they're saying he picked up a hack in HOK by 50%, and he did it because you gave it to him. [[Intruder Reiner: Let's not throw from the site please.]] I won't give it to him. Now, I said there's a new HOK law going on that I'm going to write and that's going to go after it to make it impossible. And it goes, and thank you to MOST for your support because they also have the same attitude, when the Law on the Chamber of Commerce comes to the Assembly, I'm sure I'll succeed in another attempt and you help Mr... Maybe you'll pick up some of those who like craftsmen and the Chamber of Commerce on account of that. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33533	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33534	Dear colleague Maras from your debate I read something that I personally advocate all these years in the Croatian Parliament. Yes, of course, it is good that we have the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations but not that it is an assessment of the impact of the financial sustainability position, from the position of sustainability of the budget in relation to a particular problem, but that we have an impact assessment of the rules which is comprehensive and which has a long-term component. I don't care what's going on right now. I don't care what happens in ten years. If we talk about things like tax reform, I'll try to illustrate it, and if we claim that the family with two children has 5400 kunas of an untaxable amount. What does that mean? What it means is whether we have a poverty line below which an individual in the family, or a family member, can't live, is that 1516 kuna that we have to free from paying extra health insurance as an income censorship or we're going to have some new poverty line. Because the social state should say, okay. 5400 is untaxable for a four-member family. So no one can, this family if it has less and if it works one and if it has 5,000 kunas pay when it pays the contributions gets 4 nets, it doesn't pay any taxes. Can this family live with 1,000 kuna per member of the family? So I'm talking about a comprehensive impact assessment. What happens when we cut the profit tax from 20 to 18%. So what happens tomorrow, and what happens in 10 years which is our investment potential? What potential for job creation? That's what I'm up for, and I recognized that in your debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33535	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33536	Absolutely, Mr. Hrella. So when Mr. Maric represented tax reform he spoke in a way of two billion kuna we will have more than VAT in tourism without any projection of this type that you said how much this includes small, medium craftsmen, large entrepreneurs. What does that mean for their credit potential in perspective, in investment. You come from Istria, and you know how many people actually have problems now compared to last year, because they didn't have a 30% margin in tourism now. If you took 12% from them and you took most of their profits, probably or made them raise prices, so they're going to decrease volume, and they're also making less money again. So there was no such thing. In tax reform, income tax estimates say, I don't know 300 or 400 million kuna will be left to citizens through income tax, i.e. raising these rates 40% and 25%. But you also need a rate reduction, I'm sorry, 25%. So you need to look at what happened. So out of these 400 million kunas, two, three thousand received an average of five, six thousand kunas. So that's 200 million kuna. 3,000 people picked up half the tax exemption. Why didn't it say so in his proposal, but it says here we will release the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for 300 million kuna. But say that you freed more than half of that money, or you gave it to people who make 30, 40,000 kunas. So 2,3,000 people half, and 600 thousand people are also half. So what kind of justice is that? What kind of tax reform is this? Who did you do that to? To the citizens or to this interesting circle, its interest circle, is a very simple answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33537	Thank you very much. The next one is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33538	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you were part of my debate misrepresented when you said that I had actually shown false concern for craftsmen. I assure you that my concern for any segment in society is not false, especially for craftsmen. I named them only as an example, and I said it's not good what we've had in the last few years often hyper-produced regulations. I listed them only as examples that are difficult to cope with and how I find that not good. So I could set as an example anyone, units of local and regional self-government that apply a bunch of regulations and which are precisely due to frequent amendments to the regulations, which are sometimes made to the amendment of one article, and then the same changes do not comply with other regulations that are also important when applied so that the regulation can be properly applied, so we have a non-compliant application of the rules, and we often do not know which regulation we have to apply, because then there is an interpretation that is general, which is special, etc. That's what I've been talking about, and it's not in any way that I feel like the only craftsmen are being threatened in this way. I wonder if you as a minister while you were the minister for most of the impact assessment procedure have at least insisted on it and spent most of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33539	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33540	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelkovac, you have now felt called because you spoke in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. You're from Karlovac County and I may personally not be able to object to you as far as this part of the Ranogajec and HOK are concerned. Oh, no? You're not from that county. But as you speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, you have representatives from Krapina-Zagorian County, and here you said that you in the club are concerned about craftsmen and take care of how craftsmen function and whether they are difficult on the market and whether they are burdened with certain costs. So I had to react and say that you in HDZ, the HDZ Representatives Club, support a man for mayor in Krapina-Zagorje County who raised 50% of the chamber mandatory contribution to all artisans in the Republic of Croatia. So that's a very clear message to everyone. As HDZ I don't think of you personally now, you spoke on behalf of the club, so HDZ supports the man for the mayor who raised all the craftsmen, all 80,000 50% of the chamber contribution and thus additionally burdened them. That's the problem. So you can't stand on the one hand, as it will be easier for you, and on the other hand you push the man who has burdened and took 20 million kunas at the annual level of craftsmen throughout Croatia or in the Chamber of Commerce the other HDZ. Well, I mean, you hired you, I'd say parasitic organizations, obviously as a party. HGK President HDZ here is a candidate for mayor and in the Chamber of crafts outside HDZ, so people need to know, they're watching us. We are asked when we meet on the road why you do not reduce, so because HDZ keeps its people in those positions and uses the money of craftsmen and entrepreneurs for its specific activities and that is very simple truth. That's what I'm fighting for, and that's why I reacted, not to you personally, but as HDZ because you spoke for the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33541	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HNS-HSU Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33542	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations. That such a law is needed was recognised in 2012 when it was first introduced into the legal space of the Republic of Croatia. The intention was to ensure the development of more effective and quality legislation, of course it is welcome and that no one is against it and such a way of working. But that didn't come back to life. It didn't come to life between political circles or among citizens because we all thought it wasn't that important because we always think that law doesn't touch us, and every law touches all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, some more, some less. I am glad that it has been changed since the last five years have shown that it has not been implemented exactly the way it was imagined, even though the government has adopted a proposal and plans for normative activities each year. We also heard from the secretary of state how much was the percentage of the execution so that she would not look back on it because she also stated that this law must improve such results. It would not be repeated in the part where it has said what it is changing, which is the objective, which is very good because it has explained other than what we have in the draft law of this reduction and everything else, perhaps only in this proposal where there is an obligation to carry out an impact assessment in a particular part, but that it is not necessary and when the law is passed in order to confirm international contracts and to implement the regulations of other binding EU acts. And that applies to all of us. And it would be good to make an impact assessment after that. We are all witnessing recent tax reforms where there was not one whole and that is exactly how, in accordance with this law, certain assessments of the effects of the regulations have been made, which is why certain things have happened to us that have not been very happy. Here we have a reduction in VAT on children's seats, I'm wondering how much this has affected our birthright or our parents' help? We had a VAT reduction situation for certain agricultural raw materials or seeds and re-promaterials, a lot of this was actually talked about by the happiest farmers. One small part felt it because it has lower imput prices, but I must say that these are not farmers who produce for the market but for their own needs. The others who are in the VAT system didn't feel it at all, but now that they're asked when they're being calculated by VAT, why I have such a little pre-tax. So because you paid him less, because now you paid 13 not 25, so they stayed the same because the price of his output remained taxing 25%, come on, the milk was five as it was and there was nothing changed there. If no assessment had been made, it was also because we simply took all the chapters from the nomenclature groups and included them in the releases, which is why what happened recently to us here and presented to us a colleague from HSS that we have seed barley of 25% and seeds of ricinus of 13% because no good preparation was made. And what concerns me most about all of this is that we are constantly talking about creating a favourable business environment, however, we are all our farmers, our little craftsmen, all of our businessmen are creating together with all the citizens who are employed to live better in that country. And that's why when I suggested not to go through an emergency procedure for some laws, it still bothers me that one investor gave up the investment precisely for the reason that the reinvested profit or the release of that part was abolished. And it wouldn't be anything, it's being abolished, but in the 6th month, the Ministry of Finance gave an interpretation to his inquiry, so that you can move on to remain a reinvested profit is recognised as a relief and for the next year. So this is the same Ministry of Finance, which is later on on my amendment that we referred to in front of HNS, we cannot give up the need to start applying from 1.1.2017, and we only suggested 1.1.2018 for the reason that they gave such an interpretation to that investor. So if there were an assessment of these effects and it was well reflected in all segments, there would be no such situation. And that's why on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, I can say that in our first reading we will support this because we support everything that makes the law better and that we live in a better environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33543	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative, a pardoned two replicas, the first of a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33544	Thank you very much, here's my colleague Mrsic and I are talking about something, but of course my replica is not going to my colleague Mrssic, but to Mrs. Mak for her debate where I absolutely agree, and once again I appeal to the government not to go from the entire fiscal position and explain certain laws, so you said about VAT, seats, baby food, everything. Unfortunately, there are no thousand euros for our young parents. They say why does a child pay after being born? Because HDZ double-crossed him for 1,000 kuna. So here's a joke, unfortunately, I'd like to say a little bit more demographically to young people because of what, I think that there's a common effort for everyone, and that's why I support what my colleague at least said that all proposals from the Ministry of Demography and family are just like this, to see what we expect, what our young people can expect, or people who have, want more children, that our demographic policy is improved, not that in elections like HDZ did we announce 1000 euros, and that never happens, but to do something to make Croatia's demographics move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33545	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33546	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, thank you for your question. In fact, there have been more findings that I could get back to because I have many other situations and things coming to me in the meantime, but I agree with everyone that you've replicated. And of course, please give me that as soon as possible to bring this law to life and that we really know, that all people in Croatia know what the law is giving them, what are the consequences of their lives, of their families, of their households, of their associations, of everything. And I ask that it be made available to the public, perhaps not only in this part of the e-consultation but also in other media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33547	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33548	Dear fellow Members, at the end of your debate, you have associated me with a situation that happened here regarding your amendments, related to and part of the amendments I wrote in front of the club in the debate on tax legislation. And what I have to say is, what you've experienced, because the amendment was right, that's what I experienced in the income tax part when I asked for different tax arrangements for pensioners who receive part of their pension from abroad. But you know as well as I do that the government worked in a time teat that you yourself blamed. And of course there was no time for the government to meet to discuss amendments, which should not happen. It's about clean, technical amendments that were completely correct. Thus, the adoption of regulations can also contribute to the quality and contribution of this proposed law, the way in which it is adopted, respect for diversity and also to the indication of technical failures. Namely, the tax administration gave this explanation regarding the reinvested profit as it gave three pages of the text for paying taxes on... which are received by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are fully covered by the amendments proposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that an ex-post mind, I still thank the government for such an approach because it benefits the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but it doesn't have to be that way. In a more casual atmosphere, we can make better laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33549	Thank you very much. The Honorable MP Makar will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, thank you, colleague Hrelja. Apparently, my debate moved each and every one of us to find some of the situations that we were in because of the non-implementation of this law because this law existed before but very little was done by it. This improvement, this reduction of time, this more familiarization of the public and sensitization of the public with all the problems and rights that the public has, to know, to influence it, to make its observations, to direct through e-consultation, whether through their associations in which it works if it applies. Our businessmen, here we have heard a lot of criticism, as far as the Chamber of crafts is concerned, I believe that this increase in membership fees that you have now raised for this year will take more care of your craftsmen because it is precisely that she has done so all these years but may now contribute to the fact that she has more employees and will also contribute to being better informed about all the laws. And from all the debates, it turns out that this law is good for us, that every improvement in it means a lot to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33551	Thank you very much. And the last Club of Representatives is that of the Independent Lists. The first one will be spoken by distinguished representative Ivana Lesandric-Ninčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33552	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs. Reflecting on how laws are passed in the Republic of Croatia and other regulations, we must unfortunately conclude that in this respect, the concepts under which regulations can be made at any time, anywhere, and everyone. And their effects are dominated by the attitude in which the effects will be shown in the application of the regulations that we will change and supplement if necessary. It is also clear that there is a trend in our legislation that dominates the burden of form and the design of a normative part of a regulation, with almost systematic neglect and preparatory actions that should precede the making and adoption of any regulation. For this reason, we can consider that Croatian legislation is generally at a low level in terms of content and legal technical terms, and subject to numerous and frequent changes which result in genuine uncertainty and predictability of the legal order. In this sense, the law we are discussing today is the first of a series of steps we need to take to improve the general environment in which regulations arise, and to ensure that the laws and other regulations in the Republic are adopted carefully, bearing in mind that increasing their quality will create conditions for economic, social and overall social progress. First of all, I would like to commend the government's insistence on improving the existing formal system of assessment of the effects of the regulations, because this legislative proposal clearly expresses its firm political will and intention to improve the quality of Croatian legislation in the broadest sense. In doing so, some of the proposed legal solutions deserve special attention. Initially, here it is necessary to highlight and praise the intention to write more precisely and carefully the important effects that should be considered when making a single regulation, but above all to set out groups of addresses that must be considered especially when assessing the effects of regulations such as entrepreneurs, OPGs or family farms, cooperatives, families and households, workers and pensioners, consumers, Croatian defenders and other minorities. Furthermore, it is important for our economy to make formal part of the regulation impact assessment process the text of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. SMEs test, and to apply the standard method of measuring the administrative cost for the economy, the standard cost methodology... The seriousness of this intention is also witnessed by the preparatory activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by establishing an independent service for improving the business climate in the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, which will monitor the application of these provisions. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] It is also necessary to welcome, as a separate paper, the introduction of an Institute for Compensation of the Impact Assessment of Regulations which ensures that a law which has not been subject to a previous impact assessment must be subject to a specific regime of assessment of their effects after entry into force. I note that we recently applied this institute to the adoption of tax laws at the end of last year, and I will be pleased to consider the findings that will be determined for the application of the same laws. However, although this bill retains a number of improvements that will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the overall quality of domestic legislation, some of its shortcomings should be highlighted. In the first place, I would like to draw attention to the overarching of the proposal with regard to the regulations which are primarily covered by it. The proposal places particular emphasis on the laws which, however, are not the most numerous in our legal order, although the laws are an important part of the domestic legal order, in the light of their legal power, should be kept in mind that the laws are normally governed by only the most important legal facts and that, with a high level of abstraction, in detail, the legal regulation of certain legal matter is left to sublegal enforcement rules whose holders are government, ministry or other state administration bodies or legal persons with public authority. Infrequently, these implementing regulations are prescribed by address obligations which have a negative impact on the business climate, social protection, the environment and the like. That it is thus demonstrated by the net published register of non-taxable duties published by the Ministry of Economy and from which it is obvious that tax duties, so-called. parafiscal intrusions are often precisely determined by sublegal regulations. Therefore, the opinion of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is that this proposal must include, until the second reading, all the regulations which are adopted by all central government bodies, with the notion of a state body to be interpreted in the broadest functional and not formal sense. It is not acceptable for us to apply impact assessment procedures to some law enforcement regulation depends on the full discretion of its authorised consignor. Another important lack of this law concerns the absence of a commitment to a lot in the Croatian Parliament to show an assessment of the effects of the regulations on individual laws. We believe that it would be extremely useful for representatives in the Croatian Parliament to have a statement of impact assessment for the laws under discussion. In this regard, we MPs must also consider future changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in order to ensure that all facts and information on the proposal under discussion is available in the debates in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, here I want to talk about a particular problem that we are facing in the work and in the practice of the Croatian Parliament. It is therefore a retroactive action of certain legal provisions. I regret to conclude that lawmakers are very often unaware of the fact that they are proposing a law that has certain retroactive effects, and when it is a fact and known, they rarely explain how the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires it. Retroactivity as a fact in the Croatian legal order occurs too often even though the Constitution provides for an exception, so I believe that in some ways in this law it is necessary to prescribe an obligation for professional holders to make regulations to pay particular attention to the occurrence of retroactiveness because it is in the strictest way disrupting the security of objective legal order. We can also find another argument here to support the assessment of the effects of the regulations as a obligation to be subject to the widest circle of regulations, and not only to laws, given that the rules of less legal power must never have feedback. In this regard, I believe that even in the future in the Croatian Parliament, we need to deal more closely with the problem of retroactivity and to make more specific differences when we can see such action as justified. Finally, the Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists proposes that, as an instruction, the applicants and the legislators be identified as the possibility of prescribing the compensation for the impact assessment of the regulations. Based on such ex post analyses, all involved in the making and adoption of certain regulations, including the widest public, could, at a reasonable time after the application of the rules, be familiar with its real effects. This would contribute to the development of responsibility for the regulation and allow further transparency of the work of the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33553	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33554	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivana, in your debate that was content and comprehensive, I noticed one thing I'm going to say hello to, but I'm asking you to stick to it at the MOST club, it's about retroactiveness. So here are some concerned people, entrepreneurs who say that you want to introduce new excise duties in the energy sector, not on Mira's wind power plants, but on all renewable energy sources. So that's something that I now recognize from your debate that you don't advocate, that excise duties are introduced to people who have entered investment where there are big margins absolutely need to be seen, but in some parts of energy there are no margins and they're not such margins as they might be somewhere. So let's just hope that when this is true, Mr. Dobrovic's announcement that you will react and say that it is not retrograde or retrograde, retroactively well-introced certain measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33555	Thank you. The distinguished representative Lesandric-Ninčević will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33556	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, I'd just say that we won't be taught by experience on your part, lead the team to what we say we won't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33557	Thank you. Now we will move to individual debates and the first will speak to the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33558	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Imported applicants. The assessment of the effects of the legal certainty regulations is very important and these changes are going towards it. However, in order to ensure legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia in order to go both economic development and market development and the full development of some kind in the Republic of Croatia in order to move these regulations, and norms should be equal for all, which is the essence of the Constitution and guaranteed. And the fact is that Croatian citizens believe in the legal system, and mainly in legal norms. in the laws and regulations that citizens in everyday life see are not even. So I mentioned earlier in the replica that when this Parliament passed the law and the laws were written, the laws were clear, but in application they are not equal. So I mentioned a banal example earlier, but a literal example describing the application of the law is that these amendments to the laws and effects might be somewhat in application of what will happen, but what is written on paper in reality is not respected, this example as I said to my grandmother who sold her garlic or onions. In Dalmatia, we say, it is closed what it has been given for a month, and we know that those who privatized telecommunications, those who say legally, and not legally is alienated by those who are White Nights, INA, everything they have done to our market, they are free and that is a very bad message. Those who hold the Croatian economy do... the development of the economy and that is the future and the blood flow, only if we talk about Agrokor concert that 40% of GDP simply does not apply to Todorovic this same law as it did and how much it squeezed the entire economic system, not only by its guilt, but again, to all the political elites that allowed this system to lead to the Croatian state and the entire economic system at the moment it is located. So now we have 120,000 people who depend on work, depending on work and the future of the whole country. In my opinion, all the laws that are written if the Constitution is not respected, and if they are only written to be written, and that in the application of one of the masters, they are not what is visible, then they say that all these regulations that have been passed are invaluable. It may be easiest for EU directives to prescribe laws, all laws because I hear the word here as we enter the EU when we enter the EU that everything will bloom that everything will be wonderful and then every day we get here we see the EU directive and we rewrite it by calling on Western liquids legally and as a good example. However, the fact is we bring it in, but the law is inapplicable and inconclusive and we have thousands of examples of these. But the most important thing is that equality which, at this point, and that legal uncertainty in these regulations that is obvious in the field of application. Here we can talk about good laws on good norms, norms that are content because there are sanctions, but these sanctions are not the same for all in administrative proceedings or in court. And if we have a corrupt complete system, then what kind of message is that to someone who wants to enter the economy of a small man? He'll go to Ireland. If we have allowed only one person in the country or two, three persons to hold the complete Croatian economic circulation in their hands, on not realistic grounds because when Agrokor coughs Slavonia is shaking, all suppliers, all producers, and numerous and destroyed. And of course, the foreign banks are now using this moment and wanting to become the owners of it and find a solution for 120,000 people, while Todorici and Mudrinici were provided and many of those tycoons who went through the whole process. For all our former generations, some older than you created, they handed it over to the foreign hands. To talk about regulations just like what's on paper, I don't think it's enough, which is why this law is good. But is he finally applicable? Whether these effects will be, whether the assessments of these effects will be feasible. The message should be possible for our citizens to believe in the regulations and laws that this Parliament is making, however, they were absolutely in fact inadmissible both in terms of economic and social and environmental issues in all institutions on a number of issues. It's just that these laws are inapplicable. If we're talking about ecology, then it's a waste mafia, it's very active, if it's energy, then it's very important because someone could have done that in HEP, very easily, based on the research of HEP, to open up as a director of a private company, where the project was working, and now, of course, it's with the mass project or the Peruč thermal power plant, where we have terrible conflicts of interest of unprecedented proportions, but that green energy we pay the benefits to someone instead of 20 lips of that energy, instead of HEP, we favour as a state-owned company that could strengthen it. We give it through these former CEOs of HEP or whoever they are, and HEP paid for the research. And on the market they're of course ahead. Over a young man who wants to deal with energy, who wants to deal with green energy. Or let's just say if someone wants green, if someone wants to have panels and on their roofs, then the quota can't get into households to increase us and get to those green percentages of green energy. Here's an example in my neighborhood of a man who set up panels, electrically, of course, he can't get, he can't get into the quota, and he's going to fall into those wind power plants very easily because in 2015, under social criteria, this measure is being taken where the wind power plants are, i.e. Energy paid for the wind, subsidized not more than 3 times real so that Croatian citizens, but everything goes, goes into foreign pockets so that the Croatian citizen will have to pay out of his pocket again or this year he will have to secure the budget once again billion and a half kuna for the decision of the Government of Zoran Milanovic and, of course, in his term, I am sorry that he is not Mr Vrdoljak here but it is in two, for this year and for the next year 2018. billion and 600, for 2018 billion and 900. And a citizen, usually for renewable electricity sources, installed everyone on the roofs, set everything by the regulations, just didn't get into the quota. We work means those regulations against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So in this part too, see how much damage has been done to the Croatian citizen and in the interest of foreign investors who will have to pay the citizens again in the end. So once again if the grandmother is responsible for the kilo of port she sold at the market as an economic crime that she did and those who all hold onto the throat of the Croatian economy, completely, the whole circulation, they laugh at us because they have secured themselves instead of being in dungeons and instead of alienating their entire property. The grandmother certainly wouldn't have to sell that bow, but her grandchildren would have worked in Croatia and would not have gone to Ireland and other countries. As a result, this law shows progress, it shows that legal certainty will be assessed because it means effects in the reality of these laws, meaning that they are not unrealistic laws, prescribed by European directives, so that we become bigger as Europeans than we are Europeans. We want to prove ourselves to these Brussels officials that we are, indeed, officials, that we are, are we Europeans because we are part of Europe but we do not have to be servants of other people's masters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33559	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33560	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro, in your debate, you mentioned many things and some of you stopped mentioning what I was pleased with, so you no longer need to speak in the context of the government where I was about people leaving Croatia because you probably realized yourself that this was not exclusively up to that government because in the last year more people left Croatia while you were in a position than in the 4 years of Milanovic's government went away. So in one year 2016, unfortunately. And that's why more people left Croatia than in 4 years before that. And that's why we don't have to play it politically, it's an accident, and we have to work together to change things. And it's a good thing you stopped making that argument. You will likely be able to correct certain things with experience, additional knowledge, and other things over time. But we can have whatever law we want on assessing the effects of the regulations, unless there are laws, unless there are reforms. Here I took a look here at our agenda and I noticed two things that MOST suggested, among them the Law on Amendments of the HRT, that is to say, the charge of HRT alone and not to charge the lawyers anymore. But what our citizens care about is what's with the 60 kuna subscription. Why didn't you do it? Well, that was announced a month ago as a request and an ultimatum of MOST to cut the subscription to HRT. I don't see any reason that it could have been written in a few days, that an emergency procedure could have been made and that people in Croatia had long since two weeks ago been able to pay a subscription to a smaller one. So if there's no suggestion, then every law on the impact assessment of regulations is too high. Give what you stood for this is the HRT less subscription you submit. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Why are you afraid of HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33561	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33562	Comrade Maras, you really as the most effective minister of the 1990s, I've repeated this more, you've really had a chance to stop your regulations and by acting down economically, the departure of people. You didn't do that. You did not do this, but you favored foreign investors on the health of Croatian citizens. You've noticed that well, you've noticed that as far as wind power plants are concerned, wind energy. green energy. And really when we talk about criminal law, it needs to be changed, which is at the expense of the citizens. And that law is not the same. As far as HRT is concerned, a man was appointed a month ago, and we expect him to be reduced to 60 kuna as soon as possible. But you will never remember that during your director who was your Mr. Radman did very nice things in Croatian radio and even hotels in Slavonia or Slovenia, I do not know that I would not make a mistake in Slovenia, in another country had pleasant, beautiful, produced major production effects of Croatian broadcasting. So, according to this, the major damage is to the HRT that was done to manage the time of you and the predecessor. And it can really save citizens and a better programme with a cut in TV subscription. And you had a chance, and I'm sorry you didn't take advantage of it, and you had no intention of taking advantage of it except listeningly to the click you raised your hand in the Parliament and in the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33563	Thank you. Honorable representative Gordan Maras has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33564	Article 238(5)
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33565	There's no point in that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33566	Okay, what do you call it? Alinea Okay. Alinea 5. So Mr. Bulj has demeaned and insulted me and I ask you to warn him or that Mr. Bulj tells whom I have affected by foreign investors means personally me. [[Intruder Reiner: Alinea.]] That's what he said in his debate that I was the one who shot the foreign investors. I'm asking you to warn him or that he says it in public in front of everyone. I don't want to hear any more talk like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33567	My colleague Maras, I estimate that this is not an injury to the Rules of Procedure because if any alleged correct or incorrect which is spoken here, and most often, many incorrect ones are said to be spoken, so you too today have some incorrect allegations and even which could be characterized as insults, then in fact everyone would always say that freedom of speech is narrowed down. Therefore, I estimate no injured Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Bulj has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Can I get you anything that's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33568	I didn't think so, you warned him. But here's a colleague who broke...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33569	I haven't warned anyone yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33570	He broke Article 238 because I didn't demean anyone, but I said the fact that my colleague Maras was a member of the government that increased the drive for green energy, and we all know that, we're all witnesses. And the Croatian public knows that the wind energy has increased...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33571	Okay, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33572	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, you may have already noticed that we are passing laws and, in principle, most of the articles of these laws are something we want to change and support. But in reality, one or two exceptions always happen, something that goes under the carpet, and when it goes through, we see a negative effect. And that's when you were talking about the question I don't know those vouchers that were for electricity who would say we don't want to accept it, who'd say they don't want to help the most socially endangered groups. And one is a representative, one is the only one who has warned of the adverse consequences we now see here. What concerns me even more, and that is, when we pass a law that is good, in which it is all agreed that we should leave room for sublegal acts that are then made by ministers, they make lower levels of decisions that derivate a lot of what is good. And in the end, we have negative effects again. Therefore, we must jointly take a position, not only to assess the laws that are passed here in the Parliament, but also to sublegal acts should be, to pass through that procedure. I am also in favour of this particular office that was proposed to be in the Ministry of Economy, because I was Minister of Economy and I know how much we had in the consultation coordination and with Mrs Pogačić about it. I think it would be much more effective to have her around her office somewhere, at the government, because she'd be more powerful. I'm not diminishing the power of the Ministry of Economy, but I know what it would be like to know that there were a lot of such difficult situations where we tried to solve it and that it took a lot of talking. And I think the prime minister, with his strength, can guarantee the changes that are necessary. And what I'd like to mention, and that's to see that something is sometimes being prepared and when the law is passed, some regulation is then we see that it is actually being retroactively passed. So what someone prepared for me when I'm ready to change the rules now, and maybe in future time you'll find that's not good, but by then I'll take my chance, retroactiveness is also important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33573	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33574	My colleague Panenic, he would agree with you that when this body is brought in, the Council of the Greatest Body in the Republic of Croatia laws to then go under acts, i.e. that the ministries have the power to adopt various regulations and other acts which may fully amend the law. So here I can think of one very important issue for citizens, which is for example. antenna pillars or base stations where when a citizen builds, expands the balcony or some terrace must also get the consent of neighbours and change the plan completely and cost it, however, for setting up base cell teleopers wherever they want and whenever they want. It's mostly foreign teleoperators, we know they have an absolute monopoly, they set them wherever they want and whenever they want, without any obligation, without any consent, without any compensation to the designers, whether they want to be in spatial plans. Local self-government doesn't have any authority to stop, so he's got the law right with them. Until such laws are the same according to those teleopers who have the highest profits in the Republic of Croatia per capita, higher per capita than in their own countries, and our citizens for every change of any object they have to ask for permits, spatial plans change, many consents. So this is the inequality and mistrust of our citizens in the adoption of laws and the legal system. Until such things change, they will not be mature in Croatia for the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33575	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Steve Cule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33576	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, in your presentation, you spoke of both laws and green energy, I will begin the exhibition like this, by replicating you. A small man, a small farmer of the Croats, may not be able to cheat through the law or through what he does, but he knows how to detect fraud or someone else tells him how he is wronged and deceived. Many laws have been passed in Croatia for one day only to please certain political groups, a certain minister, who in his portfolio would infuse the fraud for his personal property benefit. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Minister Jakovina, who is one of the undertakers of Slavonia, who comes from this Slavonia and has come to this Croatian Parliament as well as many just to get to Zagreb and to get away from this Slavonia that they never seem to love or want or appreciate. When you talk about green energy, we're going to talk about green energy, bioenergy, so when the competition goes down, then according to locality, one item to fight to fight that competition to get through, there goes locality. So when it's determined that we have a friend who doesn't have a locality, then the item of the cattle fund is invented, and then the cattle from one farm are transferred to another farm that was founded in the meantime, then the third farm, and that's how thousands and thousands of hectares of Slavonia get there. The local one who reported to the peasant he did not pass, the entrepreneur came from Zagreb, opened the bioenergy, destroyed hundreds of jobs, destroyed hundreds of small OPGs and he has a bioenergy in Slavonia, serving one or two men and several combines who collect that green mass for his bioenergy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33577	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33578	I'd agree with you, so there's been a monopoly of certain groups of amendments to the law for one day or a retro for two days, and it's really done a lot of damage in this case to Slavonia where we see that it's a burned country. I was going to Vinkovce yesterday and passing by looking at no more cattle like it used to be, you can see that it feels this void, that it's simply a burned country because of the law, means selective application of the law that suits individuals so literally, you said well, by passing the laws for one day and to call the competition, it goes into that quota. And, of course, our farmer who was a farmer, who was doing well in the Republic of Croatia, that he was simply neither familiar with that law nor had the opportunity to be familiar. And that is a mistrust, and that is what makes it impossible for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and that is what the demographic picture in the Republic of Croatia is a key problem and we are among the five, six countries that have the most endangered demographic image in the world, certainly in the EU. Surely the laws we make must be public, transparent and all rules and any other decisions made by the Ministry. The lower bodies must be clear, they must all be familiar, not hidden. If this is the purpose of this law to send a picture to our citizens to believe in the legal system and equality under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then it is good if it is applicable. If there are still laws and amendments to the legal rules for individuals they will continue to be monopolies and will continue to legalize our crime, and these peasants will have to shut down their farms and go to jail for what... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33579	Thank you. Now, in an individual debate, we will have the opportunity to hear again the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will begin my debate by thinking that in the future we should not only do an assessment of the effects of legislation but also decisions or regulations made by, for example, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because right now, as we discuss this law here, the Croatian public is shocked by the new collection prepared by the Government of Andrija Plenkovic. Since the first April in the Republic of Croatia, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and tourists will pay 10% more toll for the highways we built. The only thing we get from the government of MOST and HDZ and Andri Plenkovic are gatherings that do not control the end, gas, highways, electricity, uncertainty. Is there going to be a rundown? Will concrete assistance to Croatian citizens appear? I, too, ask here to include in the second reading of this law the regulation and decision assessment of the Croatian Government's regulations and decisions on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be made. Whoever travels to Mr. Bulj in Sinj, of the 1.4th toll will pay 20 kuna more. What kind of battle is this, Mr. Bull, for the citizens of the Cetina region? Do you want everyone, that no one travels the highways anymore, is that MOST's policy? Is this the policy of the HDZ government, to reactivate the old road Zagreb-Split, what we have been driving for years and what is essentially the realization of our dream to connect Dalmatia with the central Croatian, Slavonia, highway? And now our citizens who finance it, and then of course you're wondering who's benefiting from it? Well, those who finance those highways, those who built "calmetines", your coalition partner. And now our citizens watching us here are wondering why? Croatian construction, Croatia financed, why Andrej Plenkovic, HDZ and MOST raise tolls by 10%? Why is the gas picking up? Why did we allow MOL to earn hundreds of millions of kuna more on the burden of HEP? Why? What's that interest, which tycoon, which bank, Mr. Bull? Why don't you fight these things specifically? Here's a chance. Don't let them pick up the toll. You're going down for the mayor, how are you going to explain that to people? Why do tolls go up 10%? It's not a policy that wants good neither Dalmatia nor our citizens. It is therefore necessary to introduce an assessment of the effects of the regulations on both the regulations and the decisions of the Government. Because our citizens have been trembling every week since the government's session, some new gathering. And the excuses that really are, I'd say historical, that is, they've been moving for decades back, but from that our people have absolutely nothing. And that's why this law will make sense if it's absolutely complete with these decisions. Of course, it will make sense if anything is proposed because if nothing is proposed there is nothing to do. If it's said that we're going to cut the HRT by 20 kuna and it's not done, then how are we going to evaluate the effects? If it's harshly said we'll free the citizens of 300 million kuna and release 2,000 citizens for 200 and release 600,000 citizens for kuna, two or 20, then it's not the purpose of this law, we have no data, we have no bases, we have nothing to discuss. The Croatian public is deluded by group numbers. Or, if we say, we're in charge of the most favourable ever in London and we keep quiet that this is the worst responsibility except for Greece in the EU, what is this information? So we need data that will give us a basis for quality decision-making and for quality discussion. If we say we're fighting for craftsmen, we can't support the mayor of the HOK who takes money from the craftsmen in his pocket. We lack credibility, credibility we lack concrete suggestions that will help our citizens to live better. I will once again say, I support absolutely this law, I think it can only make good Croatian legislation and make decisions in the public interest. I think it will take some more time for our institutions, i.e. the ministries and the public sector to accept this dynamic, to catch that public debate at all. Because when we see the laws and who participates in the public debate, so OK, this law is not crucial, but we will also have the law for, in connection with compensation for violations of competition rights. And then when you look at who was involved in the public debate, you see that a large company has been involved in a de facto business that is interested in making proposals and a gentleman and that's it. So for one so important law that one company and one gentleman participates, it is really insufficient and shows that we have not yet developed a culture among citizens, among entrepreneurs to participate, to help them with their proposals to be more quality. But I'm going to say a little bit later that the proposals and the draft laws are also involved in certain law houses, lobbying houses, it's something for me that shouldn't be a practice but obviously happens and obviously, and if nothing is pointed out, that we know who was doing it, so we can react. That's better than saying someone was involved as a lobbyist in making the law so it wouldn't be mentioned anywhere. But I think, on the professional side, our public service has high-quality employees who can do the job without the help of lawyers' lobbying offices. So here, in the end, I want this law to be extended once again to these acts that I just said, decisions and regulations of the government so that they have a rounded whole and that our citizens do not experience the shock of being given to us by Andrej Plenkovic, the HDZ Government and the Most, such as toll collection. I am sure that people today who have read it, and especially from Dalmatia who most likely travel on that road are not satisfied and I find it strange that people from MOST especially from these parts support such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33581	Thank you. We have a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33582	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I must now conclude I am truly sorry that, in the term of your government, you were not proposed by the Vice-President of the Government to lead the coordination for the economy, because you presented a number of problems. And if you'd represented the government's interests in coordination with that force, we definitely wouldn't have come into a situation right now to repair the numerous damages that have taken place. At that time, we would not have a problem with the increase in electricity prices to compensate for renewable sources, we would not have a problem with HOK and HGK memberships because you would have managed to resolve it from that position. And I'm sorry that, and in your position, it came to divide the economy into a small and medium-sized enterprise, because now I see that you have had that minister's office to have the power in your hands to solve it. And given that I worked in the government of Prime Minister Oreshkovic, I know that this would certainly solve a number of problems, so that we would not practically deal with this short term with the resolution of a number of problems that are coming, which are still here, and that is something that needs to be pointed out, that when the government is formed, such a decision is made, that we do not have quality ministries, that we do not have quality coordinators who can follow the policies of the prime minister and government then there are a number of problems that are later being solved, we see later. And that's one effect of the regulations that here were supported by your club of representatives in the government when you were minister and from those who supported you. In the end, it is good to say and to be self-critical, that there was simply no vision then and we should be self-critical, that we cannot correct at sufficient speed the numerous gaps that have occurred in the past time, that we will need time and support both of you and you and refer to the procedure all that is positive to support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33583	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33584	Thank you very much. Mr Panenić, the first thing you recognize is the potential, but also the second thing you don't despair about and that you give your hand right away. I'm glad you didn't fall into despair and call on me to support the quality suggestions I'm going to make and you're going to support them. Thank you for that in advance. So here's the law itself, so the MPs' club probably sends in the HGK procedure this week. So I can count on support, you can't probably be on behalf of the MOST club, but in your personal life, it'll cheer me up. I'd be glad to. If you want Mr. Panenic, you can sign if you want. Here you will have the honour of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and Tomislav Panenić will propose the Law amending the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. And I see that with approval you follow my presentation and here I will bring it to you personally for your signature. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33585	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33586	Comrade Maras, you were talking about a highway pick-up. I didn't know, I don't know if you remember, perhaps you were the Minister of the Government of the Law on Privatisation, the beginning of privatisation, which means that at the session of 11.6.5., the government agreed to launch the process of unbundling the Croatian highway Rijeka – Zagreb. So the first step in privatising Croatian highways was taken, and Transport Minister Siniša Hajdaš Doncic announces others, so you remember fortunately here we had the union then, because we know that you were familiar with it, you were a minister, I guess you heard that somewhere more than 4 billion have Croatian highways and that they are really in trouble. You were going to do it by privatizing, and in one part you did it, you gave it to strangers that basically what our citizens built, that they now have profit. I don't think what you've done is a good solution. Of course it should be preserved in the Croatian hands of the Croatian highway, but what you did at the time went to privatisation, I personally signed it against privatisation when the union inside the Croatian highways, fortunately, stopped the process that you initiated. As for gas collection, you said here that Chikotic would collect gas, Dobrović, this, that. We see the results that it hasn't been collected. Unfortunately, we still have damage to the wind in billions of kuna. I'm sorry you didn't react then, but I really think that the law and the law's effectiveness and the legislator's intention will be in reality applicable, and that's the topic to which you should return, not to talk about what you wanted to put in your hands. These are Croatian highways as the case of Rijeka – Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33587	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33588	It means everything that this is also true what you're saying, and it's not that we wanted to give anything to strangers or I don't know who, it didn't happen, all that this is true what you're saying. And you're sorry about some bad move or the intention of a bad move, which is why you're sorry, but you're not sorry about the bad move that Andrej Plenkovic and the government made today, to raise 10% of the toll, which is why you're not sorry. Why don't you comment on that? So you're sorry about something that didn't happen, be careful how sensitive you are. You're probably worried about me, so because of my emotions you're sorry that something didn't happen, but you're not sorry about hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens of which tens of thousands from the Split-Dalmatia County who will pay their toll 20 kunas higher than what they paid up to 1.4 you don't regret, you don't even mention it, as if it didn't happen, and you want to be mayor down there. So how do you take care of your people? Well, let everyone who sees you on the freeway, 'cause Buli 20 won't let you jump the toll. When you see the Bull blow and say you don't agree with the fact that you're jumping a toll of 20 kuna. Miro Bulj 20 kuna will call you. And don't worry about something that hasn't happened, but worry about what Andrej Plenkovic and the HDZ and MOST government are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33589	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by a colleague, Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33590	Article 238 of my colleague Maras speaks of a subject that is not subject to discussion because Miro Bulj is not the subject of a debate to the citizens, but Miro Bulj is aware that exactly his colleague Maras has raised his hand for the Indexation Act, which has been declared by Sinj and Cetitska region and has taken over 30 million kunas. And so when you get to the Cetina region, know that you've driven the young people out of the Cetina region, that that's why there's no pay for the children in maternity care because of you and your decision, because that whole neighborhood and the whole county you've forgotten. You made it from Croatia as south as sad as possible. I know that you as a Zagrebian live well, and those people down there live badly and make fun of people in this way to honk at me. You as a minister have brought this country to the bottom... [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33591	My colleague Bulj, you have now injured the Rules of Procedure because this is not what you said, so please don't let it happen. My colleague Maras, you've done the same damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33592	Yes, Mr. Vice President, that means by establishing a breach of the Rules of Procedure you should give a warning but also a warning. So that's the side A fellow Bull with incredible ease characterizes a man, though I understand that in the absence of arguments. [[I warned her.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33593	Now you're going to keep doing the same thing that I warned my buddy Butts about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33594	But tell me I don't feel sympathy for people in those parts, tell me who I have a family down there, who comes down every year two, three times it's rude. It's rude, please warn and warn Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33595	Now, I've warned my colleague Bull, but what you just said is totally inappropriate. I remind you that yesterday when a colleague distracted you I asked you to shut up, you were greatly appalled as I dared say shut up so you wouldn't be disturbed. And what did you tell your colleague Bull now? Come on, people, we're holding some level of communication and parliamentaryism here. Let's not get too offended. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33596	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, we can do one little test, here we go to the highway of the Zagreb bypass and there you will see an anthill, you will see a swarm of cars and one car after the other in columns and then we will get to the charging house and then we will see how these columns turn on the old road, either for Karlovac, either for Goric, anywhere else, and then on that same highway there are maybe two or three cars. Of those three cars, two of the parliamentary deputies, one is possibly from the government because they get toll returns and they don't care how much that toll is. It is interesting to know that one Slovenia has twice as many highways as Croatia and twice as many revenues. Why? Because he's got vinjets. Our government like you said instead of following positive examples, it raises toll prices on highways that no one will ever ride again. It's a good thing you mentioned the roads so-called. Calmet's pre-election road, we remember it was before the election. The question arises who issued the building permit for the Pelješki bridge so that the building permit would be annulled and 250 million kuna works failed? So who bears responsibility for 250 million kunas from Croatian budgets that have been thrown into the wind for the Pelješki bridge that is now being built from the beginning on a new route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33597	The Honorable Representative Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33598	Thank you very much. I honestly if the government offered a systematic solution to the charging of roads and tolls and to make additional revenues, but not across the back of our citizens. They're supposed to work and motivate people to drive those roads but they don't do it by picking up a toll of 10%. Which is why we do not introduce for Croatian citizens vinjet that one who drives during the year pays less toll. Which is why someone who comes to Croatia on the outside, from Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland, has more benefit than our citizens. So when someone comes here as a foreigner who has not participated in the construction and does not own, it is not a wealth that is rich in Germany, it is in the same status as our citizens from Zadar, Split, Sibenik. Because our citizens get the same... once a year because they don't have toll money, everyone goes the old road. Not to mention, fortunately, we forgot those black spots at Krnjak behind Karlovac where every year, until there was a highway, there were 10, 15, 20 people killed in traffic accidents. So is that the message of Andrej Plenkovic, HDZ and MOST driving along the old road, be more insecure? Look on the A1 freeway tourist shows, so people don't have the money to drive. I really don't understand those moves, especially if they don't solve this problem in the long run. Believe me, now they've collected 10%. Remember these words, next year they will collect another 10%. Because this is an ad hoc measure that solves nothing, because this is a solution to the problems that accumulated during the construction when "kametin" was being built and 4x was more expensive road than it was supposed to be, and now all Croatian citizens have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33599	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33600	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you delight me today. How much of your oblivion, that's terrible. Why did you raise your hand as Minister of the 1st of the Year to collect tolls of 15%? Whose back did that go over? 1.6.2 highways in Croatia collected 15%. Are you listening to me? Why was that normal for you back then? Was he a minister in the government? What's with the hypocrisy? Why was it normal for you to enter the monetization process and spend 10 million kunas on some consultants, you wanted to sell those highways, the people rebelled. We have a referendum, we don't give our highways. You dropped out of the government in 30 seconds about what you've been selling us stories here for three years. And now a great deal of concern, a lot of concern. That's terrible. But he forgot he raised his hand by 15% toll increase. Why was it a normal statement from the former finance minister, Mr. Linic, who at one point when he was in debt said, any interest is good if someone wants to give us money. Those interest rates were all above what happened yesterday. Everything was normal. And it was normal for him to grow this debt, public debt, external debt by 80 billion in four years. And when you ask them where you spent the money, there's no answer. And now a great deal of concern. You've recently been divulging about the 25 percent gas collection, it didn't happen. But why talk like that? Well, you were the minister. We're trying to restructure the highways, but I'm sorry this theme went to the highway and it's talking about some other things, about the effectiveness of the regulations. I don't know how long it would take you, Mr. Maras, but it seems to me that given this way you're performing here that you're the first trumpet of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33601	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33602	Well, I know no trumpet would help you. You wouldn't understand anything if it blew up for a year. So on that side, I would warn you of some basic facts. The gentleman is gone. Will you please tell him what they said? Here, please, Mr. Franco, you can, Frankovic, excuse me, pass on your colleagues, first of all, that they can't be thrilled with their forgetfulness. So I haven't met a man in my life who's thrilled to forget. Mr. Boric said he was thrilled how forgetful I am. So that's the first thing that's wrong. Second, we need to look at everything that's happened in history and that's why something's led to something. The roads in Croatia were unfortunately built and collected a kilometer of highways after 2003, we are all witnesses to which we all know why, 4 times, compared to what was built until 2003. If the toll's been collected over the past few years, it doesn't mean she has to collect again. If the gas has accumulated it does not mean that MOL must earn 300, 400 million kuna a year more. It's something to take care of. It's something our citizens want to hear about. Why does MOL have to make 300 million kuna a year, Mr. Boric? Why do our citizens have to pay a toll of 10% if there have already been some gatherings in the past? If they were, I'd say. There's no need to keep it that way, especially when there's no complete solution. So don't be thrilled with the wrong things and don't argue with the wrong things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33603	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Rezimir Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will, of course, only refer to the text of the bill. In the assessment of the situation that you have stated under the bill, you have stated that the recognition and understanding of the importance of the impact assessment of the regulation in the public is not sufficient, but I believe that this recognition and understanding of the importance of the impact assessment of the rules is not present even with the promoter, therefore the promoter. And there's the problem. I think we should especially point out what you stated in your assessment of the situation, and it seems to me that we all agree from the debates so far that the bill is as good as in the first reading. I believe that you will also accept this proposal as a second reading on behalf of the club MOST, which is to deliver and assess efficiency in the delivery of the bill to the Croatian Parliament. This would make it much easier for us and the Assembly as a legislative body to discuss the norm itself, as well as the adoption of laws. In fact, without this assessment of the effects of the regulations, we have a forest of law, a forest of regulations. Neither the best lawyers nor the judges are able to do that anymore, and that's a fact. And I don't think without it, it won't work without application. So here's what I'm saying in layman's terms, this is the law on how to pass the law, but we lack the law on liability for law enforcement. I don't mean those criminal provisions or criminal provisions in the law relating to the individual and the legal person, but I mean those who have proposed the law and who should apply it. So, state bodies. I especially want to point out because of the public that you seem very good at assessing the situation stated that these direct effects through the analysis of direct effects should be paid particular attention to the effects of the economy, labour market, social care, pension system, health care, environmental protection. In particular, protection of human rights as well as protection of competition. I particularly highlight what is a good obligation to assess the direct effects of the draft bill on citizens, in relation to families, households, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is also today's debate, in fact, by fellow representatives, shows, family farms, cooperatives, workers, pensioners, service providers in certain economic branches, Croatian defenders, minorities, social groups with special interests and needs, but I would add that, in particular, when adopting legislation relating to EU directives, they should take special care of the normal and ethical factors of the environment or the population to which the bill applies. In any case, the perception that impact assessment is a formal, procedural and administrative task rather than a paritative step towards better legislation. In any case, I think that this overall debate today shows that the draft law is good. You didn't even have any big remarks. I think it is most important that this proposal be delivered with the bill and we expect it in the second reading, and in person and in the name of our club we will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33605	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33606	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the ministry. So here's what I want to say about this law and this regulation's impact assessment. It says one wise saying that more laws are less justice and I think that in some way we in the Republic sometimes feel that way. We feel that there is no just and just system that solves many doubts, problems, conflicts simply. Long ago, people have tried to organize themselves in the past, and in our rich history, we record these attempts through the many statutes of small communes. I come from Rab Island, for example. The rap statute of 1326 is in a very simple way, in simple terms trying to solve relationships between people in that time, all their rights and duties. And I think that at that time was quite effective. Of course we've made a lot of progress since then, and it can't be compared. However, the fact is that such documents created peace and order in such times and in these smaller places or whole islands or communities themselves. We, on our way to the EU in 10 years, have really changed all of Croatia's legislation. And in those 10 years, of course, civil servants have not only applied, they have also learned how to apply certain legal standards from European legislation in Croatia, make us better, better, more organised. When we closed the last chapters, it was clear that this process would not stop, and today we continue to bring our own legislation into line with everything that EU bodies deliver to us on the basis of week, month, yearly and certainly one law is needed to make it even better and even more quality in this system. Because looking at our laws, and we have heard it here today, really when you ask them what they think about Croatian legislation, the first one is certainly the thought that he's too crazy, means too detailed, too detailed, the norms that kill each other sometimes overlap, more areas overlap, many articles in many laws solve the same problem differently, and of course there is a problem in that part which, and in those who have to apply such laws, which is primarily the judiciary, the system of presses. And of course the mess in the legal space leaves the most space for those who sin and they get the best possible help to exploit such spaces. Because the ones that are okay. working normally, etc. Mostly with them, the judiciary or any other body, and they have no problem. Now that we're looking at what we've been listening to here today and some practice that you've explained in the bill, it's really a little bit incomprehensible to me that it really was, that in 2013, we passed 216 unforeseeable laws, 2014, 2015 and 92 of the unforeseeable laws. You have in three years 400 laws that we discussed in the 7th session of this Parliament, in the 7th session, that were not foreseen at all. What does that suggest? It suggests that there was a government that had no specific clear objectives and each minister apparently did what he thought he needed at that time to leave an impression of the effectiveness of any possibilities created by the laws. And that was interpreted in various ways. 90% of those laws I remember came here by emergency procedure. You have the opposite today, so 90% of all the laws are being discussed in two readings. We changed that. This House gets a different role and we can influence it. So we had laws in those 90% that came by emergency procedure 85% of them in the part where it says, impact assessment on the RS budget, each writing has no impact on the state budget. Watch me get the law in 2012. The law on pre-profit settlements and financial business in which there is no impact on the state budget, says there. So you have the law, I don't know, about financing local self-government units has no effect on the state budget. Of course, it was all my fault because we saw the effects of these very laws, especially of the pre-fashion settlements on the state budget. In 2014 alone, 892 million kunas of tax duties were waived by the state in 542 pre-fashion agreements. And it was a model that still today is acceptable to many who argue on the other hand. We want different and that's why this law is good and we want to set clear standards in how we plan for the whole year, normatively what anyone has to do and how we deliver in the process what we have to discuss here. When we look at the results so we have what needs to be estimated, we have achievements in 2013 of 37.6% in 2014. 32.2%, 2015. 10% of the estimated effects. Of 140 planned estimates conducted 34% in 2015. It is perfection and a government that is still being set as an example for us today as the best ever in the history of the Republic of Croatia. And now you face it on the other side with this government and you see the reaction, they disagree. They didn't agree with tax reform either, they were against, although we went in to free the economy of certain funds, to get a part of the citizens more income, to allow a simpler tax system, a simpler accounting. Everything we've announced has come true. But you have different reactions. We remember the law that the last government passed named for certain persons. Is it because he needs to be appointed on duty, so let's say we have Lex Komadina, whether because he needs someone to protect him, so we have that famous Lex Perkovic or because someone might need to be eliminated from a space he deals with, famous Lex Mamic and others individually. They weren't libile by the laws. I'm telling them to adapt to the individual. I don't think we really need to look back, but what you wrote clearly shows that this law is necessary and that there are differences between governments, but also the seriousness of access to the work you catch. If you want to run this country, it's clear that this law needs to be contributed as well. Because without the rules, without the plans, we see that we are also trying in the Assembly, here we announce at least how long the shadows will last, and here we have problems saying they went back to..., but everything is already written in the agenda and it's known when is the session. Sessions are when it comes to doing jobs and when it is a break for other activities of parliamentary deputies. This law I say is acceptable already in the first reading to me personally, and I think that as little time as you have predicted in view of this consultation with the public where often the public is appearing really and with many remarks, but do not understand what it may be and basic that when we want to change one law or some articles, citizens have their own problem and want to change some other articles of this law so they react, but every remark is rejected and, of course, we re-emerge between the citizens and the authorities because understanding of our system is still not at the level that we would like to see as it is truly over-indulgent. So here I think this law is good and that as far as I've heard it, they'll accept it by now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33607	Thank you. We have more replicas. It is the right of a respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33608	Thank you very much. I am glad that you have noticed exactly the one item that appears on the materials that we receive, which is that it means a certain law, certain, means a document that comes to our consideration, adoption, has no effect on the state budget. But I'd say something must be significantly changed. First, did we ever bring materials to see what that effect was? So these estimates, I never got with these materials, and I think it's okay to really make that assessment of someone who does, and when it does, and this means that we get with these materials, we don't need someone to subfly and speak it or not, but we need to conclude here and make our decision and evaluate it on that basis. And it certainly is one thing that the state budget, it can be directly burdened and what is most often indirect when those who actually contribute by their work by paying taxes to our budget then if we damage them then we have damaged the budget. So someone has to say directly it may not affect the budget but it will have an indirect impact. And even when you mentioned the Act on Pre-demand settlement there we can actually see different repercusions to the state budget. Well, I've already presented the Borov case here where we are, for example. We had that, we didn't actually standardize what pre-warrant settlement means, but so we can leave it to whom it suits. If a state-owned company like Borovo is where he stays in our possession, then banks don't have to give up their claims but only interest. Until, for example. When we get to BADEL, then we take off our pants to give someone who obviously wants to take over the company, actually which is, I'm going to say again at the level of crime. Therefore, we must be consistent with how we protect state property, how we protect all those involved in the effects of the regulations. But we also have a responsibility to stand behind what we're adopting here, we can't just call the last government, we'll agree, there's been a lot of mistakes that we're making right now, but we have to be in this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33609	Dear Representative Josip Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33610	Thank you very much. My colleague Panenić, today with a colleague here from the Parliament, spoke with argument, he raised his hand to increase the toll 15% and all his debate was missed because they simply turned her towards talking about highways and the law was quite different. The assessment of the effects of the regulations or the other part that also follows a law, the assessment of the financial impact, I think that every law and that the Ministry of Finance reacts to it. I also don't think any minister can spend anything he wants right now. So perhaps we could write about an area, such as social welfare or some other areas where sensitive groups of people could write a law that could cost a few billion. But if the finance minister says we don't have, when I see a PFU form, so much money, of course, that such a law could not pass. So the organized state is concerned that all its constituents are functioning normally and any attempt of better or progress which this law certainly is, because in 2015 we adopted in this House if I am not mistaken and the methodology of making laws that come into the Croatian Parliament, which have slightly changed the way the laws should look, come here to the Assembly but do not seem all the laws to respect that methodology as far as I see it, so there are those who accept it and do it according to that methodology but there are ministers or their employees who do not work according to that methodology. And that's my suggestion here's to you that we're all really following it in our own way because there's something that needs to look different now than the laws that we've been discussing. Here's my little suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33611	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I applied for the replica before you mentioned the percentage and the ratio of the number of laws that came in the procedure by emergency procedure compared to the former and current government, i.e. the discussions that were now taking place in the Assembly and which took place 2 years ago, where we discussed almost all the laws by emergency procedure. And that was because of one thing and you said it later that it was, what is the ratio so now I'm not repeating it. But another thing I wanted to say, you mentioned a number of laws that should have been mentioned without this regulation on impact assessment on regulations should have been kept in mind if these laws had any effect at all. So I remembered how much we were doing at the time when the Strategic Investment Projects Act was being passed said that this law would absolutely have no effect on the realisation of strategic investment projects in the Republic of Croatia so that the state would speed up any project to enter into each of the laws necessary for the implementation of a particular project, whether it was the Law on Forests, the Law on Roads, the Law on Construction, the Law on the Sea Good, so the Law on Authorisation, etc., etc., which proved to be incorrect because now, slowly, when we saw that law had not brought us any things, improvements, that nothing has accelerated, that it had written or made a list of these projects, but could not have been speeded up because no civil servant could be based on the Law on strategic investment projects, for example, to act in that law which Lex specialis to him because he had to do so, and that law is important to him, as the basic law as it did in individual proceedings. I therefore believe that this approach to determining whether any law really has an effect, as far as a certain law has an effect, can only be achieved in a quality way. In this way it says that such laws would not be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33613	Thank you. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33614	Thank you very much. We were, me and my colleague Bacic in that term and we kept warning them that they were bad laws and that they would leave the government and that these laws would stop them, that many would bother them, given that they had brought them, when they came into opposition that they would be disturbed, just the laws they had passed, and some rules that they had established. And it's today, visible here. Because we're trying to adapt to a new way and indeed 90% of the law now goes into two readings. And now we have another problem, and now we have objections to the opposition not being able to solve all issues on the agenda, and we still have to discuss the laws. So for the pleasure of the opposition, we will have to discuss everything in this year, the sessions are ongoing and can last and, of course, within the constitutional deadline, and we will deal with it. As far as the law goes, I remember that mountain-mounted law. Look, the Minister of Regional Development and the Deputy Prime Minister are coming. He nakeds the whole law, throws everything out of it and stays inside that people or those who live in the mountain-mounted area can only go to the woods and read forest herbs and fruit under that law. And I say we break that law. Politics did not want it because the SDP would abolish the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas so that it would remain a seal for them. No, let's leave at least one provision even though it's useless. So what I'm proposing really has to solve these problems too, there really is a law that needs to be cut like that because it doesn't contribute absolutely to anything, and it just stands and counts as some number. And then it's no wonder, given the way they acted that 400 laws passed the plan, they didn't plan them at all, and that's why they grew to 80 billion more because they didn't plan anything. And of course the others are surprised. Let's try to work really differently and I think this law is going that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33615	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabine Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Boric, you seem to have slept through the past two, three months and were not in this assembly when one of the key reforms was being made, which is tax reform. Your government proposed it. Of the 15 laws in the tax reform package, 7 had to go through the regulation impact assessment procedure. And the minister himself admitted it and said that you actually broke the law. This is the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act, the Law on Contributions, the Law on Real Estate Tax, the Law on Local Taxes, the Taxes Act, the Act on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles. It's all laws that had to go through the regulation's impact assessment procedure, you went over it, you broke the law, you ignored the law. And not only that, you bypassed the public hearing, you bypassed the contract with the social partners. You are now pretending like nothing happened, and by this tax law you have touched every man in the Republic of Croatia. You denied pensioners the rights, they didn't get anything through tax reform. You denied young families the right to buy first real estate without tax. Artists, journalists through new accusations in contributions, have also made life difficult. And you're now moralizing here, and you didn't say a word about respecting existing laws when tax reform was brought here regarding every citizen in this country. It's just amazing to me. And the truth is that the last government did not respect all segments of the regulation's impact assessment procedure. I am also pleased to learn from this, that this procedure was extremely complicated, extremely slow and made it difficult for the law to be passed. Because if it weren't for that, we wouldn't be discussing these changes and additions today. It's easier for you, but please don't moralize when you've broken even worse laws, so you're not credible. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33617	Dear Representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33618	Thank you very much. We're credible colleagues, and now I'm going to make the argument. So it wasn't 15, it was 16 laws. The fact is, we were a little bit in a time when all this was to come because we had to make a state budget and we wanted the first tax reform to start from 1.1, and it has its effects. So you said the pensioners didn't get anything. That's not true. It turns out from the JPY forms that out of 151,000 pensioners who could only raise pensions for them 42000, pensions were raised as it was possible because they paid a certain part of the tax. Those who didn't pay taxes from their taxes or receipts can't even get it. They didn't even get that through your tax reforms because it's just not possible. So you can't say such lies. As far as pensioners themselves are concerned, the first harmonisation of pensions was made by 0.5% with 1.1.2017. Second alignment goes by 0.8% 1.7.2017. There are resources in the budget for that. So we're worried that what we said, we promised to make it happen. You can take the government program to confirm that to yourself. We're really making every effort to be different from what you're doing, it means. You had a gas pick-up announcement, it didn't happen. You were disappointed, you were very disappointed with it. Now we are trying to save what we have left when we talk about highways to restructure the entire system, restructure and in talks with those that will enable us to restructure and refinance the commitments that are the biggest in the next three years. We have to make some moves. There's nothing to hurt a day for nothing, no something going for a certain activity and we'll do it. But we won't do what you wanted. We're not gonna sell highways to someone for some money and say that's no longer our concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33619	Thank you. A colleague of the Voice raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt, and which point?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33620	Mr. Boric violated Article 238. Rules of Procedure, he's stepped away from the subject. He's talking about highways, the law-related gas story, that is, there's no answer to my replica, where I've made it very clear that the government of the Republic of Croatia violated the Law on the Impact Assessment of the Rules when it passed tax reform concerning every citizen and through whom it denied many rights, through which only the rich, poor did profit. And he's talking about now I don't know about roads, tolls, wine. [[- Intruder Rainer: Good. So.../]] Okay, so you could hold a referendum, ask the citizens what they think about taking the highways, so... [[Intruder Reiner: You...]] apply in some way in reality the assessment of the effects of the regulations, i.e. to see if any of these are necessary [[Intruder Reiner: Fellow Voter...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33621	Comrade Voter, you now abuse this provision of the Rules of Procedure. So you said yours. I'll answer you, You didn't have any, you don't have time to hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Voter: But I had more time.]] You've got to tell me what the Rules of Procedure was hurt about. I estimate that no injured Rules of Procedure, simply because your colleague Maras, You haven't been here, you've talked about it at least ten times. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Voter: But I am not Maras.]] I let him do it like I let other colleagues expand the subject to a pretty wide range of what's a narrow topic. Therefore, I estimate no injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33622	I think you've hurt him now, too, but it's on your soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33623	The next replica is an esteemed representative. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was brought up by counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33624	Dear Vice President, Article 238 speaks of a subject that is not subject to discussion. Look, we have one party on the other side that never talks about the topic of debate. I said in two lines today that the Law on the Impact Assessment of the Law has turned us on the subject of highways. She turned to pensioners, tax reform, etc. So they abuse the Rules of Procedure to get a chance to say something else after the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33625	Don't do this to me. I'm assessing that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33626	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Boric. You mentioned tax reform yourself, so it's legitimate to discuss it, so we're talking about an impact assessment. You mentioned this tax reform as some big step in the history of the economy and the development of society, but I don't know, maybe we live in a parallel world. Here are two and a half months past, I don't see these effects, and eventually there are official statistics that happened in the last two and a half months after the big reform. It has accumulated 1.5% fuel, it has collected food 1%, it has accumulated property purchases by 4%, several thousand jobs have been closed, especially those seasons waiting for jobs during the winter, they have collected gas and electricity even though you claim they are not, but they have, because that decision has only been delayed, and to the detriment of those who distribute energy, they have accumulated catering services. Now from 1.4, they will collect toll, so these are the effects of the tax reform that Croatian citizens feel on their skin. And we really need to ask ourselves whether this tax reform has created something useful for this country or if something bad has been done. This tax reform, among other things, has opened up, has told entrepreneurs space, but we see that they are not using it, that here is the biggest entrepreneur in the Republic of Croatia despite your tax reform asking for the government's help and it is about to fail. Therefore, I think the assessment of the impact of the tax reform shows another reality than the bombing announcements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33627	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33628	Thank you very much. I know Mr. Bunjac always has his stats. Yesterday he also said here some statistics about 1% of the trust in the judicial system, they have in the Living Wall their research. I'm just afraid that, say, the Constitutional Court doesn't transfer its powers to the Chief Board of the Living Wall because then they would really be in some bigger problem. And yesterday he told me which country is his favorite in which he would like to live and that meets the standards of the Living Wall. He said it was the Dominican Republic and let me learn about it on the Internet, I looked at it. It's one state that has tens of millions of inhabitants, the basics of that state is that 40% of the population is poor and that it's the largest emigrant Latino state i.e. The population in the United States. Here's because it's his ideal we'll deal with our country in HDZ, try to make it a little better. Live wall let me say continue your activities called demagogy or pulsism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33629	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33630	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I support your debate especially in the part where you have touched the indignity of which I have spoken of myself in the debate. I believe that indeed our fellow citizens often have this impression, not only of them, but of all those who work in all the institutions of the state, as well as of local and regional self-government, who must apply the regulations. We often witness that they are in the dilemma that the regulation applies because when the regulations are passed in the emergency procedure, we often change one article, and then he has repercusions on several rules and then we are in a dilemma about how to act. It certainly is not good as you stated in the previous government was the practice of making regulations in the emergency procedure and I am pleased that in this term, when I am a representative myself, we are changing practice. Since an impact assessment has not been carried out, we can also see in the tax reform of the last government, when the regulations have really affected that some units of local self-government have almost gone bankrupt because of their reduced incomes. And also the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is experiencing changes in one article in 2012 when conditions were first laid down for the appointment of criteria, in fact for the appointment of members of the administration, and then immediately after that, the amendment of the law of the same article when they were abolished, the same criteria, and then, before the end of the term of office of the government of Zoran Milanovic, again set such criteria. Here's an example of how we shouldn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33631	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33632	Thank you very much. We will remind them of what they did, but not because we want to be the same as them. We want to be better and we need to be better and this law is something that makes it better. That's why there are differences, and that's why one day it's going to come to a choice, and we're going to see what people think about all of this in terms of both authorities and opposition and those who need something. As for the laws they passed, here you mentioned the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act. Then they took a billion and 800 million kunas, set up a compensation fund of 500 million kunas, and they said here's what we paid you back. A billion and 300 remain state. What did the tax reform say and this government? We'll take 2 billion by 6 months, pay you back in a month from last year's income, in 6 months we'll make a new law on financing local self-government units. It's in progress, and I hope we can discuss it by the middle of this year and put it together, i.e. to compose a different system of financing local self-government itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33633	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33634	Thank you. Dear fellow Boric, I am not surprised by your debate, she is expected, typical of you, she has been seen, she is already famous and goes about like this. This government and all the laws and regulations that these governments are making are geniuses and the government itself is genius. And the proof of that is that the past government and all its regulations were not valid at all. Well, if the government passed, for example. Picking up tolls then it's almost a crime unlike this government that when it collects tolls, then it's just genius. So, the debate expected, unimaginative and more or less boring. But that's not why I got up on the line, but to try to explain to you that total social relations don't just determine laws and regulations that can measure impact, impact assessment. There is also political action beyond legislative procedures, besides the adoption of rules that have a significant impact, not only on the budget, but on overall social events, or if you want people to live in a country. Well, here's the thing, for example. Prime Minister Plenkovic, ha, so unreasonablely, in Ukraine that several very strange statements then we have a reaction to the injured Russian side and then these Russian creditors, for example. They're going to avenge on Agrokor. And if they take revenge on Agrokor, then 35,000 households will lose their jobs in this Agrokor. And why is that? Well, it's not in the law written, not one thing, what Plenkovic did in Ukraine. Who's going to make an assessment of the impact of that unreasonable move? When the president doesn't see any fascia of the country and we have a court in Chicago where they're looking for 35, I mean billions of dollars and then we're calling for ZAVNO. And why don't we call each other when these Ustashas come out? And what effect is 35 billion dollars going to have? Who's going to make an impact assessment? So let's not just talk about laws, let's watch total politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33635	Thank you. It's our job here to talk about laws first and foremost. Comrade Boric, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33636	A colleague of Stazic, says one of your left intellectuals, who is quite important in the SDP now, says that your discipline of phrase has pushed out the discipline of opinion. So that's what you do all the time here in the assembly. Look, ever since your eagle fell and twice, he's just left behind a system that's just been running a little bit. They're gone, one's talking, another's listening. There is one fight and an attempt to impose yourself as a party, as an opposition, but it is very difficult to go and the ratings are truly catastrophic. But because you represent, look, you mention the fascia of society, these topics in the Parliament are almost gone. Don't get up, don't get up, don't talk about it. We're trying to do what we were chosen to do here. And the government to try to secure what it's tasked with, new jobs, economic growth, reduce deficits, regulate public finances. And that's what we do, unfortunately for you, but that's how it is. And what the Prime Minister himself says is controversial is your only interest, which is why the SDP exists in some way. And that's what you did, and while you were in power, ideology was your idea of leadership of the entire government. And your consensus, which is narrowed down to that sentence either we or they are simply something that may still have certain effects on the state of Croatian society today. But we'll take care of that, regardless of your attempts to deal with these subjects alone. There are really good topics. And who's going to assess the effects? Well, we won't give it to the SDP to assess our effects. You've assessed the effects of your regulations. You've been sitting here as vice president, and in those great estimates, public debt has grown by 80 billion in four years. We're now trying to reduce the external debt, if you're following it, and we're quite successful in these two years, however minor that may seem to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33637	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, state secretary Natasa Mikush Zigman would have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33638	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. So let me thank you on behalf of the promoter for, I can say, therefore, the support that I think has been quite clearly crystallized through the debate on this bill and the support therefore given and in terms of the adoption of such a regulation. We will also, of course, take due care to consider and install in the bill such as those observations, constructive remarks which go towards improving its content and application itself. Since a lot of words have been made about tax regulations and related to this and the Law on the Gas Market, here I would just like to stress that, therefore, in tax laws, therefore in all 16 laws is actually incorporated into a provision under which the assessment of the effects of this regulation will be made in an ex post methodology, so later on, within the time limit actually set by these regulations, and what I also find important to emphasise is that it was highlighted at the very beginning of the debate is therefore a question of capacity for implementation. We are therefore aware of the importance of capacity building for the proper implementation of this regulation. This is done continuously and now, through appropriate educational modules, i.e. education organised for professional holders, and it is certainly one of the activities on which we will therefore work even more intensively before the expected application of this new law that we now propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33639	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The following is the proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of regulations, first reading, P.Z. No. 109th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the assessment of the effects of the rules is hereby adopted. All comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 120 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and none against, the majority of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33642	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the esteemed representatives, MPs and advocates before you is the proposal for a law on compensation procedures for infringement of competition rights. This proposal for a law on compensation proceedings is transposed into the national legislation of Directive 2014/104 of 26 November 2014, and the directive itself refers to rules governing the procedure for compensation for infringements of competition law. Therefore, in this way, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil its obligations as a Member State of the EU, and that law refers to abuse of the ruling position and prohibited agreements in the sense of the basic EU operating contracts, i.e. the specificity of Articles 101 and 102. What do we want to achieve, or propose, by this law? I would like to highlight the two fundamental objectives that this bill seeks to achieve. Therefore, the first concerns that it is necessary, therefore, to enable anyone who has suffered damage caused by the infringement of competition rights by entrepreneurs or associations of entrepreneurs to achieve, therefore, the full compensation of the damage and that, in practice, the person who suffered the damage would be in a position where there would be no breach of competition law. In fact, the full compensation of the damages actually means that the person is entitled to compensation for property damage, not property damage and the interest that is associated with it. The second objective of this law is to achieve a balance between public and private enforcement of competition law. In particular, public-law enforcement of competition protection relating to the determination of injury and sanctioning itself. The private and legal implementation relating to, therefore, to the compensation of the damage caused by such enforcement and thus to be achieved again is therefore an effective protection of competition. This regulation will apply competent commercial courts, where in fact, in the process, a very important role will be to disclose evidence in these compensation procedures, and the law should contribute to an effective competition for the reasons that it will allow in the Republic of Croatia to encourage the compensation procedures which it currently has in a very small number right now in the Commercial Courts. What's this gonna mean in practice? In practice, it means that any natural and legal person who considers it damaged by breach of competition protection regulations, i.e. any citizen, any consumer or competitor on the market who also holds that such infringement of the right has occurred. And for that reason his right was violated, so he paid a higher price for goods, services or works. Therefore, after the entry into force of this Act, which we now propose to entrepreneurs who would be responsible for violating the rules on competition, they should also count on the risk of compensation for damages. At the same time, therefore, another instrument is given to the damaged who can actually collect such damage. The damage to the claims brought before the court will therefore need to be quantified in court to determine the amount of such damage. We therefore believe that this law, which we propose, will therefore have one strong and additional deterrent effect on entrepreneurs with a clear message that the breach of the competition rules will not be paid. In addition to the right of the damages to the full compensation of the damages which I was now speaking technically about, therefore, this bill in its provisions details the issues of disclosure of evidence, the issues of protection of confidential information, determines the restriction of the use and detection of such evidence, including issues, such as limitation, obstruction of proceedings and the solidarity of entrepreneurs who have violated the right of competition by common procedures. The specific chapter regulates the transfer of excessive prices to direct and indirect customers, regulates the issue of calculating the amount of damage by competent commercial courts, regulates issues of contractual dispute settlement and also determines the impact of decisions of the authorities responsible for the protection of competition. Or if, therefore, an action has been brought against the Agency's decision by the High Administrative Court, the effect of such a decision shall also be determined. Such a decision by the Agency or the High Administrative Court shall be deemed irrefutable, as proposed by this law, until the decision of the competition authorities or the court of another EU Member State has been deemed proven otherwise. This bill passed the regulation's impact assessment process, consultation was conducted with the interested public, it was discussed on the Economic and Social Council, no additional budgetary resources needed to implement it. We therefore propose to the Croatian Parliament for the discussion and adoption of this law because we believe that the Croatian legal order will be richer for another regulation that regulates a specific type of procedure, which should allow for an increased level of protection damaged by infringement of competition rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33643	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Before I open the debate I would only like to read one notice, few of us are in each case the 9th session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Assembly will be held today in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, it is room 133 with the beginning of work at 14.00 hours, so if there are members here they will know, and do not pass on to them please. Now we'd like to go to clubs. And the first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33644	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. I can only say bravo at first, bravo for one of the laws that will cause great avalanche. Whoever's been tracking the events on our market will see that wherever we touch the area of any human life, we will find certain problems that are related to precisely the exploitation of the market position within a particular monopoly, even protected conditions, oligopol or even the absence of the possibility of someone participating somewhere. Well, maybe I'll even be someone who can file a dozen lawsuits just as soon as I'm getting ready for this debate, only it occurred to me. Now we've got gasmen, they're all edgy when they're put in a position, they have to fight to stay on their market where they are, where they're the only ones who exist, where there are no two bidders. It is the same for the thermalists who are suppliers where there are no two, learn to function where only one is and have learned to be careful that someone who could be competitive, who could offer a lower price in public services, does not appear. And then we follow in Germany the fall in gas prices 6.5%, with us crying for coming into a more unfavourable position and all the burdens they carry are unfortunately owned, by the public ownership of local self-government, by regional self-government with many of their dysfunctions, by numerous employees over-employees offering a price that is too difficult for us. We have also been monitoring the events of telecommunications services, we see that it comes in the Croatian market to connect, grouping. HT, they took Optima, so now Optima has taken over H1, a little bit, and that's where it's happening. We are monitoring the development of broadband networks where we are also afraid of exactly such a ruling position on the market where we will be able to offer a product one bidder at a price where we are damaged. So we can list a number of other bidders and, of course, here by following this situation around the Agrokor system, we understand that they are one of the key buyers on the market, that price formation is mainly dictated to them, that others who are involved in some small share are following that price. But in the end, let's not accuse them of being just their own, so finally, here's the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Economy itself, and I've mentioned that we're fans, and we're the ones who support the price deal, for example. wheat. We all want to reach an agreement, if we had one price to cheer up, we usually go in those agreements, we'd kuna and 40 last year we'd end up on 80 limes and they're all in a couple of limes there. Is this competition, did our farmer have a real opportunity to sell his product at competitive prices on the market with quality demand? I say no from this position. So that's another example of how we have the problems that spill over because unfortunately when a company this big shakes, then we're aware that agricultural production, especially in rural areas, is going to be difficult times. And just like those rural areas are one example where I've cited, the secretary of state, that here I have a chance to say a dozen of my complaints, I'm going to complain. Why is there only one store with me? Why isn't there a chance there's another one? Why is there only one catering facility? Why didn't he have any mail in our place? Why do we suffer from one offer or even none but conditioned somewhere we have to go, pay more dearly. And finally, what do we as a society provide to our citizens as responsible political factors, what do we give them? Do we give them a competitive price, did we say for such areas we can't secure perhaps the offerer, but can we secure a competitive price? No, we didn't offer that. We even have a problem with public services, with garbage and chimneys. What's going on? No bidder ever answers, but we're going to ask someone to provide a public service. And finally in the municipal councils, usually in smaller municipalities, the most discussion about the price of such a service is the most. Why is it too high? I say just because we haven't given such rural areas a chance especially to war-damaged areas that they can agree their lives back, that they can get a chance to compete. Or let's ask another question. Why don't we have a chance to buy a Croatian product? Why don't we have the width in some range, but just a certain number of products? Why are we even talking about the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices? All these are the conditions for a number of lawsuits that can arise after this, and this is really one of the laws that I can from the full heart and myself and my colleagues from MOST can support. But I'm just warning that there are problems that our citizens can address, and in the end, the judiciary will have to respond again to whether something has to change in Croatia, whether we have to do something for our children when we send them to school. So when I send them to school, we just go back to the offer of that transport that we have that when there's no state support that prices are lower than when suddenly there's a subsidisation from a state or a local budget. So there's no real match, there's no real bidders who can make sure that when the state helps us win, we get even more favourable conditions, and not in the end that it's just maximizing someone's profits. And even, here we go again back to the endangered group, the endangered area rural, production, agricultural. We see that we have made alternative offers. So we have, somewhere talking about alternative facts, we have alternative offers because we have made our regulations possible, forced, forced the establishment of new family farms because of what we said we can't, someone who has a child in the agricultural economy that would continue to work, used that possibility as young farmers, not he has to start a new OPG. A company which is larger than that cannot be reported, not a new company should be established. And when we push it all in front of our entrepreneurs, they're still more undertaking than we are, then they find exactly the models of how to respond to that challenge, they're starting new entities that are coming into competitions, and then we're going back to battle later, and we're saying no, you get us wrong, we didn't want to give you a chance, no, now all of this together we have to get back to the beginning, you're not acceptable. And I agree, it was an abuse of good intentions but I say that good intention that we had leads us right to hell. The MOST advocates' club will support this bill, and hopefully there will be more understanding in the future that the huge problems that have accumulated do not have to be dealt with precisely through compensation to anyone who expected a competition and favourable conditions for themselves, their family, their company, for this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33645	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first person to represent the edge of the muscle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33646	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, you've touched the gas prices, the gas in our country. And as a businessman, I feel it well what happens when a businessman has to pay an expensive price for gas or any heating that is certainly the most, at least in Slavonia, gas consumption. But what's going on here? It happens that the state has allowed individuals to have everything under their control, and they're constantly small, no matter how little they earn, it's small for them. We know that, what, two billion profits were through selling gas and increasing prices. Those two billion to give citizens not to pay expensive gas citizens would have a better standard. It's rare what we do to benefit from it all. It's clear to me that telecommunications has entered Croatia a long time ago, we've been robbed for 25 years, let's say 20 years, with high prices and internet and phone conversations and everything. We have now entered Europe, Europe is still cheaper than we are, the talks in Europe are much cheaper than in Croatia. We have not yet reached this, this possibility of illustrating the prices of Europe and Croatia. You mentioned entrepreneurs and craftsmen. I was talking here the other day at Parliament the kids footballers became craftsmen, they were blocked, at their door the house must be even the board that they're craftsmen, you might think, coming inspection, to see what they're doing, if they don't have it then have a penalty. If they bought a sweatpants or shoes over the bill... the question whether they bought it or not, whether they spent it or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we know that here in this country 50 billion kuna is not tax paid to certain businessmen, certain favourable businessmen and craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33647	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33648	Dear fellow Music. Just imagine the situation, here we are speaking on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the entrepreneurs. So let's say the state, when the state itself should be complaining about where everything was damaged, in all the procedures where someone agreed to, where it came out with an offer that was agreed earlier on, what would only then be a series of great lawsuits that came in. So now we've opened actually one object that shouldn't maybe come back retroactively. Now we've talked during this law, let's not use retroactively if it will finally change consciousness, awareness that decisions from today should be better, better quality, more competitive, not to end up putting people's lives at risk. Now here we are in our county, following signs of arsenic in the water. So what do we got? One bidder in one single-price infrastructure and we end up endangering life. Therefore, if there was anyone there to tell the competitor he would have already offered something better, warned of something, ensured that we could defend that position. But maybe today is a break-in moment when we vote this law when it comes into force, to finally say, it's enough now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33649	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33650	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenić, I have a feeling that you have expanded this subject a little, and let me, and I must be very careful with these terms, am not a lawyer, so when I talk about pests, direct customers or indirect customers. What goes beyond this law, which is the problem of this society, and you mentioned when you talk about the interest of the Republic of Croatia or the particular public interests of certain units of local self-government. What happens to us and happens in practice is actually a direct customer is a pest, and an indirect customer often won't report the damage he has because in some ways a target or victim in some cases a political racket. Namely, at the time when quality land or suitable land is purchased from a unit of local self-government or state-owned, it is then resold to a legal or natural person at some price far above this price. And another thing about agricultural land is that we also have in some other contexts such cases where actually people who are not direct borrowers of agricultural land take this land, process and work. These are the problems that I will encounter in Slavonia today and tomorrow in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33651	The answer of the distinguished representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33652	A colleague, Žagar, one of the topics is precisely the availability of state property and obtaining the quality offers that are here I know that changes and the Law on Agricultural Land owned by the Republic of Croatia are expected, means that it gets the RH a reasonable price, to preserve the production that is there, that in fact, and perhaps some decisions that were manipulative, at the level of corruption, that we can prevent them. And you have asked one key question, and that is whether competition when all agricultural producers can report on equal terms, for example in a farm land tender or someone has the advantage of having received one confirmation from the head of local self-government and thus having the advantage of peaceful property. I can agree, someone was in the contest, expired his contract perhaps, so the peaceful property expects, of course, to have some advantage if he was a good master, to pay his obligations neatly. But here we have a situation that hundreds of acres by a certain decision are a priority that in the future competition he achieves the right to buy and can say what I certainly get. And then we'll be wondering if we've allowed real competition, real opportunity and our farmers. Or we'll tell them you didn't get a real chance, you can complain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33653	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strike, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33654	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Panenić, you have devoted a large part of your debate to rural areas where it is really difficult. You also devoted one part of the debate to the terms of our agriculture where we literally, so most of the agricultural products are imported. But given how difficult it is for me to stress that the current government or this assembly of parliament has been well initiated. Let me remind you that a whole set of tax laws has been passed where citizens know in advance what to do next, entrepreneurs know what to expect in the next four years, and the Public Procurement Act has also been amended. The public procurement law also provides for short supply lines, and it is precisely all public procurement bonds that have the possibility that, in the case of public procurement, public procurement or selections, the option of selection, which means that if they seek meat, they can place that from slaughter to delivery, there must be a few hours. If they're looking for fruit, vegetables from harvesting hours to delivery can also be within a few hours. And in this way I believe that just the ones most needed for which public procurement is being called will be able to be supplied to quality agricultural products, and thus help our OPGs. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33655	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33656	Dear fellow, this is, of course, what this law predicted from the same ministry as this. These are positive laws. It's their only use. If all our contracting authorities applied such criteria then they would not fear for our agricultural producer or for our trader who may be delivering office equipment or for anyone else because they would know that he has a market niche in which someone else can appear. He didn't limit anyone. It can appear, it can offer, but it can't be the economy of the range of bidders, let's say from the capital, and then the cleaning service of a facility gets the company from Zagreb, and then the low price is even lower so that someone locally does a service for them. It is then a slaver's relationship in which you have no choir but to accept at any price a certain service. And there we need to make a clear distinction of what we are protecting, and especially in such endangered areas. But I'm going to have to replicate a little bit, and maybe you noticed in adopting a package of tax laws that I didn't vote for one of the laws and I'll tell you what. Because it is in favour of the city of Vukovar that I support, only one item was disputed because I come from neighbouring municipalities where I represent at the end and people from that area, so that it can be achieved if at least 50% of the workers in the area of the city of Vukovar. So if someone hires two workers and then that happens a lot, for example. A worker in my community won't get a chance to get a job. And that's something I warned you about, unfortunately it wasn't possible. So it's not if you give someone the privilege of keeping the other side damaged. We're gravitating that city, so I tried to warn you from one human level and I couldn't support it from my own personal level. But I say tax reform is a good way of course with some minor changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33657	Thank you. Now we're going to take a break up to three hours when we're going to continue with this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33658	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ club, representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33659	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Madam Assistant, Your Honor, Here is the Law on Compensation Procedures for Infringement of Competition Rights, and that is, in the first reading, which leaves us with the possibility of further repairing if something is necessary in this law itself until the second reading. This legislative proposal also harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and provides a statement of compliance with this proposal. However, what is important to say is that in the Republic of Croatia, the area of protection of competition was governed by the Law on the Protection of Competition during 2009 and 2013 and other sublaws which were necessary for that law to be implemented. Since the entry into the EU, the Competition Protection Agency has the power to apply the provisions of the law directly to the provisions of the EU acquis governing the protection of competition. So this agency actually applied certain articles that were inherited and acquired through the EU's gains, and that is how it actually regulated the relationship and everything that was happening in any particular dispute. And in part, while the damages were regulated by general regulations, the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Law on Prosecution. What is the quality of this new law is, therefore, that after all these changes that have taken place and also certain changes in EU directives, in fact, all of this law has been applied in this law and sublime all that is necessary in order for quality to be handled in cases where there is a need for compensation procedures for infringements of competition rights. The directive adopted in the EU regulated the rules necessary to ensure that anyone who has suffered damage caused by infringements of competition rights by entrepreneurs or associations of entrepreneurs can effectively exercise the right to demand full compensation from those entrepreneurs or associations and provide a framework for the adoption of the rules. So, with the adoption of the directive and the introduction of the law, I will refer only to some questions that the law has actually qualityly arranged for certain relationships. In the proceedings of compensation for infringements of competition law, the Directive also transposes into national law damages to the full compensation caused by infringements of competition law. Well, that's the way it is, for example. Article 5 of the right to full compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law, and it also covers the full compensation of the property damage and the repair of no property damage, and the possibility of compensation and legal, tightening interest. It shall also establish the form of liability for damage caused by infringements of competition law and for which it is liable regardless of the guilt. What is more important in this article is that the directive itself and this law states that any additional conditions for seeking ex post damage to competition rights such as the conditions of guilt must be in line with the established case law of EU courts and the principles of effectiveness and equivalent value. Taking into account the fact that the infringement and liability for the infringement have already been established by the decision of the competition protection authority or the court, the concept of objective liability has been accepted. This law also sets out in detail the issues of disclosure of evidence in compensation proceedings before competent commercial courts, the protection of confidential information and the disclosure of evidence contained in the case file of the competition authorities. The special provision lays down the restriction of the use and disclosure of such evidence, in particular protection against the disclosure of statements by entrepreneurs, penitents and fines for breach of the rules on the detection of evidence. This is all regulated in Article 6 which is in fact detailed and prescribed. Since disputes in the field of competition rights are characterised by the asymmetry of information, it is necessary to ensure that prosecutors have the right to result in the disclosure of evidence relevant to their request and that they do not need to provide individual elements of the evidence. In order to ensure the equivalence of the parties, these funds should also be made available to the defendants in the compensation procedures, so that they can request the disclosure of evidence. In the sense that this Directive 214/104 is therefore authorised by the court to request a certain set of evidence such as submissions, e-mails and the like. It also regulates the impact of decisions taken by the authorities responsible for protecting competition on infringements of competition rights adopted in national compensation procedures when a decision has been taken in another EU Member State. The other provisions also cover issues of limitations, congestion and solidarity of entrepreneurs who have violated competition rights through joint procedures. Thus, articles 12 are governed by exactly that area of outdatedness, where obsolete claims of damages are due, says antiquity is said within 5 years of the day of termination of the injury and from the day the injured party found out or could have found out about the injury. What is interesting is that, in accordance with the Directive, a limitation of the statute of competition by the authority responsible for the protection of competition is prescribed and is therefore provided for in this article where the maximum time limit is 15 years from the termination of the infringement of competition law. The specific chapter also regulates the transfer of excessive prices to direct and indirect customers. Defence of the transfer and recovery of damages from different supply chain levels. It is also in certain chapters, i.e. at the end of the law, that the question of calculating the amount of damage by the competent commercial courts is settled, as well as the contractual settlement of disputes. Thus far, the differences that existed between Member States in national systems applying different rules in the compensation procedures for infringements of competition rights have resulted in relatively few procedures and claims for compensation in the EU. In order to make it easier for victims of infringements of European or national competition law to receive full compensation for the damage they have suffered, it is therefore necessary to adopt uniform rules at EU level and hence, in our legislation. Thus, this law has increased and achieved a balance between public and private enforcement of competition law and the achievement of a uniform material and procedural rule in the exercise of the right to compensation for infringement of competition rights. In order to ensure effective private enforcement procedures and in the context of civil law and effective public enforcement by competition authorities, both tools must interact with each other in order to ensure maximum efficiency precisely in competition rules. The aim of the law, as pointed out, is therefore to ensure that any natural or legal person who has suffered damage caused by a breach of competition law can also claim full compensation for damages. This law will contribute to an effective competition because it will enable Croatia to incentivise compensation procedures for infringements of competition rights which it currently has, in fact, in a small number in commercial courts. This enables public-law enforcement of competition protection to follow a private-legal exercise that promotes effective competition protection. The HDZ Club will support this proposal and we hope that in the second reading, we will fix anything that may need to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33660	Thank you. The next club is SDSS's representative, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33661	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the ministry, State Secretary in front of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, colleagues and colleagues. There's not too many of us here today at this debate, obviously there's no big interest in this topic, which, of course, isn't good because this isn't a benign topic, this is a very interesting topic regarding the regulation of our market. And I'm going to say my opinion, or my club's opinion on this bill. So, we view this legal proposal as a kind of lex specialis which in a special way regulates liability for damage because we know that responsibility for damage as a legal instrument is regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations is followed by a litigation procedure, so this institute is already arranged, and you have tried to specialize it as a special substance in this legislative proposal that we support is that we get in this way by seeing the problem of the law that gives everyone who feels the possibility, and of course they prove that they are damaged in the process of unfair competition, they get a certain kind of prescribed satisfaction, and that's good. And we're going to support this legal proposal, but I'm going to comment on it because I think there's something that needs to be said about both the law and the phenomena that follow this law. So we think he's welcome and now, he should have brought it in a little while before and it's not good if we always respond and only when these EU directives tell us to. So I think the initiative should be a little bit more closely monitored. It is good that we have not experimented with law in this law as we have experimented with, let's say, the Implementing Law, so we see that we have an exercise based on a credible document that the European Court has declared virtually illegal. We recently had an argument about the extradition where a solution is imposed to infiltrate private property, so it takes away property based on a temporary solution and I consider it a certain experiment in the legal profession and you have avoided it. We see that this is about compensation for damages under the rules of the Law on Mandatory Relations in the Commercial Courts is the result of this compensation in a so-called so-called. a conflicting process where discussing the facts of evidence listens to both sides and then determines the fact of the truth. Here's what I'm gonna say. It's kind of a rule, and I'm glad you followed those basic legal principles. In Article 3 you have defined the terms which are relevant for the implementation of this law. For me, it is particularly important to define an infringement of competition law where it has been found that the infringement of the protection of competition which determines the prohibited agreements of entrepreneurs or the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs and the infringement of Article 101, 102. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. This is important because this is the basis for the adoption of this law, as is particularly important to me, the interesting definition of the cartel where you have said here, so you have set the frameworks for defining the cartel, agreement or concerted action between two or more independent competitors who aim to coordinate their competitive practices on the market or to influence relevant competition parameters through practices such as the determination of production, sales, market sharing, the buyer, including the agreement on participation in public procurement procedures, restrictions on imports, exports etc. So it's a cartel. Why do I say that? Because later in the debate, I will try to undermine this definition under our reality and see where we are, or where our economy is within the framework of that definition. In Article 5, you have clearly defined who has the right to full compensation for damages, so that is that this damage has the right to compensation for damages, to repair no property damage and to tighten interest. This is what people need to know who are listening to us now, that these are their rights and pests that cause damage to competition rights, it is necessary to compensate for the damage suffered, and it is responsible for the damage regardless of the guilt. Therefore, the fact of someone’s intention or guilt is not determined, just enough to prove or make it obvious that there is damage that has suffered in some way too high a price. And the third thing, it is therefore assumed that because of the infringement of competition law it begins in the form of cartel damage unless the pest proves otherwise. You've re-emphasized some sort of species here, by me, and you've accentuated the danger of what's called the so-called danger. The cartel and you said you're overkilling the cartel as soon as the cartel's created there's a danger of cartel operations unless the cartel proves otherwise. In Article 6 you said you prescribed procedural rules which I think is good, well Article 7 you protected confidential information because we know that it is an economy that has its business secrets and a breach of business secrets can be more harmful than the benefit of the compensation process. Also, in Article 15, you have very well defined the basis for the damage, so you have said that the damage that the indirect buyer proved to be excessively priced to him if it proves that the pest committed a violation of competition rights and infringements of competition rights led to an excessive price for the direct buyer and the pest, or at the end of the day if the injured party bought goods or services. So these are the elements that are sufficient for someone in court if these assumptions are met to consume the right to compensation for damages. Finally, in article 18, you gave the opportunity to settle these disputes in agreement, of course in order to avoid some of them, I suppose, in order to avoid expensive court proceedings and lengthy court proceedings. And that is how you, in the transitional and final provisions, said that this law, which is not the usual thing, is applied retroactively to the processes that were launched after 26.12.2014. I'm just asking, so these are the disputes that started two years ago and haven't ended yet. So we can reopen one story about the efficiency of our judiciary. If two years of damages dispute is not over, then what is the motive of the other users, or the damages to go to some expensive court dispute they will receive after 4 or 5 years? And what is the purpose of compensation for such a type of damage after 5 or 6 years? Now I would warn of some things that in ours, therefore, in ours, on our market and ask if through these cases this law will be possible to apply. We're all talking about the state of dairy, I'm going to mention a few thesis here. The fact is that in dairy today, which is believed to be working in direct conflict with the European regulation. Milk companies such as Dukat, Vindi, Megle, Belje and they control almost 70% of the dairy market. Of which, Dukat himself controls over 35% of the total purchase of milk in our society. The contracts analysed in the relations between the buyer Dukat and the individual show that milk producers have to conclude the Dukat contract and are based on the terms of such a contract almost in a feudal relationship. The contract provided for by the European Regulation is the first and most important point to discuss. Analyzing contracts with Dukat, it is only a marginal clause, a marginal clause in the contract, it is a small detail in the contract. And contracts with Dukat are limited to quantities that the manufacturer is obliged to deliver. And there are sensitive penalties prescribed if the manufacturer doesn't do it. I'm asking the question here, so are these joint producers who dictate and limit the price of purchases, the purchase of milk, and who have brought such an attitude and such a limitation of dairy prices in a catastrophic position with me in Slavonia and Baranja that people who are enormously in charge of raising dairy farms are now in front of collapse and bankruptcy, are they monopolies, unfair competitors or cartels? So I'm saying that the subtle limit between the definition of monopolies is this way and the cartel as you've prescribed. Who's to say if these are cartel associations? If they did, they're under direct sanctions from this law that we're going to do, which we're going to accept in the second reading. So are these monopolies, then, cartels, and do they come under the direct blow of this, the definition of this law? If they are, then in society we have clarified many dilemmas in this debate. Then we sent them a message that they were people, that they were subjects that absolutely led to the collapse of dairy in society with their cartel association and the intention to monopolize the dairy price market. I could speak the same thing here from winemaking. My whiteness in Baranja is absolutely monopoly. So there is not a single catering facility in which Belje, or Agrokor did not place and restrict in various ways, place his products, his wine and limit and exclude the placement of the wines of small producers. Is that how he bought every caterer? Is it in a way that he bought him a terrace, that he had his bar set up? Which, of course, is just a small wine producer in Baranja, who lives on a small amount of wine, but lives on it can't return. And we've come to the point that White is an absolute monopoly of the wine market in Baranja and Slavonia. And then we wonder why they shouldn't buy grapes from peasants at all. And then we ask ourselves, "Why do a lot of hectares fall apart?" And before that, we've invested money from the budget to stimulate people to get into that kind of production. And now we've left it to a market called Belje, Agrokor or I don't know who else. That's our reality. Are they in that case monopolies by definition of this law that we are proposing here? I could talk here about trade chains, we got mega-markets, foreign mega-markets, 70, 80% of the stuff on those shelves is the side of the horn, our slave has no place. Not to mention how much the entrance costs, the entrance to the domestic producer on the shelf of that foreign mega market. And when you pay it all, it doesn't pay you to place goods through these foreign megamarkets, and quite understandablely their goods come, domestic production goes out. Are they monopolies, I ask you? Are they the cartel association? One thing that should be discussed, and it will be certain that this law will reflect on the transatlantic agreements that the EU has quietly concluded with America, with Canada, where we know that according to these concepts of the treaty, that the basic purpose is exclusive arbitration in disputes between corporations and states, where domestic legislation is excluded. If the TTIP is accepted, then this law does not apply to foreign corporations because TTIP says that in the event of dissatisfaction, foreign corporations are seeking protection from an arbitration court of three judges who are permanent professional judges and are probably on the payroll of those corporations and where the state generally loses its dispute. So this law will not apply in the event of the signing of the agreement but will not apply in the case of an agreement signed between Europe and Canada six months ago. And foreign corporations will come to our market without being subject to domestic law and neither to this law. Finally, I could end up with a question and an analysis of where the Competition Protection Agency is in all of this, whether it is a parallel system or it is just an agency that administers certain phenomena on the market, and this law should provide only and concrete protection to dissatisfied consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33662	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's representative, Goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Here are my colleagues, indeed, who have previously spoken, explained or analyzed all the articles and clubs of the HNS, the HSU agrees with everything they have said. In the first reading, we will uphold this law. I might just be a little bit off the lines of examples we've met so far. In fact, we have now had a law on the protection of competition that actually regulated this matter and these provisions and the legal gains of the EU made it possible and controlled to apply them in Croatia as well. As far as they were going, I don't know, and that's exactly what's bothering me. In fact, we're introducing damages now, and that's really fine and that the court determines that fee. However, we have a case where many entrepreneurs, it is specifically about undertakers, suffered enormous damage because of a law that could not be changed for five years. It was about the Law on municipal activity where they were regulated and their activities, and it was about the transport of the deceased and the sale of funeral equipment. If it was a mistake to sell funeral equipment or not, I wouldn't be getting into it right now. However, the following happened. Each of those units of local self-government owned by a municipal undertaking engaged in this activity was not obliged to open a concession tender for the exercise of those activities. So it's about selling funeral equipment and transporting the deceased. This group was really pointing to these problems. It was a rule of small entrepreneurs who carried out this activity in the family as a craftsman were mostly all registered and I have to tell you that around 40% of them were simply gone. They had to close their stores, they had to get a job somewhere else. Those who were able to survive far, far less worked, or their income was reduced. So they suffered enormous damage. Who in such cases do you address? And they have damage. They couldn't go to court, they pointed out through their associations, through the Chamber of crafts. The mistake was corrected and now the sale of funeral equipment from that part was excluded. Meanwhile, concessions for this activity have also been abolished so that they are no longer available, but there are not many such craftsmen who have been there. There are other cases, but I think that should also be taken into account when legal regulations simply disable that equality. This competition on equal terms for all entrepreneurs, because what was done to them is really bad, and we strongly support this HNS club, the HSU will vote for this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33664	Thank you. The next club is SDP club and representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33665	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Secretary of State and Associates. The SDP advocates' club will also support this, the bill's proposal. And it is good in Croatia that it will finally mean after what it is, this topic was launched by the EU or by the European Commission through its directives that allows every citizen, natural or legal person who is damaged by the behaviour where competition is injured so that he can start the damage compensation on his own. And I think, of course, that opens the way to claims for injury to competition, but I think that this will also lead to a more serious and informed business on the market in the Republic of Croatia, where entrepreneurs or those offering products will then take care of the services, not only will it be possible to get punishment from the Competition Protection Agency, but it will also be subject to such claims that the courts will then solve, or where the citizens or companies will be compensated for certain things that have hurt them not by market behaviour, or by breach of competition rights which they have a lot of in Croatia. So we have a lot of examples, and the agency does a lot of work here. Of course we are at the beginning of the road and that certain practices that have not yet been brought to life in Croatia, and in the EU or underdeveloped markets in the world will exist also in Croatia. For the time being, we still do not face large lawsuits such as when the EU sues or punishes, the European Commission punishes Apple or another large company. But in Croatia, we will have a situation where there will be no breach of competition, for example, in a situation where car school agreements or something like that, but the market will protect and show that protection to larger companies. It is therefore interesting in this law that, as an interested public, a company that will obviously take care of it is a large company in the telecommunications sector, which is if you look a little at the description of those who have given specific advice or suggestions. Most of these tips were written by the company except one, most were rejected, which means that the company tried to protect more of its rights as a company and its behaviour on the market. However, it is good that, on this side, the legislator of the law, or the Ministry of Economy, explained why he did not accept certain things, or, on the other hand, in some cases where the directive was related to which he accepted them. So we expect that this will lead to further strengthening of consumers, consumer positions in the Republic of Croatia, means, for example, when today-to-morrow, a company is being sued for harming consumers or for violating the rules of competition whether cartels, price agreements, or anything else, that it will also know that the claims followed by those who used these services or the goods that bought them. And on that side, surely in the future, competition will also have a better position, and consumers themselves, for which all these laws exist, because of that. If things aren't regulated, then there's a wild West, doing whatever it wants, and usually stronger, they do what they can and on that side of the country has to regulate certain situations that can be prevented in this way and in these laws. Here is the Club of Representatives of the SDP to support the adoption of this law in the first reading. By the second reading, I believe that certain amendments will still be, perhaps in the second reading some more ideas are crystallized and amendments are given to make the law as best as possible in the end so that consumers can rightly say that they have the same rights as those who have all 28 other EU countries, or now 27. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33666	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, Representative Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33667	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, here's what you said and I'd just like to point out one fact that we have a health situation related to the award of concessions. In the award of concession, the Health Protection Act provides for a ratio of 70:30, namely, 30% for institutions owned by local administrations and self-government for the concession of primary health care for family medicine, dentistry, gynecology, paediatrics. In practice, however, we see today that the mayors of the county organizations, the health committees in conjunction with the directors of the health homes, have now slipped there, now it is already at a ratio of 60:40. Thus, we see a disturbance in equality in the performance of who can and cannot get a concession on this matter. The Competition Protection Agency has had some insights but has always cared about the side of the de facto of state ownership, but here I believe that patients are damaged about the quality of health care because the quality is on the side of the concessionaire. And now the question is whether the concessionaires will, in accordance with the amendments and the amendments to the law or the legal solution that is proposed here, have the possibility of compensation for not obtaining a timely concession or county simply do not question those concessions. And now people who are either out of a job or exclusively doing business on a private basis cannot access HZZO for a contract are damaged and the question of whether they will be able to obtain compensation according to this legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33668	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33669	Thank you very much. Comrade Varga, this is a situation which unfortunately dominates Croatia when local interests and local policy interferes with certain things, and unfortunately you are right especially at local level there is a lot of me to you variants and then it is no wonder what you said that local mayors are acting as sheriffs and trying to build their own infrastructure in this way. There are certainly damages and not only those who should exercise the right to these concessions of a certain time but are the most damaged by our citizens who then suffer for certain I would say both indifference and slowness in the work of the administration or in favour of certain local lobbyes and of course should regulate it. I am not sure that the concessionaires will be able to press charges under this law, but perhaps in some situation, if this were to happen in the future, the claim could be filed by the citizens of that county or that city against the county itself because they were prevented from getting quality health care because of these non-transparent games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33670	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Representative Orsat Miljanić, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next reported representative is Nenad Stazic, and I also don't see him in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. And representative Branimir Bunjac, who also doesn't have and loses his right to debate. Proposer's closing word? There isn't. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the dispute over the damages caused by violations of competition rights. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33671	Now follows the proposal for a law on compensation procedures for infringements of competition rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 108. Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on compensation procedures for infringements of competition rights is adopted. All comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. I find that with 120 votes for, 3 abstentions, none against, so most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33672	And we move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a law implementing Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Economy. And I'd like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Mrs. Natasha Mikush Zigman to give us an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33673	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Therefore, before you there is a proposal for a law implementing Regulation 910/2014 of 23 July '14th and the same regulation refers therefore to electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market. The proposed law in front of you creates conditions for the full application of this Regulation and thus the Republic of Croatia fulfils its obligations as a Member State of the EU. The regulation, which is therefore called an eIDAS regulation, which was adopted in July of the year, is, in a certain way, a milestone in the legislative framework at Union level and in fact wants to provide a predictable legal environment and to provide for a safe and simple electronic interaction between business operators, citizens and public institutions. Thus far, the differences between Member States in national means or electronic identification systems have made it difficult for the internal market to function normally. In order to facilitate the cross-border provision of trust services, i.e. the recognition of means of electronic identification, this Regulation has and has been adopted and is, in effect, being transposed into national legislation. What I would like to say is that electronic services are actually a prerequisite for a wide range of services that we already use now, not all but, for example, e-banking, e-business, e-government or e-health services. So that's precisely what we're doing to make it easier and more efficient to provide services both to citizens and to our entrepreneurs. This specific regulation, which we propose, therefore, lays down the conditions under which Member States recognise the mutual means and electronic identification of both natural and legal persons and they are therefore covered by electronic identification systems of another Member State. So this is exactly cross-border mutual recognition of electronic identification means. It also lays down rules for so-called. trust services, in particular for electronic transactions and the legal framework for electronic signatures, electronic stamps, electronic time stamps, electronic documents, electronic recommended delivery services and online certification services is established. As a legal act, the regulation is directly applicable in our legal system, however, we propose this law because its full application requires the adoption of an implementing regulation. By this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to establish an institutional framework for the implementation of the eIDAS Regulation, primarily through the distribution of competence between the two national authorities. National authorities responsible for e-Croatian affairs, i.e. the Ministry of Administration, which is responsible for the field of electronic identification and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts responsible for the area of trust services. Therefore, the first body, the authority responsible for e-Croatia’s tasks, is therefore responsible for the reporting and removal of national electronic identification systems to the European Commission and is also responsible for cooperation with data protection authorities. On the other hand, the public administration authority is responsible for the business of the economy. It has the responsibility to monitor trust service providers, maintain and publish reliable lists of trust service providers and cooperate with other EU supervisory authorities. What exactly do these trust services mean? The eIDAS Regulation stipulates the obligation to use the so-called Regulation. a reliable list of trust providers at European level in the verification of the validity of electronic signatures and electronic stamps. In practice, this means that only e-signatures and e-seals produced using a certificate issued by a qualified trust service provider will be legally valid. This means that it wants to ensure trust in certificates issued at national level. In addition to these above two bodies which are therefore in charge of certain segments of the implementation of the Regulation, this proposal also lays down the body responsible for the accreditation of the conformity assessment body of the trust service providers and, in this case, the national accreditation body, or the Croatian accreditation agency. Furthermore, the proposal for this law lays down the rights, obligations and responsibilities of trust providers and holders or those holding electronic identification means. Furthermore, the procedures for inspection and infringement provisions for the anti-eIDAS Regulation shall be laid down. The entry into force of this Act shall cease to be an electronic signature law. The eIDAS Regulation and this implementing law shall open the door to the establishment of a single digital market and to the world with simplified paper-free processes. They therefore allow the implementation of electronic procedures and transactions replacing traditional administrative procedures. But what I hold extremely important is to stress that legal validity is actually maintained and that there is actually a greater degree of security in such a business. We therefore expect that the law we propose after its entry into force will lead to an increase in the efficiency of business processes, to reduce operational costs of business operations and to allow those who use such systems to actually achieve a competitive advantage in the EU's common internal market. The law itself, i.e. the bill of law, has therefore passed the process of assessing the impact of the regulations in such a way that the previous assessment is done. The e-consultation procedure has passed and no funding in the state budget is necessary for its implementation. Following everything I have suggested, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this law for discussion in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33674	Thank you for the opening statement. We're going to have a debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. Ivan Vilibor Sinčić was registered in the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall. Since he has no right in the hall, he loses his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP club, representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33675	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I won't be long on this bill. First of all, it is definitely commendable that the Government is passing such a law and it is commendable to repeal this Law on Electronic Signature, because in fact this EU regulation, the European Commission, which, with everything it brings, sort of complements the shortcomings that we have in our legislation had on the subject of electronic signatures and everything else. I'd just like to say that one thing that's been done since we worked there in 2013, the fourteenth e-Citizen project that was this electronic seal you mentioned. In our legislation, the electronic seal was not something, it did not exist at all. However, we then made for the first time in the system e-Citizens of electronic documents, which today proved to be one of the best electronic services that the Republic of Croatia in the Ministry of Administration generally has in public administration and the most used services. These are electronic excerpts, birth certificates, residence certificates, residence and everything else. And then what was done then knowing in some way that this would come up on those documents we put in that then government what is now called an electronic seal. And at that moment that thing, such documents weren't fully defined by law. However, the government and all public administration bodies have de facto agreed to be something that will be generally acceptable because it is something that will definitely come. And here we have also welcomed today that day, in principle, by simply taking the regulations and adopting the European Commission's regulations, these documents are definitely legally valid. And what is de facto very important in all of this and this regulation and this law in fact makes it very much easier to work in the future with electronic signatures, with electronic documents and with electronic services. And I think that the next thing that should be based on the adoption of this regulation and by defining this new law in some way should definitely be done in order to redesign or review a complete ZUP, or the Law on Administrative General Procedure, so that all that is in this Regulation and this new law is passed there. Because one of the major problems of our laws that we have current and application of electronic processes, electronic, public services and everything that is essentially not applicable to our current laws by electronic public administration. And it's just very hard to make some electronic-type services legal in the current ZUP or current laws. And that is why I commend definitely on behalf of the club the passing of this law. I declare that we will support it, but I also demand that laws such as the ZUP and similar laws concerning public administrations be redefined, passed, and that in principle everything that needs to be changed in order for this law, in order for electronic signature, electronic stamp and everything else to be applied in the ZUP and all other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33676	Thank you. We have one replica of your exposure, Representative Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33677	I'm thanking you. Dear Paric, I strongly support this law and everything related to and regulation of electronic signatures and the issue of electronic seals, which is now the novelty that comes in. However, although I would like to emphasise what you mentioned about the Law on General Administrative Procedure and all other laws, especially those that are in the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction, the issue of issuing accounts, mutual transactions, that this is regulated as soon as possible. Here I personally have experience with existing legislation. Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, professional services based on the opinion of the professional services of the Ministry of Finance refused to recognise their own... and the infrastructure and its own certificate on signatures in each other's transactions, rather than looking for a physical rubber seal ink stamp and signature and pile, a pile of paper which unfortunately must be stored, archived for a period of 10 years in tonnes and tons of paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore appeal that, through the other laws to which this law is served, the EU regulation should be installed as soon as possible with all other laws and trained by the professional staff of all state agencies as well as the correct recognition and recognition of what the seal is, which is an electronic signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33678	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33679	I thank my colleague. I have to say that since we made a switch between me and my colleague Maras at the last minute, you gave me a little inspiration. In fact, the other day, we actually had a sealing law here. When it comes to reforming the public administration, the law on the removal of the seals that we have adopted or we are about to adopt, I'm no longer sure it's actually makeup and nothing else. The real public administration reform is actually this. And if you really want to talk about reform, about real change, about informing the public administration, about reducing waiting lines, about ultimately a smaller number of public administration employees working on administrative and similar procedures, that's this. And what I absolutely agree with you colleagues is that if we want a law like this to come into life, we need to redefine a lot of other laws in the state and we need to change a lot of business processes in the country. One of the fundamentals that should definitely be cut off and said the state from now on works like that, it's an electronic account. Namely, the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance and all millions and millions of kunas would be saved on an annual basis, millions and millions of working hours of the process and God ask how many forests and trees would be saved if the state decided and said that it would no longer work with ordinary bills and papers but with electronic accounts. This law now finally gives absolutely all predisposition that no one has any excuse to say we can't do it for that and for that. Today we have all the laws, all the elements, materials, tools, weapons whatever you want something like that to start so fast, and actually when we talk about public administration reform, it's public administration reform, information and change of business processes and models that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33680	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club representative Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33681	I thank the esteemed vice president. Here is the HNS-HSU club which will also welcome and support this Law implementing the European Parliament's Regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions. As you know, more and more things are being done on the Internet today, people have a growing need to solve things from home, that they do not have to walk from institution to institution, there is also e-banking, health, administration and business, and that is one of the laws that will definitely facilitate and create further predisposition to make it easier and business and life itself and access to people across institutions. We welcome this, and what will result in a reduction in the various operating costs of business, there will be a significant decrease in consumption. As you can see for yourself, these piles of paper that we have in front of us and that we bring down hundreds and hundreds of trees every day, and that's how we're going to make our country much better on the ecological side. Markets are increasingly open these days, borders are being torn down, online business, and it really needed one such regulation and law. What I would like to point out, however, is that there will be a need for cooperation with personal data protection authorities. As you know, personal data protection is a big topic that has been opening recently and is in some way threatened by the Internet itself, but with the Internet offering and many opportunities we simply have to work on education and meeting citizens in how to protect and protect our own personal data, so I don't believe that there will be any bigger problems, only everyone systematically has to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33682	Thank you. We have one replica of representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33683	Thanks again, me again. Oh, just one comment. In fact, one excellent example of reforming a part of the public administration is the state of the citizens, or system of queens, born, married, dead and everything else. At the job of issuing birth certificates and everything in Croatia, there are about a thousand people who do so. Today with the implementation of the e-Citizens system, with the implementation of electronic documents services, before 2012 you had a situation if you were born in Split, living in Zagreb you need a birth certificate, you had to go to Split. That was crazy, absolutely. You can live in Tanzania today, and you can take out that same birth certificate on the Internet. What I want to say is why it is a revolution and a reform, because long-term in a way where today every citizen of the Republic of Croatia through a system of e-Citizens can take out their birth certificate free wherever it comes to mind, long-term fewer people should work on the state system of citizens, a lot less employees should work and issue birth certificates and keep records of all this. I'm not saying that there's a surplus today, that someone needs to be fired, but in principle some kind of natural drain of people, that system can be reduced to 200, 300 employees with thousands of employees working. And on the other hand, it's incredibly good, you have secure systems that can't happen that the papers disappear or that I don't even know what happens. The simple world goes in this direction and the only way for us as Croatia to catch up with the modern world, with Europe, with the business world, however much we transfer the processes in this country to this very sphere of information. We've been in the public administration for four years, and I think the time has come to start to deal with the information of the business system or the business world because it's the only way to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33684	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33685	Thank you. Well, I agree with you. The Internet really makes it quite easier for us and our life makes it much simpler than taking out a birth certificate, Internet banking and everything, and here I personally don't really remember the last time I was either at a bank or in some state office everything can be solved online. And what I forgot to mention down there, that this is that by establishing one such system, let's say that we will soon have a vote on the Internet, that we will have a higher turnout behind it, because let's say often that many voters on the day when elections have to travel somewhere and then they have to register, they are procedures. And if we had the opportunity to vote through our certificates via the Internet, I assure you that turnout would be much higher because nobody would mind that day or rain, not too much sun or anything, so I definitely welcome the future that is coming and I hope that it will come as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33686	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33687	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, before us is the proposal for a law implementing Regulation 910/2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing the 1999 EC Directive in the first reading. Therefore, this Regulation lays down European rules governing the use of electronic signatures, electronic stamps, time stamps, electronic delivery and the authentication of websites and electronic documents. Cross-border electronic digital transactions will finally become safer and easier to use on Europe's single digital market. The aim of this Regulation is to increase trust in electronic transactions on the internal market, to provide a common basis for secure electronic interaction between citizens, legal persons and public authorities, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the public and private on-line electronic business and electronic trade services in the Union. The Regulation shall apply directly and equally from 1 July 2016 in all 28 EU countries. In Croatia, we have only just begun to connect public legal authorities on a joint IT platform to build a modern system of administration as joint tasks of organisation, information and communication infrastructure. During the course of its operation, public legal authorities should first use their own information or information that they can obtain on their own with as little user engagement as possible. For example, the administrative body should not require users to obtain information already contained in another management body but should seek information in the public register by electronic means. In this way, it would help to simplify behaviour and time savings and a growing part of the procedures would rely on the use of information stored or processed in information systems and on software solutions with a reduction of bureaucratisation of the process, standardisation of behaviour and thus reducing the possibility of human error. All of the above will result in a reduction in administrative burden on users, public administration services and certainly a reduction in the need to use the communication channel, i.e. Shuttle and direct contact with public administration employees. By including in the Croatian legal system of Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. on electronic identification in trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market, a legal framework is created that will also help the development of state information systems faster. Therefore, the adoption of this Implementing Act is also necessary in order to eliminate legal uncertainty due to the current application of the old e-signature law to be abolished after the adoption of this Implementing Act. What is related to law enforcement itself, so the law actually regulates who in which way and what should be done so that we can apply this regulation throughout Croatia. And of course it's to say hello. That is why the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33688	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33689	Thank you. My dear colleague, you have spoken a good part of your exposure to the fact that the authorities of the state administration should only use one information about the citizen and not collect them again. This has already been settled by the State Information Infrastructure Act some 2 and more years ago. The only problem with this law is that it's been in the implementation phase for two years and what it actually takes for such a thing to take a little longer for the whole state to come to that stage of knowledge. And this law also, very, very much helps to make something like this happen. And yet another comment, it is said here that the issue of electronic voting in Croatia and everything else. I very responsibly and consciously argue that the issue of electronic voting in the Republic of Croatia is not a matter of more technique or technology than a purely policy issue. Croatia has electronic ID cards for some 2 years which have certificates on it and so that all citizens can do it online, by electronic means, sign how you can think of it, via the Internet as a public notary. Croatia has a top-of-the-line information list of voters that is done properly, I am not entering its contents, but informically as all is resolved. And what Croatia today is in a situation where, without any problems with the project from about half a year to year, it can make that step without a problem and make an electronic vote in whatever elections we want. So today it is no longer a question of technology, of organization, but of purely political desire and will. Nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33690	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33691	Well, with one big part of what you said, I agree, but I don't think it's just a political question how quickly we're going to introduce it. We also have a lot of technical difficulties. And as for what you said about IDs, well maybe that's a good example because exactly what you're saying two years ago has already been identified, but a good part of our citizens doesn't have that new card. And of course here and that's an example where it's actually taken us a long time to replace all these cards so that we can use them in the same way and unified them for all the citizens. So, on the one hand, this regulation provides a legal framework, we also need technical resources, we also need financial resources. And I think the political will of all of us must be that we introduce it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33692	Thank you. The second line was reported by representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33693	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd like to say that all the big changes in society are starting with small steps. And as a colleague on the other side of the assembly said, we did take small steps in introducing electronic business in general in the Republic of Croatia a few years ago. And it is good that, even today, by introducing this regulation, we are in fact creating safer normative frameworks for invigorating e-business. I remember the fact and the situation when we offered in the local government to the citizens that they could file an e-mail application. However, what I must say is that, gradually a few years ago, citizens were so few years ago and they were mistrustful about it, but eventually they saw all the advantages of that system. And I think that when we're like that in retirement, the situation is going to be a lot different than it is today, and that a large percentage of the population will really use it as a normal electronic business in all segments of life, and that there really won't be any more of this so that each other's bodies don't cooperate and don't share the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33694	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33695	Well, I think you've completely hit your colleagues with this theme. So on the one hand, citizens may have a little more skepticism about anything they do about computers, but day by day, I think we're overcoming it more and more. And the best thing that tells us is just the trade that actually started the internet and this regulation and the introduction into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the application of the regulation and this law that allows us to fully implement it. It only adds to the security of the whole process, and I think that sooner and faster, and with all the other areas, we're going to introduce an online, or some e-government, or e-functioning system like the public from, say, pulling out all our documents, until we really do what our colleagues said and we're going to vote in a way to get through our ID card, and after that, we can do it or do it on the Internet from home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33696	Thank you. And we're moving on to one individual debate, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33697	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. When we talk about the proposal for a law implementing the European Parliament Regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market, we talk about something that is definitely an EU interest, means a single digital market, and what when we look at movements in the world, we see how much the EU lags behind certain legislations of developed economies, such as the United States, while we negotiate a single market in the EU, while adopting Directive 2014 on the European Council and then in the European Parliament. So until it reaches all EU members, while they adopt it in the Parliament or in the parliaments by their own years. So this must be about four, five years of process. So, for example, on the U.S. market, a company worth 30, 40 billion dollars like the UBER that did it in three, four years. And basically we see how much it takes to work on digital economy and the digital market developing Europeanly and legally trying to regulate it as soon as possible. And perhaps it is also possible to be more efficient in this area to see if we can allow the part and legislation to be made simpler, that some things are resolved at EU level, the European Commission, and that certain things are only ratified to make this whole process faster. Because the digital economy is a matter of speed, a matter of innovation and a matter of what, unfortunately, we do not have fast arrangements in the EU yet, quick ideas and rapid reactions. And on this side, I support this, of course, and the possibility that today, after this law is applied tomorrow, it is possible in Croatia via the Internet and with the signature of opening companies, trades, certain activities, all that we want our citizens in Croatia to do via the Internet. So here, I couldn't agree more. I'm sorry, I don't see why this didn't work out in two readings to speed up the whole procedure. Because I say as long as we are in Europe agreeing, while we all adopt this together in our parliaments in America, six times has turned around and made certain things that we do in Europe, unfortunately in Croatia do not use in the best possible way. We have a big market, we have potential, we have knowledge, but that part of the regulation is still not fast enough. I expect that, here it was a big debate with digital market commissioners to speed things up, because we simply can't deal with the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33698	Thank you. Darko Paric picked up the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33699	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. One of the nasty problems of the public administration, probably not only in us, but everywhere around it is the trombone of the system, one of the very nasty trombones that you said because today in the digital age, one technology develops in two years, after two years it is old and some new technologies come, revolutions happen for three to four years and rotate billions and I don't know what everything doesn't. And it takes us a few years in the country to change the law or it takes us not so much, it takes us years to change the law, but it takes us a few years to enforce that law. Another big problem is that a bunch of our laws and business processes are out there in the '70s, '80s, '90s, when there was no technology at all that we have today. So you in most of the country today when someone sends an email to a ministry, this email is received in the office business by printing and then being accepted as a written document because the state has no office business at all that is adapted to electronic office business as it is today. Or if we do something to adjust the time that's today, then we make it so random to rewrite those processes that were before. We're working with computers like they're still paperwork. And the foundation of this whole story is misunderstanding. What the HDZ colleague said, which people neither understand too much nor understand too much. And how do you solve that? It's an education. We have a State School for Public Administration, we have different schools in the state of public administration that should actually be done in the present and future more in education of their employees in this particular segment. Because we're free of any reform, reorganization of whatever you want, unless we start informing the business process, but in all segments, from the forest to the industry, however big the progress will be. This is just something we can't escape, so we need to move as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33700	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33701	Well, you're right, you're a colleague of Price's, especially that segment of the state administration is important. So when I talk about the services of citizens and what they can do through the information of the state administration, it's a shame that there are no colleagues from MOST who cover that part in the government and I think it's a very interesting topic. And sometimes with a chill and regret I see how, say, in the Netherlands, they vote drive and, come with a car, register by application, vote, almost electronically and move on. So we unfortunately don't have that step yet and I hope we have it. So there doesn't need much or wisdom, no solutions already exist, just needs to be decided and gone in that direction. And as for the economy, I don't know, maybe it's really a problem in some segments the EU will have to find a certain homogenisation, synergy, leave part of sovereignty especially on the subject, so when we talk about national security, defence, citizen standard, social security, it's the office that states are holding firm their sovereignty and trying or monetary authorities are trying to find some space. But when it comes to trade, especially digital trade, that's where the digital economy would have to find a model to leave part of sovereignty to make these activities go faster because if they don't go faster, then you have a situation that I just said earlier. By the time a $50 billion business is created in America, we still do not adopt the directives adopted in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33702	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm sorry, and look, now that the debate's over, you've brought it in. ... But Mr. Pernar, you've been sitting here for 45 minutes and now you've just submitted your application. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, since you're just looking for excessors, feel free to say what you've got. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33703	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing another one to say so in the Brussels directive, while at the same time Croatian citizens are failing and it is falling deeper and faster and faster. I'd like to warn you that Mrs. Licul of the river we saved yesterday from dejection has informed me that she is planning a river court in secret to depose her. This is one serious problem, because we are talking about European law here, European standards and European directives, and what are they doing? They're putting an executive and an executive in an unequal position. In fact, the Court of Justice has only notified a specific legal action in advance of, say, an executive, and not an executive, and thus the two parties are not equal in the process, and the equality of the parties in the procedure has been the basis of the right since the time of Rome. Our Constitution also says that laws must not be discriminatory. The implementing law, which puts executives and executives in an unequal legal position, is discriminatory against the perpetrators. And I appeal that unlike all these amendments, we deal with the issue of secret actions because they are a disgrace to our society. And on this occasion, I'm hinting to HDZ that if by any chance they create Mrs. Licul's secret occupancy that I'm going to make a show and a circus like they haven't seen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33704	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33705	The proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation now follows. 910/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93 EC first reading, P.Z.E. No. 100. Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal to implement the EU Regulation is hereby adopted. 910/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93 EC. All comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account on the occasion of the completion of the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. I find that with 119 votes for and 2 abstentions, not one against, most votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33706	We move on to the following debate: - Selection, appointment and resolution, I ask the Chairman of the Justice Committee Arsen Bauk to explain the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Attorney's Council of Representatives and: - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the State Judicial Council. I suggest we unite these two points in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33707	Thank you, Madam Vice President. For members of the State Judicial Council from the Justice Committee's session held on 14 March with 10 votes in favour and 1 vote against, Orsat Milenic and Miroslav Simic proposed. And for the members of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives, unanimously Drazen Bošnjakovic and Peđa Grbin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33708	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. If no one calls for a hearing, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. For today, we'll be done with today's work. Tomorrow we begin the debate, or the day, with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Paris Agreement. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33709	We would now move on to the choice, appointments and resolutions, or to a vote on the discussed proposals of the Justice Committee. First, the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State's Attorney's Board of Representatives. Second, the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Judicial Council of the Office of Representatives. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to name Dražan Bosnjakovic and Pedja Grbin for members of the National Attorney's Council of Representatives. Please engage and let's vote. 117 votes for, 1 abstention, no one against, I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed by the Justice Committee. Two, I am voting on a proposal to name Orsat Milenic and Miroslav Simic for members of the State Judicial Council. Please engage and let's vote. 118 votes for, 1 abstention, no one against, I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed by the Justice Committee. Congratulations to the elected MPs. I now ask the President of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Genders of Ante Sanader to explain the proposal for other decisions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Sauche be resolved, and Milanka Opačić is proposed as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33712	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the argument, I'm closing it. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please vote. 118 votes for, none abstention, none against, I find that a decision has been reached unanimously as proposed by the board. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33713	It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament be resolved. Orsat Milenić, and Davor Vlaovic, vice president of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee, is proposed. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Sauche be dismissed, and that Mr. Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33714	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the argument, I'm closing it. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please engage and let's vote. 116 votes for, none abstentions, none against, so the decision taken unanimously as proposed by the committee. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33715	The decision of the Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Mr Tomislav Sauche is proposed and Bojan Glavasevic is proposed as vice-president of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33716	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 117 votes for, 1 abstention, none against, I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed by the board. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33717	A member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Sauche is proposed, and Domagoj Hajduković is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33718	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 118 votes for, none abstention, none against, I find that a decision has been reached unanimously as proposed by the board. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33719	It is proposed that members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament Predrag Marić be resolved, and that Davor Bernardić be a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33720	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 118 votes for, 1 abstention, no one against, I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed by the board. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33721	The Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Davor Bernardić is proposed and Boris Lalovac is proposed as vice-president of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Boris Lalovac is proposed and Marko Vesligaj is proposed as a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33722	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 120 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a decision has been taken unanimously as proposed by the Committee. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33723	The Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Arsen Bauk is proposed and Orsat Milenic is proposed for the chairman of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33724	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, please vote. 113 votes for, 3 abstentions, no one against. I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed by the board. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33725	It is proposed as a member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament Mladen Madjer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33726	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please engage and let's vote. 119 for, 1 abstention, no one against. I find that most of the votes have been decided as proposed by the board. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33727	Davor Vlaović is proposed as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33728	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 115 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a decision has been taken unanimously as proposed by the board. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33729	Davor Vlaović is proposed as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33730	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 117 for, no one against, no one abstention. I find that a decision has been taken unanimously as proposed by the board. Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33731	The members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament are proposed by Ana-Marija Petin and Davor Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33732	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 114 for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that a decision has been taken unanimously as proposed by the Committee. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33733	The President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament Zdravko Ronka is proposed and Ana-Marija Petin is proposed as chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33734	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please, let's vote. 115 votes for, no one abstention, no one against. I find that a decision has been taken unanimously as proposed by the board. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33735	In the investigation committee for determining responsibility for the results of the management and availability of financial and other resources of the Immunological Institute are proposed for President Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, Vice-President Grozdana Perić, Secretary Marko Šimić, for members of Željka Josic, dr. Goran Dodig, Dr. Drago Prgomet, Ivan Celić, Rezimir Varda, Silvano Hrelja, Dr. Ivan Lovrinović, Tomislav Panenić, Krešo Beljak, Ana Komaprić Devčić, Marta Luc-Polanc, etc. Branko Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-16-0.u33736	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. In order to be able to make a full decision on the establishment of the Research Commission, I am voting on the proposal of the members of the Research Commission as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Please vote. 114 votes for, 1 abstention, no one against, I find that most of the votes are accepted by the Committee's proposal. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we get started. I've got a few hands, as usual or as usual for obvious breaks. Dear Representative Panenic was the first to raise.
