ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38842	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the MOST Club on the state of the HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38843	The Rules of Procedure are that I have to give you a break and I'd rather not. So it's a 19.50 break. [[It's the 19th 40th hour.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.55 HOURS]] We continue to work, please, my colleague, Nikola Grumoy, on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, to speak for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38845	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I called this break because of a bad situation on HRT, we all witnessed these deals that had been going through the media in the last few days, which damaged the public service. The key role was played by this friend Darinka Kosor, one of our fellow MPs, means Mislav Stipic, who was most advocated by our colleague Jasen Mesic and Darinko Kosor, the media wrote about the positive role that our president of the Parliament played on the whole and the situation on HRT, which I welcome if it is true, and I, on several occasions, already a colleague Jasen Mesic, warned of the influence of Mislav Stipic on HRT, but unfortunately, he also got from the new HRT Director Kazimir Bačić a high function, and that my warnings to my counterpart Mesic did not come upon fertile soil. However, what is much worse is that HRT does not fulfil its basic role as a public service, which is objective information. We have the fact that HRT is fully in the service of this government, I think anyone who looks a little better at the HrT Journal can see how they approach the processing of certain topics and events that occur on the Croatian political scene. If Prime Minister Plenkovic had at least 15 opening minutes of every journal and what's one huge problem, I have to, I had to call a break when I saw this. Do you know what the theme of tonight's Open is? The theme is Do you support the introduction of drastic punishments for walking in a bathing costume in the streets of tourist centers? So on the day it comes out in one week of documentation showing that Minister Maric knew about the exposure of Agrokor or companies associated with Agrokor, he had to warn his fellow ministers who voted for it on the Supervisory Board, and he basically told them and he pushed them to approve it, and then he said he was exempt because he was in conflict of interest. So he basically ordered them to do it as president. Here's our colleague, Ivana Nincevic, as a member of the Supervisory Board, didn't show up because they got the paperwork two days earlier. And well, counterpart Panenic pointed out, it cannot be expected from politicians, ministers who have their own portfolios, a huge job to get one extensive documentation to study it and then in two days they vote on it. Minister Maric knew all this. And on the day the entire opposition got up here in the Croatian Parliament, she asked for the resignations of the minister, the prime minister who continues to defend Minister Maric, we in the Open have about bathing costumes in tourist centres. So really this is too much, this is even too much for HRT, one of the editors of the Open Domagoj Novokmet has been replaced because, as he hasn't invited the jump to the show, and we all know that they don't respond to the press, that they don't want to participate in such shows, and so they found it, they asked him for the first false step to replace it, and then to have a champion Togonal, a first-time team of HDZ and now Death is going to do the topics, so just when we have these situations that require questioning to then place such a benign topic, a summer theme that will entertain the audience. So the topic is disclosure, tonight in the Open, but unfortunately, it is not the right exposure to what Croatian citizens are interested in, meaning the detection of crime in Agrokor, which is the disclosure both Minister Maric and Minister Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic are afraid of. I think it's time that everyone, I talked to the Minister Disposed while the HDZ and MOST negotiations were, and I was convinced that this woman understood the concept of public television and that it must be an impartial and objective medium, but apparently it was just a story, we have never worse party television from those blackest communist times.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38901	Before we go any further, a colleague of Hajdash Doncic asked for it. My colleague Maras asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38902	We're looking for a break, so a colleague here made a note, I mean, it's not a problem with me, but he's recording. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38903	And wait a minute, so make a deal, who's looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38904	It's okay. On behalf of the SDP club, we are looking for a break, so the topic is Maric and a loan in HBOR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38905	How much? Ten minutes enough? Okay. [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38906	I'm also looking for a break on the situation in Croatian diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38907	Okay. I'll give you 10 minutes... Well, here you go, Mr. Bull, raise your hand nicely so he can see you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38908	The Honorable Chairman, so here's the first I raised my hand, come on that you've been through so you've given two behind and that's where your assistant saw it, and now at the end of the day it turns out that you almost said that we don't have a break on behalf of the MOST Club. So I'd like to ask the service that when we answer, I'm the first one up, that knows the entire Assembly, but that's the least of the problems, but I'm asking you to run it at least in some order.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38909	Let's cut it short, Mr. Bull, you'll get your first word, so we can work this out. What are you looking for, what are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38910	Here, a break on behalf of the 10-minute MOST club, means the current political situation regarding Agrokor and Minister Maric, new evidence that has leaked to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38911	Thank you. Since you have a lot of witnesses, you'll get your first word. Is there anyone else? There isn't. Ten minutes off and then first Mr. Bulj, then Mr. Hajdash Doncic, I guess, Mr. Hajdash, he's gone, then Maras and the third Mr. Glasovic. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. Okay, we're all here. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Mr. Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38913	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens. Today, documentation came out from HBOR, which shows that Zdravko Maric knew everything about what was going on in Agrokor. He silenced board members, he opted out by creating a 48.3m-euro loan. Even though he wasn't allowed to approve. Zdravko Maric came to the ministerial post to help Ivica Todorovic and helped him. Through HBOR, through a lack of tax control, all of it is known. Everything we should have said about him, we said three months ago, we have nothing to talk about if there's a crumb of honesty, he's going to resign today. What about the man who knew everything, about Zdravko Maric, and he absolutely didn't do anything? What to say about a man who didn't do anything, made him save him by paralysing the whole country for two months. I'm talking about a man who's acting first, highest executive function in the state, Prime Minister. First, the Prime Minister ignored, disobeyed, rejected all information and arguments that makes Zdravko Maric not a minister. So he overheard that tax oversight had not entered Agrokor d.d. for 10 years. But in Parliament he defended him especially for this HBOR loan. If he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. Secondly, he broke off his cooperation with the Most because we opposed it. He accused us of being a remetallic factor, that we were non-legal, that we could go out for five minutes, light a cigar, close our eyes. Third, because the Prime Minister, regardless of all the evidence, covered such a minister for two months, was led by state secretaries. Parliamentarians, fourth, were bought in a way that today you can still feel the pain. Fifthly, that's why the citizens were once again cheated on by local elections because they were all told there was no coalition between HDZ and HNS. Sixth, because of this kind of Prime Minister and his actions, the majority of parliament today is so much so that every vote in the Parliament on Fridays is a live thriller whether or not we're going to have a quorum. But that's why 572 times the Prime Minister said the word stability in a month. Stability for economic crime in Agrokor, stability for such concessions, stability for HEP sales 572 times. In this House, the Prime Minister found that Maric enjoyed his trust and that there is nothing controversial about HBOR's loan. Will the Prime Minister take five minutes off today, walk, close his eyes when he has to answer the question of what Zdravko Maric was doing in HBOR. I believe that they already have a ready answer to something in the style of stability, something like that it takes stability to make citizens feel stable we need to secure for our citizens a stable situation, so that they can stablely assess what they expect in the future. Stability and accountability are therefore extremely important 573 times. After these documents that came out today, it is clear that we were right about both this and the HDZ-HNS coalition, but it is no longer a question whether Zdravko Maric can be a minister, but whether Prime Minister Plenkovic will be responsible. Today is the time of disclosure, today is the time to show who has the cheek, the moment of which Andrej Plenkovic should then resign as Prime Minister after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38914	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38915	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't a funny topic, this is a serious topic. Maybe someone will take it casually, maybe it's interesting, maybe think as likely what they're thinking in HDZ we don't care, we have most of it, we can do whatever we want. But we can't keep our mouths shut about it as agents. I propose to all viewers today who see this as buying today's media, because they will see very clearly how one minister has deceived the Croatian public, i.e. citizens, us in the Croatian Parliament, and how the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also done the same. I can't know if Prime Minister Plenkovic read these reports, probably not because it's not his job. But Minister Maric, no matter what was excluded from the vote, he won these materials as chairman of the Supervisory Board. All the ministers in the government who sat there got these materials. And when you look at these materials, none of these companies have unconditionally, i.e. a positive view of lending, none of these companies, none of these companies are included in the programmes for which they were credited. And what's the biggest paradox I could do now as ad hoc for a quick look in the morning, the main remark there people who work at HBOR is an analysis of the giving of these loans is that no HROK reports have been delivered. So the state bank, HBOR gave credit without seeing all the credit obligations that this group and these companies have. Now let me make it simple for you, my citizens who are watching us. When you're raising a loan, the basic prerequisite is to give that report so people who analyze the risk will be able to get that loan back to see if you're in charge anywhere. In this situation, it's not given. So how is that possible? It really looks like you've entered the Consume and you're taking something to sell at one price or another without any responsibility and without any economic logic. This is impossible. So I believe this document was seen by Minister Maric. It's impossible for someone to say they didn't know anything about the loan afterwards. It's impossible he wasn't familiar with these risks no matter what he didn't vote for. If not, he should have done everything to prevent other ministers from voting for the loan and not to lose 50m euros. So if he didn't vote, if he got out, he should have informally influenced all the ministers sitting there, members of the Supervisory Board and told them don't vote for that loan. It's not worth the risk we're getting into. I'm exposed as an ex-employee, I've made an exception myself, but you don't vote. I would like the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to understand number one that it is not true what we were listening to here when it was debated about Minister Marić, when he said he was not aware of the loan at all, that it was not true what Minister Dalic said, that these were impeccable companies, which were able to get credit without a problem, because these reports show that this is not the case. So we were both lied to by Minister Maric and Minister Dalic. For the diameter of Plenkovic, I cannot say, but it is obvious that he probably didn't know about this information, which is most likely hidden from him by Minister Dalic and Minister Maric, because if not, then also Prime Minister Plenkovic should resign. Here they are responsible for the liner's formal responsibility of Minister Dalic and Minister Maric. Their responsibility is such that they should be resolved today. As Prime Minister Plenkovic did with ministers from his government, especially the ministers of Mosta. We ask him today to resolve these two ministers who knew the information, who knowingly lied to the public and who lost 50m euros in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38916	Thank you, too. Mr. Glasonović, yes, Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38917	Dear colleagues... Thank you, Mr. Shucker. You've been here 20 years. You could handle it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Greetings to the Croats outside the country, in the country, in the BiH. [[Intruder Radin: Please let Mr. Glasnović speak.]] Like this, it's said that politics is about human policy. What about Croatian diplomacy, then, for the past 20, 30 years, from the independence of the Croatian state? What's going on? Let's look back a little bit, what kind of personnel were installed there, gamblers, one half a million kunas there spent gambling in Las Vegas, Sydney, the ambassador stole furniture from the embassy, put in a container with expensive wine cards and sent for Croatia. We also have not only wine smuggling, we also have sexual access, where one touched a maid in Israel, got a transfer, etc., recently we have a case of zuphylia. Scary, European Parliament, what do you get? We didn't get it, from Croatian diplomacy we got the isolation of the Croatian diaspora, where they... Investments, there's not one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about economic diplomacy? Again, I repeat, the total isolation of the Croatian diaspora, for 3 years people have been waiting for citizenship, the last stop is the Chernomerac, where it got in there in the MUP, you have former UDBE personnel there, about 700 have been intruded into the MUP and secret service. People see it, diaspora isn't as kidnapped as it used to be. Not before some heirs sat on my left here, the press, the most powerful weapon of our party, people saw what was happening. Recently, in Frankfurt, an investigation was launched in Germany against the ambassadors, in fact a consular representative upstairs, where he was an associate of the former state of UDBE. How can these people work outside? Because it's a criminal organization, which has executed more assassinations outside the country, actually in Europe than in all the services of the Bosnian Pact. That's how it is. They're sitting out there, and people are watching it. And what can an average Croatian think when he sees such traits, ex-sugars, Kosovos, etc., which... in the Croatian diaspora? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's impossible. You've got an example now. The same example in the judiciary. You have one document here, people are running for the Constitutional Court, for the Supreme Court, so here's a document here that handled our secret service in '93, code name Vrbnik, associate of Kosa, military prosecution, etc. The magic word frustration has nothing to do with this, as some say here to deal with the past, is that, the apparatus that today rules Croatia, that left, right wing UDBE, it must go. They have no moral right to do anything on behalf of the Croatian people, because if we allow it, that war was for nothing. Thank you Mr. Bull, I listen to you here you could hear me, I listen to you every day, you could listen for 30 seconds. If that's not what you're interested in, there's a man here who says he's the one who's a follower of a conspiracy theory, who's saying that a parliamentary representative, that lizard people run global politics, disguised as human form. And there's a bunch of lizards inside of us, these ex-humans we can't go on without. They gave us 20, 30 years. And I remind you that today is also the day of the Holy Benedict Protector of Europe, and I think what Saint Benedict said, that those who have sown the poison here that they will drink this poison themselves, because as it goes now, it goes better looking, it comes to this extrossism, and very soon there will be a square of bloody locksmith where he belongs, on Jakushevec, should name it there a dump, down there. What's the future of the state, where the main staff and politics lead the people like a bulldozer, boss... from the coal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is that possible? What do we have to do with such a state? In all other countries, apart from post-communist in Europe, the EU, all have done some kind of illustration, and some are holding it back and they know what will happen when the truth is learned. They're the ones who got us back. We are today instead of being Singapore, Southeast, Central Europe, we are today, I would say Guatemala South Central Europe. There's no capital investment here, so for thief's sake, we're being run by the state in general, not everyone, there are individuals, they have false academic titles. And there's still progress, not by integrity, professionalism, but by relationships. I wonder how many people are sitting here with fake academic titles? That needs to be cleared up, too. I repeat again, these people no longer have... modes, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't have room in this country anymore. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mr. Glasnović, time is up, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38918	Okay. Mr. Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38993	Thank you, Chairman. He would ask for a break to discuss the cover-up of cases of child sexual abuse by Catholic priests, who are conducted by state institutions headed by a child lawyer Ivana Milos Klaric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38994	Do you feel safe enough to perform right now or do we have to take a break? Here you go. [[We can do it right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38995	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, 6.7 means a few days ago, on New TV, on the screen, she led the show, Ivana Paradjikovic, was a story of a shocking case, meaning where the bishop's secretary, the priest sodomized the boy. And not only did he sodomize him, but he cut him with a razor blade. The boy says that the abuse began, when he was only 13 years old and at the end of the day when it was all obtained by a court epilogue, originally the priest was sentenced only to a year in prison. And there comes a new shower, because later judgment is changed to work for the greater good. So we have an obvious case of pedophilia. And now what's going on? The public doesn't know about it, the victim doesn't talk about it outside, so I repeat, the public doesn't know about it, the victim doesn't talk about it publicly. And what's going on? You think the priest is out of the service? No, he's not out of the service, he's just being transferred to another parish and he's abused another boy there again. Now what happens, when that first boy saw it, that he was still molesting and doing evil to other children, he went public. He talked about the show Open. Now what I'm interested in is why does the Croatian public know nothing about this abuse case? Why research shows, instead of state institutions, deal with such cases. So it's to expect that the Catholic Church will cover pedophile within its ranks. They do it all over the world. It's a common practice for them. But what's shocking is that state institutions are silent about it. It is shocking that the Ombudsman for children, Ivana Milas Klaric, has not made a public announcement today about the case. This serious case of violation of all children's rights is actually a serious abuse. Instead of such cases where children are sodomized and cut with a razor blade, which is clearly repeated, it deals with whether Ivan Pernar took pictures with a child. So she's having a dispute when a student stops me and says "Pernar can I take a picture with you?" And that's where attorney Ivana Milas Klaric sees the problem. And at the same time, they're accusing me of not knowing that I'm abusing children, etc. And at the same time the priest sodomizes children and commits violence against them, if he does not talk about it, about Ivana Milas Klaric silences and then she does not call the institutions to stop this priest he can no longer work with the children, she does not say it, no, which will say that she really violence against the children what the worst form is actually not interested at all. It's too high to say that the child who was the victim of this violence has been committing suicide for years. These priests wanted them to be monstrous, but that's how these priests defend themselves. So the priest is defending himself in court that a 13-year-old boy was a volunteer act, that it wasn't about rape, that it gave consent. That's how they defend themselves, and that defense goes away, they only get a year's work for the common good. And ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that, by any chance, one of you MPs of the Parliament has, for years, sodomized a child and cut it with a razor blade, would you or we get a prison sentence or work for the greater good? Not if we didn't get a job for the common good, we'd get a prison sentence and they'd be punished and crucified by all the media, but when a priest does that, he'd be protected. And why it is protected, is a question that should be asked by the Ombudsman for children Ivana Milas Klaric, who should be the first to discuss such cases, but it seems that everyone will talk about it before her. Why? Because the interest of children is not the first because it uses children to achieve some of its personal goals and instead of dealing with real violence against children, terrible and disgusting cases of abuse, it deals with Milan Popovic, Ivan Pernar, etc. Why? So to create an illusion that she's doing something, to create an illusion that she's prone to children, and it's clear that her children are in the last place. For this reason, I call upon everyone if you have any conscience that when the vote comes on her recall or her shift to support her because she is no longer the guardian of children, she is simply incompetent, irresponsible or corrupt and still silent as I have told you about these most monstrous cases that the media are talking about, but she is silent and not answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38996	Okay, I didn't stop you from having no authority to do that, but I do have my opinion on why today came to the agenda this performance of yours, but it's your right. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38997	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38998	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the SDP Club I ask for a break of 10 minutes in order to express our disfavor with the way we work and fear that we will not succeed with such a dynamic as you have imagined to pass all the points you intended today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u38999	Okay. Sure, go ahead. For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u39000	Vice President, I'm asking nicely for a break on behalf of the Independent Club, I almost wrongly said, independent and HSU for the same reasons that the distinguished colleague told today's work of the Parliament and the points proposed come into the agenda in the late evening hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u39001	Of course I'll take a break, of course. Then I'll see you at 16.30. It's 4:15 a.m. Here's a colleague and a colleague, a break has expired, and first on behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u39003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club has asked for a break for the reason that, regardless of the fact that the President of the Parliament wants us to finish a good part of the session by the summer constitutionally guaranteed break, so we've also got ourselves at quite a pace, and I believe that we, at least those present in this assembly and colleagues who are present every day, are not the problem of being here and discussing the points, if we have to do long-to-night. However, today's situation, given that it is now 16.30 that we work all day without a break, and that we are on the second item of the agenda scheduled for today's session, that the clubs have not yet expressed their views, we are in a situation that at 16.30 we have another 4 points to discuss for today's work. Two points transferred from yesterday's session is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Water for Human Consumption and the Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the consumption of funds in 2016... Yeah, witness protection. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. So we have 4 points, by the end of the day, if we exclude what was transferred from yesterday for today, with you making another unusual actually, an unusual proposal, which is that today, without this being planned by the end of the week, we are discussing a proposal for a regional development strategy by 2020. Apparently, that point will come to the agenda deeply, deeply this night. This is an important document, as far as the number of Croatian citizens and units of local self-government is concerned, and we believe that we should remove this item from the agenda, today's session, also because of the great public interest and for the sake of importance, we also believe that the proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for children, with the final draft of the law, should be moved perhaps for tomorrow morning. Because if we push such important points, long, long into the night, then the question is what we really want to hide through this regional development strategy in 2020. It is very clear that at 4:30 now, we are on the second item of the agenda, there is no way that before, I don't know 2, 3 a.m., if not later we start to discuss the proposal for a Regional Development Strategy for 2020 and the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman. I don't think it's in your interest to create that impression that you want to deliberately avoid the debate and push it late into the night, when the public sleeps, when there's a small number of MPs here and here I'm asking you to respect our appeal, we can all get there by Friday, we need to get a little bit more organized. I know that the dynamics of the debate cannot be predicted as much as for these two points today. But now we see where we are, what's our transitional time, so let's adapt to that, let's make some concessions and reorganize ourselves a little differently, or organize ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u39004	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, will speak to the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u39005	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, half past five in the afternoon, we are in a position to have two more points in our debate today, or a bunch of points, but what I want to point out is to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children and the Regional Development Strategy. We don't mind getting the agenda for a week. We think it's extremely good. We get, we get ready, you know, in the Renaissance there were people who understood everything. We're here except maybe some of us don't think we understand each other. We try to prepare ourselves, try to argue, and really exist without somehow wanting to make a hierarchy more or less important. It's all important. But surely we're discussing the final bill, it's about the child's attorney, so we're making a single late-night Lex again, not by chance, but I'd say it's decided so. It's gonna be late, it's not gonna get any publicity, people are gonna go away, we're gonna go away a little bit, someone's gonna be tired, someone's not gonna be tired, and underneath the radar it's gonna go through, it's about an extremely important law. But my people, there is no one here, we can differ here, but when it comes to the regional development strategy, for the first time since the Croatian state, we are bringing a regional development strategy. It's such an important document, which requires a whole day's debate, that we prepare well, to argue. What do we want? We want her here at midnight on the agenda or at 1:00 a.m.? To remain only those who can listen long enough, so there will be 2, 3? Or worse, not to discuss it. Do we have any face, do we even have the strength to not discuss the regional development strategy? We may adopt it unanimously in the end. But my people, we have to discuss it, not because of us, in order for us to collect some kind of a minute of debate here, but because of Croatia. Croatia is in a situation of demographic disaster. One reason is to get out of one of these things are strategies because that's why we're doing an action plan. We have a regional development strategy for the first time. Where we have to define, how, what is the potential of individual regions. In which direction certain regions should develop. What's going on with Slavonia that we don't have much of a eviction? And what are we doing? We're going to make a nice conclusion that we're going to put her out there sometime after midnight with the idea maybe there'll be three left, four will give each other two, three replicas, and that'll pass we'll have a formal strategy. Me and our club don't want to have a formal strategy. We don't have a problem for a good strategy to raise a hand, but we have a big problem that she doesn't get the importance she needs, that we don't discuss it and that she doesn't even get the public's lights she needs to get. Only the most persistent will look at us, but it's less important who looks at us or doesn't watch us, who listens or doesn't listen, it's important that for the first time we bring the Regional Development Strategy and instead of having decided to discuss it all day, so eventually leave some changes and additions to the law that we're changing articles or two, which we decide to put behind midnight. Well, don't do that. Please don't do that. Give the strategy enough light to have, and equally the Law on the Ombudsman for the children let's discuss tomorrow morning. There's a reporter in the halls who's so freaked out that you'll have or won't have, journalists are talking about our work, what journalists are saying is seen by our citizens. Our citizens chose us to discuss, they chose to make decisions and let's do it, Attorney General, tomorrow morning. I ask nicely, give the strategy the importance it should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u39006	Thank you very much. So I can only say that the agenda is as it is suggested, that the fact that a small number of MPs are here now, a small number of MPs were unfortunately here in the morning, and there was a discussion about many things that may not have had to be guided by my taste, but it was the right for MPs to lead and talk about whatever they want and whatever they want. So it's not up to me to assess whether people came forward about things they may not have had to talk about, it's the right of every MP to speak. Seven points were scheduled, three points were removed and three points were placed, thus remaining on the same number of points as planned. None of them have increased the number of dots. Please, we're not yelling, we're not yelling from the bench, but we're going to keep working to be as effective as possible to get to those right points as possible. If you think these aren't important points, then we don't have to discuss them, we can shorten the debate. It depends on us how long we will be discussing a point, if something some say is "less important" points of debate very much, then we may not have enough time to discuss those "more important points".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44533	Good: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 164 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to everyone in the boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the reports you received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary Tomislav Mihotić of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44534	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives. The current Electronic Communications Act was adopted in 2008 and has been amended and complemented four times over the past period, primarily because of the need to align with changes in the relevant EU acquis in the field of electronic communications networks and services. This proposal proposes the fifth amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications, which will further comply with EU legislation. Basic issues that are regulated by law. This law proposes to regulate the following most important issues, the transposition of the remaining provisions of Directive 2014/61 of the EU on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks that are regulated by physical infrastructure within a building adapted to high-speed electronic communications networks and access to that infrastructure, the establishment of a legal framework for effective direct application in the domestic legal order of EU Regulation 2015/2120 on access to the Open Internet and Regulation EU/920 on roaming in mobile networks or the abolition of retail roaming charges, further harmonisation of the provisions on a single European emergency number 112 and e-call with the relevant acquis of the EU, the regulation of the conditions of building of electronic communications infrastructure and high-speed public funds in accordance with the Operational Programme for Emergency Services, 112 and e-calling with the relevant legal framework for the implementation of Croatia's access to the EU budgets budgets. The objectives achieved by passing laws will remove obstacles to the setting of high-speed electronic communications networks to the end-users of services, which primarily relate to the absence or non-compliance of existing physical infrastructures within buildings and to difficult access to operators of electronic communications networks intended to set up high-speed electronic communications networks in several residential buildings. This will provide all legal assumptions for the achievement of the based objective, which is to reduce costs and facilitate the setting up of high-speed electronic communications networks, which further encourages and accelerates the achievement of the Digital Agenda for Europe's objectives. In addition, by prescribing the conditions for promoting the construction of electronic communications infrastructure and high-speed networks of public funds in commercially inexplicable areas of the state, it will enable full implementation of the Strategy for the development of broadband access to the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2016 to 2020 and the Framework National Programme for the Development of Broadband Access Infrastructure in areas where there is insufficient commercial interest in investments, which are already allocated under the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion of 2014-2020. The adoption of this law will provide for a legal framework for the demonstration of market interest for the construction of that infrastructure as well as for the appropriate criminal sanctions in the event of failure to fulfil the obligations undertaken. And another addition, the amendment of the Legislative Committee is accepted, it was an amendment to the article 36 behind the words “RITT equipment” and “protection and rescue” are added to the words “in a certain number and drop”. Nomotechnically supplementing the expression we accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44535	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. You have five replicas, the first is Mr. Marco Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44536	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. I have a question regarding this law, the Law on Electronic Communications, which is why Article 28 of the draft law removes the provision that, apart from the manager of the general goods and the owner of the property and the real estate manager himself, the procedure for the establishment of an infrastructure operator for electronic communications infrastructure built on the general good or on the real estate referred to in Article 27(1) of this Act may be launched before the Agency. This means determining the quantity and type of such infrastructure and the amount of compensation for the right path. What exactly is this about? The thing is that property managers are mostly part of the local self-government unit to which it is an operator, which is a society, Croatian Telekom is obliged to pay compensation for the right path. And we now rather than simplify this procedure and allow local units but also the Republic of Croatia to make it easier for them to exercise the right to which they fully have it under the law, we make it difficult by this law. And in the draft draft law of March, i.e. from February 2017, this provision stood. I believe that this directly favours the Croatian Telecom operator who does not pay or pay compensation to local units in a much smaller amount than it should under the law. Here's what I'm going to ask the Proposer to answer this question and explain why these changes took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44537	Thank you, too. The second replica of Mr. Nicole Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44538	Dear Vice President, so I'm not going to ask the questions, I noticed yesterday that the law that was in the e-consultation is not the same law that we got here today. So we had this very concept of real estate manager in our consultation. It was an observation by the HT and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry rejected the remark that the Law would come before us in which it had no idea what had changed during that period was that a meeting was held in the government, the president of the administration and his close associate, Ms. Misetic, with the Prime Minister. It's the only thing that's changed in this period and it's come before us like this. I will not ask questions, I have concrete amendments that I will attach, which will allow units of local self-government to make compensation so as not to continue to draw money from Croatia, so that HT does not avoid paying municipalities and cities of this fee and so that Mr. Tomašković and the rest of the team from the Croatian Telekom administration do not receive bonuses on this withdrawal of money from Croatian municipalities and cities, ultimately from our citizens, but during the debate I will present it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44539	Thank you. Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here are colleagues before me and colleagues Vesligaj and Grmoi noticed the fundamental problem of this law, because although this law may seem uninteresting to the public and viewers who are following us through television, it is essentially directly after the meeting in the government on 9 June of this year with the T-com administration's president in the direction of direct favoring Mr. Tomašković's bonus bonus and that is what this HDZ government is like, and that is the government that is constantly calling for patriotism to betray Croatian national interests, and this is no longer an accident since in the last few months we have several laws that have turned directly against Croatian citizens like that. Lex Agrokor, which pleases one man at the expense of all Croatia. Well then we have a situation a week ago of the concession law that was quietly pushed into this House for a vote, so there wouldn't be a reaction right now. And now that can't be an accident anymore. I just want to know how the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, will look into the eyes of his colleagues from HDZ, mayors and mayors of municipalities all over Croatia, which he has the most in Croatia right from the ranks of HDZ and he directly takes from them the funds of local self-government. I think they will only get these funds by this law driven to long-term court proceedings for which many of our municipalities especially in undeveloped areas of Croatia such as Slavonia and Dalmatian Zagora have no means at all to start some litigation or to compete with T-com for the next 5 years and to compete from 2008 to today. But mostly HDZ's government is a government that favors large capital, favours banks, and we now see that this is the agenda of the government's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44541	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we see the law that we are, we are discussing a very important law which was essentially meant to be in the protection of our interests, the interests of local self-government, individuals, the Law on Electronic Communications, is essentially nothing but a continuation of favoring foreign companies or teleoperators, and this is visible from the speech of my predecessors where everything seems to harm our local self-government, meaning by throwing out the property manager in fact the largest part of the money where our land is used in Croatia will go to Germany, will go there, or will buy in Montenegro, T-com expand or Davor Tomašević will decide where that money will go. The interest of local self-government is to fill the budget, to build infrastructure in this area, to charge for what has been taken from us in a manner that is our telephone infrastructure paid by our fathers and you older ones who listen to us. However, it is not in the interest of the Croatian man, the prime minister is from this meeting and you colleagues who represent this, you benefit from foreign teleoperators who fire our employees, our people and all their profits are being transferred to other countries and boasting that they are buying in other spaces and spreading their networks. This is one, a shameful throw-off to remove a part that is very large after public debate, which can be measured in billions at the expense of Croatia. Not only did we sell it to them, i.e. Is for nothing, our phone infrastructure, this is also an indicator that the optical network will also go into foreign hands and the people will need to prevent it. All the laws that we bring here are exclusively done in the interest of individuals to position themselves in the European Council and on the burden of local and regional self-government and state self-government and every man in Croatia, shame [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Bulj, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44543	Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44544	Thank you very much. I beg you, so after six lines that will be one and the same to rise and answer, you didn't even mention it in the debate, which is why there isn't. Which is why the money our units of local self-government have received from the operator should no longer be received. Especially when it comes to equipment that our people have been building for decades with their money, paying their connections, and especially because it is not privatised, although one operator is systematically saying that it is privatized, but it is not privatized and under the development of a business climate of simplicity, cheaper investment, to abolish such a provision to please someone, it is about tens and hundreds of millions of kunas. The largest cities, of course, have the biggest income from it, I find it odd that, let's say, the party that is part of the ruling coalition will support the proposal and in the city of Zagreb will lose tens of millions of kuna per year of income on the continuum of these fees. So on this side, first of all, we need to explain to our people why we're going in favor of the operator, why we're cutting them off a fee that's fair because they didn't build that network before the 1990s, but they were building people up with their phone bills and what I'm sure now is that the state needs to invest in optics and digital integration, and that this infrastructure should be part of one national interest and equally accessible to all operators. So, we must never again get into a situation where a company, whatever its name is, has a monopoly on digital data transmission and I hope that the government will finally understand and please answer after six replicas to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44545	Mr. Grmoya in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44546	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of 2015, the regulation of relations between our municipalities and cities, units of local and regional self-government and HT in a way that units of local self-government submit requests to HACOM in order to regulate property-legislative relations with electronic communications infrastructures passing over real estate and owned by them, or under their management. And the exercise of the right to compensation that belonged to them in accordance with the provisions of the certification and compensation Regulation for the right of way. Following the adoption of a solution by HACOM, it would be accessible to conclude contracts between municipalities, cities and HT, with the application of certain provisions of the law and the application of the fees prescribed by the Regulations on certification and compensation for the right of way. However, in mid-March 2016, the conditions for the service of real estate to municipalities and cities and the level of compensation per metre were agreed on in agreement. HT fully regulates relations with municipalities and cities, and unilaterally amends agreed terms and conditions and starts obstructing the regulation of property-legal relations with local self-government units. HT is no longer paying any compensation to almost anyone today, which has been detailed by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure since over 60 units of local self-government from all parts of the Republic of Croatia have sent letters prohibiting HT and all other operators from serving real estate in their possession and under their management without any legal basis, and without regulated property-legal relations. By this Lord who sits here, by the same name of the ministry, he has done absolutely nothing. Since 2012, the State audit has warned local self-government units, meaning municipalities and cities that they must obtain funds from the basis in question because they are otherwise acting on the damage of municipalities and cities. So the mayors and the commissioners had to make the proceeds. In addition, many units of local self-government have been declared areas of special state concern and cannot, in accordance with the applicable regulations, regulate their relations with HT, which directly damages the state budget, because they receive funds in the form of various support and themselves cannot obtain what they own under the law. How much, I'm going to ask a simple question, a state budget damaged and who's going to answer for it? So HT has been using an unsettled land-booked state in the Republic of Croatia and has stolen from this base the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government, natural and legal persons several billion kunas since their arrival, meaning since the arrival of Deutsche Telekom in the Republic of Croatia and continues to do so daily. Every year, the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government, natural and legal persons have been stolen and cut off by hundreds of millions of kunas, and the state is in charge of the world and we have these money that we don't take from HT or Deutsche Telekom, how many million kunas do you still need to lose RH and local self-government units to do something about it? I ask the question here to Minister Butkovic here, so to the present representatives of the Ministry of Transport, who will be responsible for the stolen billions of kuna from this base that was drawn as the profit of Deutsche Telekom and how much will be the bonus of Davor Tomaskovic and the rest of the HT Administration for this drawn money? Both these amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, which were discussed in the first half of 2017, again in an extremely non-transparent way, are trying to please the HT. Namely, the law that is given to e-consultation and this law that we are discussing today, dear colleagues and colleagues, are not the same laws. This law, which was in the e-consultation of Article 28(6), excludes the notion of a real estate manager. What happened to HT or Deutsche Telekom HT and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce during the consultation made observations. These remarks the ministry refuses, and then it means that they are expelled, that is to say, acting on their request, and here on our benches we get this kind of law. What happened in that period? It happened that on Friday, 16.6.7. met in the government of the HT administration, Davor Tomaskovic, in the company of his close associate, the director of the Office of the Croatian Telecom's Office, Ariana Bazale Misetic, whose daughter is Tena Misetic, the deputy head of the prime minister's cabinet. The public still doesn't know what the subject of the meeting was and whether the consequences of the meeting were such a bill. So, during the public debate or e-consultation, the observations of HT and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce reached on this concept of real estate manager. However, the Ministry of Transport rejected the statement. But imagine in the law that came before us today as parliamentary representatives, he has no idea. Given the current situation in which HT pays nothing and no one in Croatia on this basis, and that Minister Butkovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic intend nothing to do to protect their national interest, and that the Republic of Croatia, our municipalities and cities, ultimately our citizens, would exercise their legal rights in a way that governs property-legal relations and that they would receive fair cash compensation, I would give an amendment to this amendment and supplementing the law that would facilitate the passage of the true path, and units of local self-government would be easier to achieve the right to this legal compensation. So, by amendment, I'm going to propose a provision whereby the right-of-way fee belongs to the local self-government unit in whose area the property is located if the owner is unknown. Actually, that means next. Until the owner of the property is established, the fees shall belong to the cities or municipalities. When the owner is established and entered in the Land Book, the fee will go to him, and he can't retroactively ask for compensation from HT after his right of ownership has been established, so no one is damaged by such an amendment except that our municipalities and cities, and thus our citizens get the money that stays in Croatia and does not go to Germany and that, on the basis of this money that goes to Germany to receive the bonus Davor Tomaskovic, that there are also certain benefits from Mrs Misetic. And I'm asking here a question and that possible conflict of interest. It is therefore necessary to stress that the right to cash compensation belongs to both legal and physical persons, and that, according to rough estimates in the case of non-adjustment of the proposed changes and the addition of the annual loss, means the Republic of Croatia, the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, meaning that this is my rough estimate of about 250 million to 350 million kuna, with more than half of that amount belonging to the units of local self-government. Whether Plenkovic's government will stop favouring Deute Telecom or HT and Davor Tomaškovic's personal budget and other members of HT administration. By now, about 4 billion kunas have been charged from the Croatian Telecom. Imagine what that amount was drawn from Croatia and based on that amount, the team achieved bonuses. Without that money, the Republic of Croatia, our municipalities and cities remained, and that money ended up in the hands of Deutsche Telekom. Gentlemen, when will that be enough? I'm going to give this amendment here now, so just to get to know what it's all about, and of course I'm going to refer it to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44547	Thank you, too. You have five replicas. First Mr. Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grmoy, you've shown the whole situation very well about this law and these amendments, and I can only say that I agree with you. But you know what I'm worried about with this law? I'm concerned by Mr. Secretary of State's silence that after six replicas, no one says anything after your debate. So this is all true. I think I know it's true, but they're also aware that it's true, and they're going to push it through the wall again. You asked in the end whether Plenkovic's government would stop favoring Deutsche Telekom and Mr. Tomaskovic? He won't. It won't because this government is all the time taking advantage of large capital, suitable for banks, suitable for various bosses, etc. And we see it from week to week with every single one of their new legal proposals or any new one of their new changes. And when we think it's over, it's not over. And when an eye like this comes a benign law that only regulates some kind of behavior, then we're actually surprised at what's behind the hill. Most of this is worrying, but it is up to us opposition MPs to talk about it, to point out this and to make it clear that these changes are after strange circumstances, after the meeting of Prime Minister Plenkovic with HT President Tomaškovic, and then to accept what the ministry previously refused. So someone directly ordered you to change it now and to push it here, it is directly suitable for Mr. Tomaskovic's bonus. That should be made clear. So, the gentleman will collect a significant amount of money from Croatian citizens and towns and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the year. And I wonder how the mayors and chiefs of the HDZ in this House will vote on this bill and will they support the amendments that will come from the ranks of the opposition? So they're going to leave their money directly to some managers from Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44549	Did you ask for an answer? ... Thunder, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Thunderbolt, please. And well, Mr. Secretary of State, are you going to say that? ... They will respond to all the replicas, at the end of the debate... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] To apologize, now is the answer to the line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44550	Your Honor, Vice President. Dude, you're absolutely right. I don't think the citizens know at all what millions of bonuses are for both how much and what bonuses the members of the HT administration and Mr. Tomaskovic have, and you've noticed excellently that they buy time, so the gentlemen buy time. I don't know, did you see how upset they were as soon as we started taking this out here, they even got up, went there, colleague Boric got off the bench, there was a deal back there, which and how to answer, because they don't even know what's going on, because this is probably what they're getting through, that they don't know either, because they're probably not wondering. So it's obvious that we've been stabbed in the right thing and now there's a lot of anxiety and there's something waiting for us to find some answer to this question, because there's no answer. This is about direct bargaining, perhaps a syntagma real estate manager, not legally the happiest, but that is why I in this amendment have a solution to help our units of local self-government, our municipalities and cities, and not to go in favour of HT and the budget of Mr. Tomašković and others Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44551	Mr. Grumoja and I have to apologize to you, but in the meantime, from the proposing bench, news came that he would answer anything after all the replicas, so I'm obliged to say it, because he was directly questioned. Excuse me. Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44552	Thank you very much. Comrade Thunderbolt, everything you said, you're right. I think I'm signing it and it's well-known, and so do my HDZ colleagues, the mayors, the HDZ mayors, that it's the fact that right services, cities and municipalities are losing a lot of resources, and mostly this way, because of property legal relations. Here I am in 2012, writing to a spider web above Sinj, which cannot happen to T-Coma in Germany, because he would be responsible for this. So they put on the infrastructure city, pillars, buildings, cultural goods, even on the alkar racetrack, through centuries-old maroons, woodwoods, put on their cables, without payment, without question consent. I also don't speak with Latin pillars and base stations and the fact is that T-Com is more pronounced today than when it's privatized. Because today, apparently personal interests have prevailed, of course bonuses, in front of members of the administration, and also our Brusselsmen who want to manage the Council and to please and enlist Angela Merkel. Whether the mayors, the mayors, the doctors from those who will support this law or not will support your amendment, and they will have very base stations of certain amendments, I will say that in the debate. Because also, all the laws, regulations are being broken, and we are not the same as in Germany, so I believe that Minister Oleg Butkovic, at least what he had to do, would come here before us parliamentary representatives, answer, give answers to your enquiries and enquiries of all MPs, give solutions in the interests of the people and local self-government, because the fact and you mentioned that numerous units like my Sinj, are no longer... areas, extinct, the only thing that exploits T-Com with the help of our authorities and the minister who would have had to resign for this reason, which Minister Butkovic knew had to assume, this is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] foreign investors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44553	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoy's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44554	Comrade Bulj, I am convinced that the minister did not know at all, nor does he know what it says in this bill. It's obvious that most of our legal proposals and what we vote here to write elsewhere, to be written by certain interesting lobbys and yes. You know why the Bridge sees it as some kind of remethylation factor? So we disturb them with their circles. We disturb their circles. Those circles were established and we just showed up, and you say you won't. Then of course you're the problem, pal Bull. You're the problem. Because Tomaskovic is sweating now about what's going to happen with this. Because you've warned, and this crew is sweating here, we've seen how upset they are, how they went there to consult with Boris. They're sweating because we recognize what they're doing and they're trying to do it all the time. They need to be good for someone all the time. I thought at least a little, in opposition that it would make it easier for us when we were in the government, we had to keep warning them don't do this, it's not good for Croatia, don't do this. Well, here's what we do in the opposition. Because none of the HDZ colleagues warned about this, and there's both the mayor and the captain. And yet we are the ones who warn of such irregularities and conjecture. And I'm curious, and I've done it over and over again, what's going to happen to the optic grid? Whether Croatia will build an aggregate optical network in its possession, that gives it to all operators on equal terms, that ultimately our citizens have more favourable prices. It will show whose interests Andrej Plenkovic or, if necessary, he only works for someone's foreign interests, and we have seen how he was experienced by those he tries to court. Well, there's no one else's slap went off. So, here's Germany slapping him a few slaps. Andrej Plenkovic turned out to be a small mouse in that foreign policy, or in diplomacy, and boasts that he is a great politician, that he knows foreign policy, he has no one to slap him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44555	You have three more replicas, so you'll be able to make up for it now. Mr. Marco Squirt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44556	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Bolt, that everything you've said is true. I'm just going to add, you know, the only way local units can at least get a piece of these funds, because it's hard if we go all the way back from when there's this right behind these fees. The only way is to initiate administrative procedures to determine the level of compensation for the right path. Now, my question is, what exactly are we running administrative procedures for something that is the right of local units? I know that from a particular case since I am also the head of local self-government who has also initiated administrative proceedings on this matter. But what I would like to say is, we have debated here many times in the Croatian Parliament and agreed on how, on all sides of the political spectrum, local self-government units have small incomes. Here is also now that we have one concrete reason for all of us to make a unanimous decision, to take a small step towards decentralisation and to enable greater revenues to units of local self-government not at the expense of the state or state budget but only by raising our hands here in the Croatian Assembly for Amendment Laws which will also be proposed by the SDP club. I'll just say for the end that, unfortunately, the operator makes a variety of settlements with municipalities and cities offering far less amounts than the law should pay. So the money's already largely drained to express itself, and it's up to us to prevent it now and finally to prevent local units from getting what belongs to them under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44557	Thank you, too. The answer to Mr. Grmoy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44558	My colleague, you are directly interested in this topic and therefore you have stood up and warned of this problem and it is absolutely clear to me and it is okay for you to, as head of the unit of local self-government, to see how to make as much money as possible for your unit and ultimately for your citizens. I'm surprised why there's no reaction from the mayor and the chief of the HDZ, why aren't they responding? And here it is about their budget on money that they will be able to invest in the development of their municipalities and cities, they do not react and that is what the big problem is. And I repeat again, the legal proposals that come here in front of us are clearly written somewhere else, interesting lobbys looking for meetings, pressuring. They now have a direct link to the prime minister via Ms. Misetic and here is no problem in organising a meeting and asking that this concept be removed from the law and that we have damage to our units of local self-government. Here we are getting up against it, here we see the first amendment coming, I'm going to have to go the same one of mine that I've prepared to direct and I hope it will be accepted by the ministry. If it is not accepted, it is obvious to whom it pleases, what is done, and what is the intention. But that's not good at all. And here I call again all MPs, together we stop asking the government, give support to the prime minister, he does not have the strength, but let us support him to oppose Germany and Deutsche Telekom and to make Croatia move towards building its optical aggregate network. In that as much as I criticized him, he will have my full support because this is about national interest and this is a question not only of the same market for all, lower prices for our citizens, this is a matter of national security. Let's all support the prime minister in this, and I hope that despite these pressures, he will go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44559	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44560	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear comrade Grumoja, perhaps another dimension to add to this debate of yours, so the money as well as the streams of the river has its own flow, if it does not go to the public register then there is a great danger of going to the private crates of pigs and opening up a space for corruption. The truth is, we also talked on the Transport Committee today 31.12.2016. the Law on measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. It is Directive 2014/61 and the applicant's representative explained that this is a continuation of the implementation of this Directive in the Law on Electronic Communications where it relates to buildings. I'm not at that point we have the information you've now brought out, we've discussed it before the session itself, so this is a very serious question you're talking about 4 billion, so it's huge money. ... counterpart Djujic warned well under the cover of benign changes that such provisions would damage local self-government units are actually being introduced and I think it is inadmissible. Everything that marked the business of Croatian Telekom here in Croatia can be described, in Slavonia there is an expression like dark in the attic, nothing can be seen, you feel comfortable. So as long as property relations are unresolved as long as the situation as it is, we can say that here EL Dorado is for the collection of public money and that should be prevented. And let me just conclude, so even though I voted on the committee for this bill if these amendments don't pass, I won't vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44561	The answer to Mr. Grmoy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44562	Comrade Sagar, you are not responsible. I see fellow Boric laughing, but you are not responsible. As in the e-consultation, there was one draft law, if the ministry refused to comment on HT and HGK's e-consultation and then set us up with this bill in which it was expelled, it is not your responsibility. So we can't have the capacity to read such extensive laws, compare what happened, watch if only the ministry refused and we were hoping that there was Minister Butkovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic that they showed HT no longer like this, you won't behave like this anymore, we will allow our units of local self-government to receive funds. And then something like this happens. So I count if someone is Croatian prime minister to protect the interests of Croatian citizens, to protect the interests of our cities and municipalities. I want such a prime minister, I wish Prime Minister Plenkovic were such a prime minister. And I still want him to change that direction and be such a prime minister because he's also my prime minister and that's why I want to give him support. But I'm aware he's weak, and I'm aware that he's being pressured by some interesting lobby, and I'm aware that he doesn't have the courage to stand up to Germany and its interests. But that's why we all have to stand here with him as long as the Croatian prime minister is, he must have our support for what's a matter of national interest and he will always have my support if he goes that way. But I'll also always loudly warn about those irregularities and those conjectures I see. Of course, as Parliamentarians, we can't spot everything, but what we see is the duty of informing our colleagues here as well as the general public of what we've seen. And here I saw it, and there were other colleagues, and they brought it out here, and that's good. I hope now that those who are proposing, but also representatives, will support us in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44563	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Ivana Ninčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44564	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grmoy, you've brought out some really scary information because this turns out that we're actually instigating financial HT or, to be clear, we're allowing them not to pay billions of kuna to the harm of our cities and municipalities. However, the problem does not just stop there, this problem continues to go on and it comes all the way to our citizens, especially young and small entrepreneurs. I'm going to give you an example from your environment where a young entrepreneur is encouraged at this very time today, open his own company, get out on the market, earn his salary, not only his own salary, but also contributions to which the state budget is being filled and of which we all here have our own salary. And all he needed to carry out his activity was one meter of cable from HT's shaft to the address of his company where he carried out his activity. Of course, HT needs to provide this service and the municipality needs to give conditions to dig these meters of cable. The municipality did not agree that it is quite logical that HT does not pay the right of service to complete the municipality's infrastructure and why they would pay them something, why would they allow them to do something they haven't been paying for years. But what happens to our entrepreneurs in this situation, who's going to take care of them? Does that actually mean that when we get into a situation to choose between our little entrepreneur and HT, we're actually going to choose HT. Our mouths were full of entrepreneurship and encouraging entrepreneurs, but apparently it just stays in the campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44565	Here you go, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44566	You colleagues have set an example where the dispute between the HT and the local self-government unit and because of this dispute is suffered by young, or small entrepreneurs, because of this dispute. Exactly because HT is trying in all ways to avoid paying local self-government units. But you know what the worst part is? The worst thing is that the Croatian government, the Ministry of Transport, these people sitting here, who are very upset, I'm following them, and they're whispering all the time, they're very upset because we've discovered this problem and what they're trying to get through. And I would like them to worry more about how this young entrepreneur, how we will enable him to have all the conditions for the development of his business and how he will enable our units of local self-government, our cities and municipalities to collect from HT and not how he will allow HT to draw money from Croatia and to Tomaskovic to collect bonuses. It is the whole problem of Croatia and it is not only in this segment, it is everywhere. We have such a situation everywhere, and that is the problem, until we solve this Croatia will not go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44567	Thank you very much. The promoter asked for 5 minutes to give his opinion most likely on these replicas, interventions of various forms of intervention that were part of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44568	Thank you. The real estate manager, it was the main dispute here and the change that has taken place since the public consultation and until the Law has been referred to in the procedure. We ran additional tests and then submitted a proposal like this afterwards. After further harmonisation with the Property Act and other real rights which such concept does not know, that was one reason why it was not accepted and why it was not included. And secondly, erasing the concept is also in line with the practice of the High Administrative Court in carrying out its control over HACOM's solutions. Otherwise, this whole thing is an incentive to local self-government units, normally to enroll their ownership rights, because if property rights were entered, this dilemma wouldn't have happened. They would have the right to receive that compensation that managers should then, operators should pay. It's an incorrect statement that operators pay no one anything. On the basis of the certificate issued on the right of the HACOM route, they shall pay all owners of the property and managers of the general goods. And they will continue to pay on the basis of the provisions of this law. As regards the aggregate network, it will be built by transmitters and connections in accordance with the recent approval of the European Commission and will remain state-owned. There are more than 70m euros in grants. And in the end, this law has nothing to do with the Law of Property and other real rights. It's one thing they consume and charge and now units of local self-government. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44569	I have to write all the replicas that were and more, I apologize, because the replica has, of course. So the first replica, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44570	My colleague Mihotić, I don't know if this was written to you by the board president so he sent you an email now because you were upset, because the fact and you know it because you often come to Sinj, you know where the Alkar race is. Let's check out what's on the Maroons, the centuries-old, where they proudly come to the alka premieres, ministers, they'll see, a web of spiders without any rights, no service, don't care, do what they want, I'd personally, I'd say it and take the axe and cut it off, people's Internet will attack me, so people will attack me why there's no Internet. They do whatever they want, you let them. And now you're defending here that local self-government is charging. Let's see how much you've charged for your service rights, how many miles of what our people did, what was given in privatisation the way it was given. The HDZ government started, the SDP finished privatising T-COM, that's a fact. And we know that. But you say this way that T-COM pays local self-government, so check, please, how much he pays, and with this download... Real estate, you're just getting involved in this part that we should get rid of property-legal relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know how many unclassified roads are not listed? They'll pay for whoever paved the way for local self-government. And a similar example. Therefore, you protect local self-government, protect an individual, an entrepreneur because of a meter cable that can't open its craft. They only do what they do, draw money, and boast that in Montenegro, HT expands its activities. You know how low the number of people working in the field at T-COM is? In the area of the Cetina region, Muško krajina, a few people survived from once large numbers of people. They are interested in the extraction of money, workers are at risk, in the territory of Croatia, it is certainly not so in Germany. You are the ones who must protect, not the European officials and their likes here, but the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44571	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44572	Dearly beloved, you've been very upset here, I've been meaning to say here to add you a glass of water, I've seen that you've barely said this, well, my colleague Bulj, noticed that someone wrote this to you, and I see now that Boric has called and they've grouped... I'll fight, you answer me, you give me a line, you can answer me [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Chairman, will you remind my colleague, Boric, who is very nervous and who throws me here? [[You know, Mr. Grmoya, you know you can't talk like that, please, Mr. Grmoya, keep talking...]] Comrade Boric, you're the captain and you should be in the interest of supporting what we're looking for here, not attacking me. [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] So this is about a very simple thing. You made the truth that maybe the real estate manager, what I said in my presentation, that maybe it wasn't the happiest notion. But you, then, to those HT remarks you responded with their remark refused, and then if you have established in that analysis that this is not the happiest concept, then you should have found some other solution that will go in favor of our municipalities and cities. And not in favour of HT to just throw out that notion that might be legally problematic, so that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44573	You see, Mr. Grmoya, you have now spoken to Mr. Boric, who cannot answer you now, he will come to you later, so he will answer you, and you will not be able to answer him, and what kind of debate will it be, I beg your pardon? Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, you didn't seem very convincing to me, and I'm not going to say that you were weak and you needed a glass of water, but you didn't seem like the kind of person who was convinced of what she was saying. You said that the observation given by T-COM and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so the ministry rejected it and later included it, is the result of further analysis and consultation. I'm the only one who trusts you. This is the result of the added consultation between Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mr Tomaskovic, president of the HT administration. And then after that, we got a law that goes directly to the harm of local and regional self-government units. You said it wasn't true that T-COM wasn't paying anything. He pays, but you know what it looks like to you? I've been talking to some of the commissioners who contacted me about this. So, first they reached an agreement on 600 thousand kuna and then after the change of government in Croatia, T-COM came to them and told them 60 thousand kuna, you won't, sue me. That's what it looks like, 10 times less they're given. You say you should be encouraging units of local self-government to enroll their property. So as if they wouldn't sign it if they could've had a million problems, from DUUDI, now the Ministry of Property, the consent of the Croatian Roads, have a million problems. They don't even have the capacity for all cities and municipalities to do it. Instead of being helped by the state, you're now passing them a law that gives them money and throws them in the pocket of the T-COM chairman and says they need a boost. Bravo. Great. I don't know what you'd say to that. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44575	Thank you very much, Mr. Marco Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44576	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to replicate the part where you touched your property. The owner of the property other than ownership in land books has to consider the owner whose property is based on the law itself, let's say the units of local self-government appear as owners under several laws, most often this is the Law on Roads. In addition, the local self-government unit shall be entitled to compensation for the right of way and, as the manager of the general good when carrying out municipal activities of the general good, shall comply with the rules governing the municipal economy. We have proposed something similar in the amendment that the SDP Club has made, and I think that this would solve these legal dilemmas, and yes, I will agree with you in that part of yours that land books should be arranged, that they should be arranged by local self-government units, but just what counterpart Djujic has said, the means with which local self-government units especially in northern Croatia are insufficient. They are insufficient at all to perform those basic functions that have been given to local self-government since pre-school education, municipal infrastructure and so forth, let alone think about it. Give us some resources, co-finance at least part of it, and we'll start taking care of land books. And now if we have the right to, if we have the right to that fee, let us define by law and let us collect from the operator what is rightfully ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44577	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44578	Thank you very much, Vice President. We see that today we are under special surveillance by two colleagues from the Most. They're always estimating who's in good faith, who's bad, who's shaking, who needs water, etc. They mention people who aren't here. When these people come or when Prime Minister Plenkovic comes, when he answers the question they ask him they are offended and they leave the assembly, because of course it's not always the way they know it. Because if all knowledge were to fit in Mr. Mira Bulj and Mr. Grmoy, all services in Croatia would be useless. So in this story where he's trying to create a problem where he's gone. Unfortunately, the fact is that the spoken word cannot be stopped. And now that we've heard the applicant's explanation, there's a little retardation going on. Why? Because so far, we've had the 2012 Electronic Communications Act. Did local self-government charge for everything they could charge under that law? No, they're not. So We entered into the dispute you are talking about. And I'm in a dispute with HT and we're agreeing and we're going to try to agree on the basis of my ownership relations that rule in the area of my unsettled community, which are inherited unsettled and their thoughts that they want to pay for. And that's a fact, and it's not gonna be solved just like that in the next time. There's gonna be a new road code coming out. And now I'm asking you at MOST and SDP, your MPs voted for this bill today. Why are you inconsistencies? Why? You haven't read properly? What's the problem? The problem is, tomorrow we'll show up with HEP, with their infrastructure. Are we going to apply the same thing to their infrastructure? Shall we have the same provisions? I think that would be fair, too. And they have their own network within unclassified roads of all other roads in the area of local self-government. Will we take it as a sin, as a favor or something that contributes to the development of both the place and the people who live there? So let's be careful when we say things here, let's not make things up, not lie, but We create conspiracy theories that come as a solution based on some of the laws that you have proposed here. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Boric, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44579	Thank you very much. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull. Mr. Djujic before, then Mr. Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, deviation from normal behavior in the assembly. A colleague, Boric, has now called SDP and MOST representatives, and I see that he is nervous, and he was just before angry that he was called. I never, for example, call other representatives by name and last name, but my colleague, Boric, is very nervous. So this is all we're saying, that's the truth. And he accuses us of lying and inventing, and in fact he is clearly not telling the truth, or he is aware that he is not saying it. And he inherited problems from his predecessor and I know that he inherited it, he has to repay debts that his predecessor raised against in the community, and I know he's nervous because he's under pressure every day. Here, so please just warn him not to call us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44581	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic. You just repeated what I announced would happen when Mr. Grmoya started calling. Unfortunately, that's how it goes later. And then, of course, it causes a breach of the Rules of Procedure with complete right, as Mr. Bulj will now say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44582	Article 238, all seven items were injured solely because he said that someone was calling him. I didn't call you. Call on that representative whom you call, and he calls me unbound to lie. Nothing's easy. The fact is, I will bring you to Sinj when you come to Sinjska Alka, I invite you all, so you will see where the cables go through, whether the right of service, spiders and nets are paid around the city, public surfaces are used where the governors are known. And we said one fact and I'm telling you in my area as in mine. Here's the real estate manager deleted for what? To favor T-Coma and it was expelled after meeting with members of the Board and the prime minister. That's easy to see. It was in a public debate. I didn't see any reason why it was supposed to be thrown out on... Said it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'd just like to ask you, you've called me in this case, and you've been called by Mr. Bolt. So you're looking at him, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44583	Thank you, too. Let's continue with the replicas. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44584	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So we can agree that today we are still talking under this money law, about money to be paid to local self-government units. And now the key question is whether to amend this law, the procedure, and here we have heard that some MPs claim that so far local self-government units have been able to charge for the right of service and charge for it. Now the question is, will this bill help them to do it easier or will it help them? That's a key question, actually. We have heard here from colleagues who warn of this very seriously that this legislative proposal will actually enable them to charge those rights even harder. And that's the whole problem now. And that's just by the fact that this word "real manager" has been deleted by what we're going to see now with the proposals of these amendments coming from the opposition whether you're going to accept them to actually help local self-government units collect that money more easily. That's what the whole story is about. I agree with you, we're having a fit of madness, we have an unequal court practice. But what you've certainly said here is that some local self-government units are solving their property-legal relations, and in the field, your situation isn't so great. A lot of municipalities haven't even solved their morgues, their homes. So they don't have a reason, they don't solve it because they don't have any money. It's a cost-effective procedure. And the road, they say rivers move in space, and the road moves in space. Here are some things to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44585	Would you like to respond to the replica now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44586	All right, all I can do is answer. So this law does not enter into the right of service or the right to build. He does not enter those rights, and in no way does he derivate that right to charge for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44587	We also have the last line, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, in the late afternoon, we are discussing the item on the agenda, the amendment, the addition of the Law on Land Books. And all of you, I don't want to call anyone, who you're discussing here today, you were supposed to be heroes and welcome to discuss this subject yesterday. Because with all due respect, the colleagues and colleagues who were here. Because that's the topic that's being solved here. And then we would come to the realization that one of Croatia's biggest problems today, both at the state level and at the local level, is a lot of unlisted assets, which has been exploited, taken away, etc. Through this property, the lying municipal infrastructure and now needs to be seen, since we have a situation in Croatia how do we have, how do we solve this transitional period, use this term, but clearly define it beyond what it means? Because this is the way to argue, to say that someone is guessing, that someone wants to take something is simply set up. But I'm saying, there were supposed to be heroes yesterday. Why? Because when we discuss land books and we discuss the creation of these land books, I agree fully with Velligai, there are many units of local self-government that are unable to do so alone. But colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we had a debate on the implementation of the state budget. Then when we discuss the state budget, let's remember these heroic debates and let's say that the Justice Department needs to be given so much and so much money to get rid of land books. No, we forget to bring, so-called. bound by laws. And if in one law you use one term, then in all the laws that we make in this House, we have to use the same term. Why? Because that's the only way we create legal certainty. Because this is how we create legal uncertainty in Croatia with so many discussions. Don't you really think someone's guessing? Well, doesn't it make sense that our HRT has developed some kind of network, not that everyone has to pay Max TV as much as they pay for it because no game can be seen without that Max TV or anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44589	Thank you, Mr. Shuker, thank you. Let's move on with the clubs. Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, Club of Independent Representatives and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44590	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State Mihotić, with his associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. One came before us, by emergency procedure, so it is about amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications. And when you read a little explanation and in this explanation, it says that the aim of this law is to reduce costs and facilitate the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks, which further encourages and accelerate the objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe and so that it is possible to implement strategies for the development of wide-ranging access to the Republic of Croatia and in commercially invaluable areas of the Republic of Croatia. And when you read that, and you see that part, you say okay, here's another law that will clean it up. However, history is a teacher of life. So let's not repeat what we've done through history in Croatia. We had, somewhere in the early 1990s, the introduction of a power grid in Croatia. It was one big project where all of Croatia was doing it, and since we had unresolved property legal relations, that we didn't know how it was in land books, then there was one decision to do it relatively quickly, we did it quickly, we had project documentation, we never had the right permits to do it, and it tried to make it legalized in a few rounds and it never legalized. Then we have another project that was extremely important. The second project that was important was the moment we started to develop the GSM network, so they went first, was HT, he started setting up antennas so that we could all hear well on our phones together, so these antennas were placed on different land. That's not what the property's legal relationship was for when it was known who it was. Part of it was illegal, so another VIPNET came in, so he was setting it up, and then when TELE2 came in, then there was a problem. TELE2, he had nowhere else to go. And then what were we doing? We messed around, we messed around, we did things, and then we said by law, that on one pillar, GSM networks must come all the operators that you did for the simple reason that we had to regulate it. In doing so, parallel to that, concerning certain municipalities and cities, municipalities and cities worked their DTK network. And just like a network of water lines or any other infrastructure and then there was a war. There was a war when the introduction of these existing, therefore, DTK network is your concrete chess that is going and that is where the war is headed. At night he set one up, the other one didn't set up. And what's the result? Nobody paid anybody anything and let's move on, my people. So, let's see, there's no one in this assembly, and I like to do it every time and about things that we can agree on. Are we all advocating decentralisation? We're pawning. What does decentralisation mean? decentralisation means, not only decentralisation of business, but decentralisation, i.e. to enable funds. The municipalities and cities are as powerful and can work as much as they have their resources in the budget, without it there is no decentralisation. I always like to say one example, an example, when we were doing a project, that is, a topic of legalization that has nothing to do with this, but it always has to do with, then part of the funds went to work at the office and it's decentralisation, you gave up work and you gave money to work with. When it comes to this, then, it is no accident that we are all discussing this whole morning since we started this provision in Article 28. The municipalities and cities have the possibility of getting part of the funds and not just part of it, but serious funds. We don't let them do that. My people, the role of all of our parliamentary deputies, is the role when we get the law, which gives us the opportunity to have our municipalities and cities, because that's where it happens, that's where it's built, that's where you're talking about the network, to ensure that they get adequate resources. It's very indicative, I'm not going to get into what my colleagues said everyone had a different rhetoric and I don't really want to get into who the prime minister met or didn't. I think the prime minister should meet with at least ten different people a day, which is the importance of the prime minister who manages the country, and what anyone has said to anyone at that meeting is indicative that the meeting has gained considerable importance in the media, but also about the media should be cautious. However, what the reply was not given by the State Secretary, and it would be good to respond to a direct comment in the public debate on HT which came to the ministry refused. So in the explanation, it refused, and then came the second provision of the law, so that the provision of the law should be defined and it should be said. I just think that I usually stand for the option, I don't think there's a magic wand, I don't think there's an ideal solution, no matter what improvement the praise is worth, and that improvement needs to be taken into account. So this, too, when you got this argument and the consequences of the law, we're declaringly in agreement. But what needs to be done is to make sure that the mistakes we made don't happen again. And the mistakes when it's even from light lines to today we've made a lot of them. We still don't have it regulated, and that's another problem... for an existing network when someone enters an existing network of obligations that need to be given to local self-government units. I have to admit that one day I'm wondering maybe we'll have a water theme that we'll have different water distributors, what are we going to do with the water net? We paid for the water network all through the budget of local self-government units, all of us. What are we going to do one day, the one who's going to have a plumbing is a bit of an awkward example, but it's possible, what are we going to do? So what's our job, let's protect our units of local self-government, let's go through laws that come in and bring in a way that allows them to fill their budgets. The worst option is that when they depend on state budgets from the state budget as much as they will have or not, a much better option when they can do it themselves. This law also has a series of things that are defined by several residential buildings, they are more technical. So that part that's technical may be a little bit better or a little bit worse but it's correct. But what you need to know, and that's where I think my colleague was talking about a young entrepreneur, and the provisions when it comes to building a basic network are subject to the Construction Act, and what happens to your cadastrian particle, according to the cadastrian congratulation, is based on the Law on simple works. The same way we have really long had these provisions that talk about multiple residential buildings, which is, but at this point, who are technical things and we will technically solve it. Let's see and talk about the essence. Let's not repeat the mistakes these countries have already made. To end, I really have to take this opportunity, we went into major legalization related to the building, what we certainly need is legalization related to the infrastructure. And I don't think it's supposed to be some kind of financial income, but it would be much better to film, legalize. But what is important is that it is important to know who manages this infrastructure and it is important that those who use it for the whole time from the state budget, local budgets invested in it to receive adequate compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44591	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, you have five, six replicas. First Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44592	Here, colleague, clearly it's an interest to solve the problem that wasn't as it happened throughout the history of telecommunications. All governments participated, one started and I said HDZ, the SDP ended that privatisation unfortunate which was to the detriment of the Croatian man... man invested in a complete telecommunications network. The fact that you said it was good for the prime minister to meet with everyone, yes, but the fact that it was written in a public debate in this proposal to amend the law for the fourth time, which is the fact that often changes the law, the real estate manager has the right to service and manager. But after that, for no reason whatsoever, without explanation, it was erased, but it was a huge part. You know, you were a minister where no property relations were solved, but a large area of management of these examples of unclassified roads that cities and municipalities paved, arranged and, of course, they should pay for it. That's the first one. Second, we have an article 30 on the installation of antenna pillars where all teleoperators have set them wherever they want, not an antenna pillar, so everyone uses it in accordance with regulations like in other countries. However, they did not even change it now so that we could not influence the amendments. I will certainly give the amendment that I can explain, regardless of what has been targeted, that this law has not gone into detail to change itself to suit exclusively the teleopers in this case because Article 30 has remained completely unchanged, and we do not have the right to give amendments. It means that teleoperators are being protected, that after talking to the Prime Minister of Management, this property manager is being wiped out as if he wasn't paying the right to serve. So it is indicative that this time it does not protect Croatian space...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44593	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44594	Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, as you've had the chance to hear in my debate, I really don't think everything's moving with us. It started a lot before, and we have a series of things that we've had a lot before, and I can only use this moment to repeat what I said before, and that's when it comes to setting up antenna pillars is about being independent, they have to be planned in spatial order documents. Equally so yesterday we had this interesting debate on land books and the fact is 6% of Croatia is arranged catastrianly and in land books and that is the fact and we have to take care of it. However, if we were to wait for all this to be settled and settled, there is not a single investment. And I understand that investments are going and that we have to answer and take care of the facts that they are, but that's why this debate of mine has been focused on something that we have to take care of. It is our duty to take care of our units of local self-government. And when we get a chance for them to get something into their budget, we can't miss that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44595	Thank you, too. Second replica, Mr. Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44596	Dear MPs, you mentioned in your debate Article 14 or Article 28 of the existing law. And I'm actually asking if you don't think it's wrong at all that we're having a discussion about two words about this law because that way we've actually rerouted the whole attention and intensity of the law, the adoption of this law which is which is to speed up the construction of infrastructure in areas where it doesn't really go as fast as possible. So when we look at these articles of the law, so it arises, two words about the manager of the general goods or the owner of the property, and in the existing law that we are now changing is also the manager of the general goods or the owner of the property, so by the basis of the existing law we have examples of where certain municipalities and cities have managed to charge from the fee operator. Of course, the fee is easier to charge in areas where the operator has a greater interest in building networks. There, in those municipalities where there isn't, he sees all the problems he has in building a network before he gives up building a network rather than going to solve these problems. Working in HEP I had one example where you want to set a pillar and when you want to come up with a local and construction permit to build that network then you get into a situation where Croatian roads say it is our belt and you need to regulate it with them and then you go to the grantovnica and you see that some grandmother or her successor is listed there, and in order to solve the problem at all and build that column then you have to solve it with both of them. Perhaps one word and especially when I see this amendment now that the SDP has given, I do not see that it will solve the problem we are discussing all the time today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44597	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44598	Thank you very much. A colleague of Totgergeli's every word is important. It's as important as the introduction and I said that you don't see just that part, absolutely one law where we take care of both acceleration and electronics, so all that matters to us. However, every word is important and we are in a situation that units of local self - government that are richer have the opportunity to continue to be like that and those that are poorer to be even poorer. We don't have to do that, we don't have to do that. So what is the mission of the country and the task of all of us is that no matter where we live, all our citizens get the same, at least roughly the same conditions. And this is one of the projects that we're talking about. So what's interesting, interesting is that we didn't get an answer from the secretary of state, which is what happened in the public debate when that remark was rejected and we got a bill that didn't have it. What's that reason? And of course we would never have made these highways if we had gone to solve property legal relations, so we had special laws and we need to be aware of that and we need to make it clear that for some things you need to have a special law that you have to solve. But yesterday, when there was a debate on this law on land books, there was a small shift made and everyone we discussed we discussed in a way that we could solve. But when we have a chance to do something, we drop that opportunity and drop that opportunity with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44599	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Ivica Micic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44600	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Taritash, I have listened to your statements and I can fully agree with what you have said. We had light grids... Networks, VIPs, Tele 2 virtually all without permission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was clear to all of us that after the war we wanted everyone to have some modern phones, modern networks to join us all, everyone heard everything and finally we saw that we did something, that of all the things that happened, the most important thing was that we got closer to Europe, modernised our networks, as much as we did about it. However, it is not a question of who manages these networks, the question is how much is Croatia benefiting from these networks and the Croatian people. And I believe there is, very, very much. The other day we passed a concession law, so we asked why we did it. You mentioned the highways well. How soon would we get to Split or Ploč or Vinkovci if we hadn't taken the credits and made the highways? And I as a businessman am fully aware that we ourselves cannot solve all problems in the state without concessions. God forbid we can, we have a thousand islands, make a thousand hotels on each island, hire 100 workers and 100,000 jobs where there are 500,000 jobs missing in this Croatian country where we Croats can't finance it if we don't bring real concessionaries, here today some billionaire wants to invest billions of dollars in Croatia. We must use this time of tourism and set up thousands of hotels on the Adriatic to be the first destination in Europe. If we don't use it at this time, I'm afraid in 10 years we're not the first to have someone else to use it. Therefore, the concessions are not all evil, it has good, but certainly for the interest of the Croats it should take good care of... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44601	Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44602	Thank you very much. I will leave my colleague Misic from the end of your replica, although it is not a theme, 1000 hotels on the Adriatic, if we had 1,000 hotels on the Adriatic, the Adriatic would no longer be what it should be. So, sustainable development, even development means keeping an eye on how much space it suffers from destroying the basic values of our Adriatic, which are natural beauty. But that's not the point. I do, and I agree with you in part, what was worth in '94, '95, then '98. Even in 2000 when we really had to reach some conditions at all for the country, these are conditions and security, not only the benefit of our citizens, should not be valid today. Today we are in 2017, with no one here contesting construction, so no one even contests the fact that the conditions for building high-speed electronic communications and related infrastructure are prescribed, says "public funds according to state aid rules." And nobody's got anything on it, the only thing is when it's done and used, when someone's using that unit of local self-government they need, and it needs to go into their budget. That's what we're discussing right now. So if this wasn't a topic, we wouldn't even be discussing it and probably every club would be a few sentences and declarative. This is an opportunity when we really have the opportunity to budget units of local self-government rather than the state from its state budget, and this is a big difference between, say, HEP and HT. HEP is a state firm, he pays his profits in the state budget, that is, this is a private firm that will use its profits on our behalf individually, and our role is to keep what it earns in Croatia as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44603	Thank you. Mr. Marco Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44604	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad to see you, colleague Mrak-Taritash, that in your presentation, you've put an emphasis on a decentralisation that we all agree on. And now that we have a situation to actually show on one particular proposal, that doesn't come up. Look, the Secretary of State mentioned these judgments to the High Court. You don't have any convictions that the real estate manager doesn't have the right to compensation for the right way. And we're actually going to prove the administrative disputes that all the local units have started already and are in the process. And I'll also agree with you that HT is a private company, she bought our property, property that our citizens built through former state-owned companies, so from CTU, then after that to HPT. and there is a big difference with HEP which is still state-owned and I hope that the GEP infrastructure will remain state-owned because if it will ever be private then the HEP infrastructure should also pay those amounts for the right path. I think HT is very charging through citizens' accounts its investment in infrastructure, which unfortunately is not too big. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44605	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44606	Thank you very much. You have also cited some topics and some differences through this replica. So, when it comes to HEP, I would always argue that what happens to the distribution network of HEP does not go into privatisation, but that it is not the subject of privatisation but that it remains the property of the state but it will be what it will be. We now have another example here, the example is very clear. And if there was that provision of the law that was in the public debate, we certainly wouldn't have this many replicas to each other and we wouldn't have talked to each other. I really appreciate what happened here, but also, we already know that it's going to cause certain administrative disputes that we're pushing local self-government units into, so let's not force them into a job that we already know and things that they're going to do, so let's just get a little voice of common sense and find some kind of solution that will be acceptable for the right. This law, unlike some other laws, goes according to an emergency procedure. Otherwise, I also commended yesterday, and I said that we're coming across a series of laws in two readings, otherwise I think it's good to have two readings, to be an exceptional emergency procedure, therefore, this is just an improvement of the law and possible amendments. We've already got one, three, four amendments on the table. The experience we have so far, the government will refuse the amendments. Our request is, let's think about these amendments, maybe these amendments are still better and let's see that there is a situation in which the amendments of the opposition are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44607	Thank you. The last replica of Mr. Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the Secretary of State and Associates. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you have said exactly what we all agree with and absolutely all of us want our local administration to collect everything that can be charged to withdraw funds and strengthen local budgets. And you set a good example. We're here to discuss the manager now, we will, we won't, you made a good proposal, why don't we legalize that DTK infrastructure? As we have legalized illegal objects, let's say the Law on the legalization of complete infrastructure. You also mentioned a water condition. Well, you know half of them don't know where the water pipes go. Maybe some old worker who worked there, so he took it, so he keeps it because it's a good license for him while he's working to have a privilege at work, and it's similar with both telecommunications and this DTK infrastructure. How many cities does he even know where this infrastructure is going? A very small number, but they know from the operator, of course. But let's do that legalization, and then we won't discuss whether it's a state road, a local road or a well, if it's someone's private, we can't legalize it, but it can be charged. But the other problem is when we legalize it all and when we give the operator, we try to charge from it, who will ultimately pay it, that increased price? They'll pay the citizens again. It's a danger. So, we can fight the operator here, let them pay it, let the great funds be paid to the local administration, but then eventually they will pay the citizens, and it is also a danger to think about because they will certainly not charge for their damage, not at their own expense those funds that they must pay to units of local self-government from their own resources and from this bonus that the predecessors spoke of but certainly on the burden of our citizens. And that's where we need to see what the interest is and whose interest is ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44609	Thank you very much for your answer. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44610	Thank you very much, fellow Sanader, for opening up what I said very gently in the debate but which is a big problem. The big problem is that our infrastructure, whether it's a state or not, the local self-government unit is really illegal. When I started working there, or something like a young engineer's obligation was to go for a useful permit to record a complete infrastructure, to turn it into a cadastre and run a water cadastre. But on the way, it's a little bit forgotten and we don't have it. We have one three, four municipalities, cities in Croatia that have it right, but these others don't. In 2015, however, since the elections were the subject of the Law on Legalisation and Infrastructure, this law on the legalisation of infrastructure did not apply only to, therefore, the surface but underground. It was also about one thing that was, but it was about concessions actually and the legalization of what was done on the seabed was that a terrible lot was done here, and I was the one who taught the ministry and handed it over to the minister. And as I was very correct, and then I said I would very much like you to make the law on these issues, you will get support because that law is necessary. I hope it works with that law, too, because it's one of the solutions. So the solution is that we have legal infrastructure, it will make life easier for everyone. It will make life easier for the state, make life easier for municipalities and cities and municipal enterprises owned by municipalities and cities as well as for the state. However, the topic remains, the team needs to manage safe units of local self-government, and those who use should pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44611	Thank you, too. And at the end of the last line, Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44612	Thank you very much. Comrade Tarritash, you have with your argument to put the ball on the ground in a sports dictionary. You debated a few days ago and when we discussed spatial planning and land books, and today we discussed this point. So, all this debate is the result of a terrible mess. And how can we talk about the rational, economic management of state property and property of local self-government units if it is not registered anywhere, if a bunch of infrastructures are nowhere to be seduced. Well, it doesn't once happen when someone goes to dig something to rip this water or that water. And we here today act as if everything is clear and clear and in this perfect picture someone wants to be a servant to someone and allow someone to earn money. Is one nomotechnical change and a desire to use the same expression in all our acts, a desire to help someone and make order? That's the basic question. Because how many roads do you have where the 50's and 60's are taken away from people's lands, made roads. Well, some kind of infrastructure was pulled down that road. However, all these ficleks that have been torn off from one of his fields have never been translated into the property of the municipalities of the then state. Also, this infrastructure that was once built when it was not required to seek the right of service was set up, and it was not recorded either. And around this infrastructure that we're talking about, so simply this infrastructure has never been mentioned in the privatisation processes, nothing. Part of that infrastructure was run by local self-government units. You have three holes somewhere, six blocks of concrete through which that network is going. So we have one completely unsolved situation. And so neurotic to discuss such an unresolved situation as if it were all pure simply leading us somewhere that anyone who wants to invest in Croatia will ask themselves a question and where I come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44613	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. Thank you, Mr. Tarritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44614	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker and I know very well that it's not just nomotechnics, because in order to be a nomotechnic, we wouldn't be discussing it so much. But you have an option to have what you have. And now we could say that my people are 250 years old and there's nothing in Croatia until we figure it out. So when after 250 because I calculated about that much yesterday, after 250 years, we'll take care of it. And that's why there are laws like this, and that's why there are essential laws that allow someone to build and do something. That's why I deliberately mentioned highways, because if we'd waited for it all together and we'd have gone into the process of it, it wouldn't have happened. You know what we last did, and we forgot that? A project of gasification of Croatia. When Croatia's gasification project went, then we agreed to do so, and then we thought about something else that we didn't think about today, which was gas power plants that were supposed to be connected to the sea and everything together. And that's when we did the same thing. There was a big project, the project was conducted by PLINACRO. They were in charge, so people who deal with property-law issues. There was also a law that said how to regulate it and we regulated it. We here only point to one fact where we pray for understanding or we have a different way of communicating. I'm kind of really appealing and please, my people, come on, think about it. This is something that can help our municipalities and cities, let's help them, let's help them. Our job is to help our citizens, our municipalities and our cities. It's not our job until the end to help private investment. I am aware that without private investment there is no development. But let's do it in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44615	Thank you very much. Now we're going to continue the club debate. Mr. Marko Vesligaj, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44616	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the Law on electronic communications that regulates the use of electronic communications networks and the provision of electronic communications services, the provision of universal services as well as the protection of the rights of users of services, construction, installation, maintenance and use of electronic communication infrastructure. I can say that the law, of course, is correct in most parts, because it goes in the direction of removing obstacles to the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and achieving a digital agenda for Europe and opening up opportunities for large investments in a broadly clarified infrastructure in areas where there is not enough commercial interest where these investments are secured and funds from ESI funds under the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion, and this is not only for the aggregate network but also for the access network, where I hope that these funds from ESI funds will also be included, and that the state will give us some state incentives, that this access network, where the city's interests will be, say local units, local self-government, not operators. But in one small part, which is here, which we've been discussing all day, the law is not good. We can all correct it because it is extremely harmful, primarily for local self-government units, but also for regional self-government and the Republic of Croatia. It is so mentioned in Article 28(6) of this Act, which states that only the manager of the general goods or the owner of the real estate can initiate before the Agency the procedure for the establishment of an infrastructure operator for electronic communications infrastructure built on the general good or on the real estate referred to in Article 27(1) of this Act. These determinations of the quantity and type of such infrastructure as well as the amount of compensation for the right pathway. Which is why I think that article is incomplete and is suitable for operators who are obliged to pay compensation for the right path, let's say local units. Even if they are not registered as property owners in land books, because the owner of the property, except the owner of land books, has to be considered the owner, whose property comes from the law itself. Therefore, units of local self-government appear as property owners based on multiple laws, and most often based on the Law on Roads. The unit of local self-government shall be entitled to the compensation for the right path and as the manager of the general good when it manages the general good under the rules governing the communal economy or the general good shall take care of the protection and maintain it on the basis of regulations governing the maritime well-being and seaport. However, the proposed law, for quite unknown reasons, did not take these arguments into account, and rather than, as proposed in the draft proposal for this same law in February 2017, amending the basic provision of the right path, which would allow the authorities, the compensation for the right path, as provided for in Article 27(1) of the Local Self-Government Unit, but also the Republic of Croatia, with fewer difficulties and faster to achieve this compensation to which they have the undisputed right and in fact the authorisation to claim compensation for the right path to be extended and more clearly defined. So that, apart from the persons who are now in charge of compensation, such as the manager of the general goods and the owner of the property, it is the property manager, i.e. the public area manager. I'm afraid that's not done. So, the changes were made for no reason, or here, and the question has been raised here for whatever reason, I would not have entered these speculations, but they are directly damaged by both the Republic of Croatia and the local self-government units because the legislator is actually still leaving court practice, which is otherwise very unequal, to interpret or to interpret who is the authority of the real road compensation for public areas located in the area of units of local self-government. So, in this way, the absence, the proposed changes, without reason, we can actually say that it suits the operator himself, for the reason that local units, it will only achieve their right somewhere in the future and that will probably come to an outdated, part of the intention they have the right to. So, Croatia's telecom is already at the expense of the state and local self-government units, although it uses their real estate to provide electronic communications services, does not pay that compensation for the right path in the amounts prescribed and determined. And because of this incomplete legal arrangement, or all the real estate he's using. Whoever put together the amendments and the amendments to the regulations, I don't know, we've heard some explanations from the secretary of state, they weren't very convincing, but we can actually suspect that there is a private interest in the damage of general or public interest. But we have here as parliamentary representatives, that these doubts about interpretation, the basic provisions of the right path, are removed. In such a way that the provision relating to amendments to the law means Article 14 that, through that article, an amendment to Article 28 is made to the general public, which is the manager of public areas, which is managed in accordance with the rules of the municipal economy, as well as the manager of maritime goods, and the owner of the property, which is the owner of public goods in general and public goods in public use, may, before the Agency, initiate a procedure for the establishment of an infrastructure operator for electronic communications infrastructure, which is built on the general good or on the property referred to in Article 27(1) of this Act, and determine the quantity and type of such infrastructure and the amount of compensation for the right way. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP has sent an amendment in this form, in order to charge the compensation which operators are obliged to pay and the revenue is the state, county, local budget, city, municipal, therefore, to be charged in due time, without any doubt and the possibility of avoiding or postponing by the operator itself. The above amendments would be a legal solution, and would remove the doubts raised in practice about the interpretation of the disputed provision, but would also be denied the private interest of harming the public. Here I will appeal for the end, to all of you fellow parliamentary representatives and MPs, primarily the mayors and mayors of all options we have often discussed and agreed on many things concerning local self-government here in the Croatian Parliament regardless of political colors. Of course, the most about local self-government having too little resources compared to everything in its jurisdiction but also with the expectations that people have of us as mayor and mayor. I therefore invite you all to support this amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications and to allow, firstly, local units to come closer to what they have under the law, and that is the annual fee for the right to pay HT to local units, which unfortunately does not work or pay much less than it should. Instead, we know these money goes to dividends, goes to profit, goes abroad. Let's not let that happen, let's not let that money be used more wisely and rationally in the construction of kindergartens, the construction of municipal infrastructure, more money for students, students and all that is needed in our local environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44617	Thank you, too. You have five replicas. The first is Mr. Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44618	Comrade Vesligaj, you have now read the amendment of the SDP Club and, after the wording of the Governor of General Good under that amendment, should be deleted or then listed again by the manager and the owner. Now, based on that example I've already cited to my colleague Mrak-Taritash, does that mean that then any operator we're talking about telecoms, we can bring it down to other operators, when it goes to build something, should pay both the owner and whoever manages that good. And I gave that example of the Croatian roads where the Belt of the Croatian Roads and the Croatian Roads won't allow you to put the pillar in their belt until you regulate it with them. And that arrangement with them also means paying some compensation. On the other hand, the particle is grantically owned by a private or legal person, however, and this private or legal person is, on the basis of the fact that he is a grant owner of that particle, also seeking compensation. So it turns out you have to pay twice the fee and to settle it, you can't even solve it until you make deals with all of them, and then you're just going to get local and construction permits and stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44619	The answer to the line, Mr. Vezligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44620	Thank you. Ha, I have already mentioned in several of my replicas that we must distinguish a private investor or a private company and a public one, which is predominantly state-owned, of course, not subject to it. And what I'm going to say about the amendment is that it's in accordance with the Law on Property and the Law on Land Books, so this remark of yours doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44621	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vesligaj, you've explained this well and you said that in essence this law is not bad and it's not bad, this law is mostly good for its part except for this Article 28 paragraph 6 and it's one coward's egg that we've got here, and for the reason that T-com would not pay cities and municipalities what it has to pay and it's not double payment. They don't pay what they have to, let alone pay for something double. I'm not afraid for them at all, they have strong legal services, and apparently they have co-workers in the government. But what I'm interested in is exactly what you said, so the Secretary of State told us that after further analysis and consultation there was a change in this. Now, I'd like to hear from the secretary of state after the conclusion of these replicas and tell us exactly what are the analyses, what consultations, who and why, to give us a clear answer. So now we've been talking for an hour now that you haven't given us a clear answer, and you haven't, and I'd like to finally hear it, so maybe you can convince us it's okay. But once again, my colleague, Boric, I think, once again, yes, but that's not true, I'm interested now in how you're going to vote on this because this goes directly to the harm of local self-government units. I can understand that you've only been here for a month, so maybe you haven't met what a shame it is for you in your community, but don't beat your head against the wall later, I'm opening your eyes to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44623	Mr. Djujic, he can't answer you now, so don't speak to the representative now when he can't answer you. Then he'll look for a replica he's already asked for, and then he'll tell you, but you won't be able to answer. It will be a conversation between the deaf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44624	Mr. President, give me a break. It's been 10 seconds, Vice President. I wouldn't tell my colleagues anything if he kept talking to me at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44625	Do not contact an individual representative because it causes a series later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44626	What do you mean, there's 50 of us here in this hall I haven't spoken to anyone but him, because we keep being gestured... /Speakers speak at the same time./... Well, I haven't spoken to a colleague of the House. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44627	Let me tell you something, one little straight off this table I have something to tell you. You used to protest exactly that, that's why you protested before it actually caused problems. I'm not telling you anything but I return what you said, and we agree on it, and we try not to provoke it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44628	Just don't make me cry, here's all right. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you very much. Now, here's what you vice presidents have kicked me out of touch, and now I don't know what I was going to say anymore. My colleague, Boric, is trying to kick me out of the game by sneezing all the time and it's not working, and then you who am a calm man basically with everything you've said exactly what you're kicking her out of the game, here I am now not going to talk anymore. Thank you very much. Here's the thing I'm asking you to do is warn some colleagues not to make fun of us. That's what we won't mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44629	Thank you very much. I would pray now that we stop because when you take the word here now I am talking to you, Mr. Boric, don't take the opportunity to answer because it will cause a series of such, there's no reason. We're talking about things we don't talk about people. I'm sorry, I'm lost now. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44630	Thank you, Vice President. Here, fellow Djujic, what you said today, we've been going through this one thing all morning, one item, one article that's controversial. I know that now, on the other hand, there will be a lot of legal interpretations, they must have consulted their legal experts on the party, and they will try to challenge it in every way possible. But the essence remains exactly the same. The point is, I'm going to repeat once again that we're making it difficult for local units to do something that they're entitled to. And that's where the whole story stops. We can throw ourselves now, use some legal amounts that would be, some legal amounts that would be like this, if it weren't, but we can do something for local units today, we can do something for local self-government and we can take a little step towards decentralisation. We have that power in our hands, it's up to us if we use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44631	Thank you, too. Mrs. Branko Marinchev-Juritchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44632	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would once again like to underline this sentence, which is obviously controversial. The operator of the general goods or the owner of the real estate may, before the Agency, initiate the procedure of establishment, etc. Do you know that on your land, I can launch a process of obtaining a local permit for a family home? I can, but I can't get a building permit. So this article does not exclude another article in the Roads Act, which clearly states, since 2011. “Unclassified road is a public good in general use owned by a unit of local self-government in which it is located.” And an unclassified road, further, cannot be alienated from the ownership of a unit of local self-government, nor can real rights be acquired on it other than the right of service, the right to build and thus, with the consent of the municipality or the city. You say that all the time that some don't pay or pay less. Well, that's the head of the local self-government unit. When anyone comes with a request from the city or the municipality that they need a dig and an unclassified road, you won't give him consent if it's due and it's over. And it's settled. It seems to me that this is very manipulative with our citizens and with the public that the Law on Roads is completely excluded and something which obliges us as leaders to both own and whatever it tells us to make our assets available to the citizens in the best way and in this case to the operators and to charge for it. When talking about the amounts to be paid into the budget of the local self-government unit, some will say not all are financially capable. But I suppose it's wise of the leaders to invest in the design of the elaborate and to book that road code so that she can charge the fees from the operator. It's certainly better invested money than spend it on something else where you can't get Kuna back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44633	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Squishy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44634	Well from what you're saying, I would now even realize that you've partly challenged the Law of the Roads but well, it's not that important right now. I understand, you come from one another climate, you have high incomes, and I believe you've done it with yourself in the city. And here I take off my hat, good for you. If I had such incomes, the original incomes per capita, and I, say, am in town with 1800 kunas, your amounts must be close to 10 thousand kunas, I probably didn't miss much, then I'd also decide on something like that, to sort something out. Because we'll all agree, land books are messy, we've got this big problem with it. And of course it would be much simpler if we had those land books arranged, if we had those land books written, if we were listed as cities and municipalities as owners, then we wouldn't be discussing it at all, but unfortunately we don't. Many parts of Croatia do not have it because the procedure could not be done because they can barely fulfil the basic functions they must. We have parents paying 800 kuna children's kindergarten, somewhere they don't pay anything to parents for kindergartens, so for their children, look. And now we're offered through the law a possibility. There was a bill of law, so there was this provision inside, and obviously there's a possibility that local individuals can get to the funds that belong to them faster. And somebody's gonna say, well, give it to me, we're gonna go take care of it now, so we're gonna do it over the years, okay? But look the local unit must live, it must live from today until tomorrow. I also welcomed tax reform, and I welcome this tax reform that will open up more revenues to local units and bring about these unifications. But I didn't say hello at the end of 2016 because we now froze in 2016 in 2017, and we had to survive in 2017 as well. We also had to finance preschool education, road maintenance, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44635	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Boric is replicating Mr. Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44636	Thank you very much. I will vote for this law just as the SDP and its leaders then voted in the Assembly for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act when two billion kunas of local self-government were taken by the feather move, they didn't even blink at the time. So don't worry. Why do I say that? Because you and I know that when we get into a dispute with HT or for the right of service that's more expensive or for the right path that's cheaper, then we have to deal with them, right? Because without a deal, the houses can't be built, so the deal can't be built, and the fact is that I have problems with that operator too, and I'm trying to get it out my own way. First, there was a ban on access to infrastructure in the area of my municipality for whatever it was they needed. So if they want to dig up 10 meters of local roads, they won't do it. I won't let them because they know they have a certain debt to that municipality. And they didn't do it and they won't do it until they solve the situation we only got in 2012 with the law that proposed then by the SDP and which for the first time introduced those rights that we can achieve. And then the stories started, that's one right that the leaders found out only later. So they didn't all know what was going on but they found out afterwards and then we caught her who knows what and can because they themselves were aware that they didn't have arranged property-legal relations. And that story begins, the one who doesn't want to pay is being hunted by unregulated property-legal relations. The ones I want to charge, we hunt down the article of the law, and we're spinning back into the system of agreements. All of what's been told here today has been a function of creating a little platform where someone needs to be accused of something because somebody else was in a meeting somewhere. And we have this story that we have. I personally believe that this law does not lose the rights of local self-government, how we will achieve them, and so far we have had problems. I think that through the amendments to the Law on Roads, through these changes on ownership-legal relations, through the recently amended Law on Cataster and Infrastructure, which has become mandatory for all, you will realize that we are a bit of a system in which local self-government will get what it is but according to the law as it should be, without much agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44637	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Welligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44638	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Boric, I didn't expect you to support this law, I knew you'd get some SDP law out of it, so you'd be doing a comparative. I could also go away now in 2007 when you also passed a bill that was completely taxed on profits by a local self-government unit, but I don't think that's at all important right now that we're here to discuss it, we're now on this Law of Electronic Communications. But that's where you entered into such a small contradiction, you first mentioned that we had to negotiate, so we have to deal with the operator for something we have the right, and on the other hand, you said you needed to build a little bit of a system, which I agree with you on. Of course we need to build a system, but then let's not build it through some kind of arrangement and small concessions that HT is doing now on the ground and with a number of local units sign various agreements, so let's at least establish an annual fee in some kind of real amount, and then something else goes back in 2, 3 years, so we made a deal. So who's lost, who's lost? They've lost their citizens. And they offered much less amounts, I know a specific example of a local unit where HT offered an amount that was 10 times smaller than the amount that was received after the administrative dispute was launched. So, based on this, the real estate manager just, so you don't have any convictions, I repeat again, to the High Court of Management that will tell you that we don't have the right to compensation as property managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44639	And at the end of the last line, Mr. Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44640	My dear colleague, here are my colleagues from HDZ who are trying to minimize all of this here that has been said, no one here wants to talk about any motives, any meetings, we just presented the fact that it's obvious that after that meeting there has been a change in the position of the ministry. It was HT's observation and the HGK's remark on this concept of real estate manager, the ministry rejected the statement, so that such a legal proposal would come to us, in which we have no idea. The SDP Club has given its amendment, you've given some kind of a solution, I've also sent the amendment, we'll have to think about which of these proposals, or the amendment goes more in favour of local self-government units if this formulation and solution is better, I'll gladly support it, and give up this amendment. I went in the direction that if the owner of the property on which the right road exists does not know that the fee referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is paid to the local self-government unit in which the property is located, and if the property is located in the area of two or more units of local self-government, it shall be paid to the local self-government unit in which the majority of the property is located. I don't know if this is a better way or if it's better what you suggested, of course, I'm not a lawyer, but we definitely can't agree with our HDZ colleagues that the municipalities need to prove it, but we need to find that formula that will go more in favor of local self-government units to make that fee easier. And it was also the proposaler's task, but they just threw out this notion and did not offer any solution that would make it easier for local self-government units to collect what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44641	Thank you. Mr. Vesligai, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44642	Thank you, Vice President. Well, on this point, I think we can agree that we need to see, we'll all agree that laws are only one means, and I guess the goal is to ensure that this right of compensation for the use of the right path and the service is realized, in fact, by local units. Everything is said, in fact, we are all parliamentary representatives on the move to accept these amendments and I repeat again, making it easier for local self-government units to achieve this year on what they have a complete right. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44643	Thank you very much. We're continuing with representatives' clubs, Mr. Mira Totgergeli in front of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44644	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, distinguished parliamentary deputies and MPs. So, before you there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, which was actually from 2008 which has experienced 4 amendments so far, and was the last one since June 2014. In December 2016 we discussed and adopted the Law on measures to reduce the cost of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks and then we spoke about the state of use of broadband internet and the possibility of using high-speed internet access in the area of the Republic of Croatia. According to HACOM data for September 2015, only 52.9% of households in the Republic of Croatia used access rates greater than 2 megabits per second using less than one and a half percent of households at 30 megabits per second and more. According to the European Commission's relevant indicators in December 2014, the Republic of Croatia is at the start of EU Member States in the availability of networks that allow access speeds of more than 30 megabits per second and that availability was 47.5% and that is exclusively in urban areas. During the same period, availability in EU Member States was on average 68%. Therefore, most of the networks of higher speeds in urban areas are represented in the Republic of Croatia, while in rural areas there is only 10% availability, which is a major disproportionate between urban and rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. That is how it is seen from the data of HACOM from December 2015 where the number of broadband connections is viewed by county, of course the largest in the city of Zagreb is 248422 and the smallest in Ličko-Senj County 9509, while the total is in the Republic of Croatia 986215 connections. If we look at it according to the density of the connections, which is then comparable to each other Zagreb is of course still in first place with 31.45% and the last is Virovitsk-Podravska County with 13.79% while the average in Croatia is 23.02%. Therefore, Directive 2014/61/EU aims to facilitate and encourage the introduction of high-speed electronic communications networks that allow the provision of broadband internet services at a rate of at least 30 megabits per second and to reduce the costs of setting them up. The most important issues arising from the transposition of the provisions of the Directive, which are regulated by the law mentioned in December 2016, are the introduction of an obligation to give access to the physical infrastructure of network operators to set up high-speed electronic communications networks, and the introduction of the availability and transparency of basic data on existing physical infrastructure for public communications network operators through a single information point, the establishment of coordination of construction works, the introduction of a co-ordination obligation for construction works fully or partially funded by public means, the introduction of mandatory transparency of data on planned construction works by making basic data available on these works in the targeted area through a single information point, i.e. through a network operator at the request of a public communications network operator during a transitional period until the establishment of a single information point. Acceleration of the authorisation procedures necessary to set up high-speed electronic communications networks, pooling all relevant information on the process of issuing building works permits through a single information point. Regulation of specific dispute resolution procedures relating to access and joint use of physical infrastructure by accessing data on physical infrastructure and data on the introduction of construction works, as well as the requirement for co-ordination of construction works, and the establishment of HACOM by the body responsible for the resolution of those disputes. This proposal for a law on electronic communications proposes the transposition of Articles 8 and 9 of the Directive which regulates physical infrastructure within the building and prescribes the obligations of investors of a newly built building with regard to the construction of cable sewerage, access points and physical infrastructure within the building, the adaptation of the network of high speed, as well as the common antennae system for the reception of terrestrial radio television programs of vertical and horizontal cable, and the installation of other necessary equipment. The application of those obligations also relates to extensive works on building reconstruction. Furthermore, this proposal amends and complements the legal framework for effective change, application in the domestic legal order of EU Regulation 2015/2120, which ensures the protection of equal and non-discriminatory traffic management in the provision of internet access services, transparency measures to ensure open internet access and the protection of related rights of end-users of services, and establishes a new mechanism for determining retail prices for regulated rooming services at EU level in order to abolish retail additional rooming fees that have been abolished in EU Member States and European Economic Area countries since 15 June 2017. In particular, it should be stressed that the amendment to Article 51(1) extending the right of end-users of services to apply for a dispute settlement before the Agency and the dispute relating to a complaint concerning infringement of the right to protect access to the open internet. Obsolete contested claims shall not run during the settlement of the dispute before the Agency, and the operator of public communications services shall not, at that time, initiate the forced collection procedure or grant the contested demand. The proposal to amend and supplement the law further harmonizes the provisions on a single European emergency number 112 and the EU call as well as other emergency numbers in the Republic of Croatia with the relevant acquis. The adoption of the proposed law will remove obstacles to the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks to end-users of services, which primarily relate to the absence and non-compliance of existing physical infrastructures within buildings, and make it difficult to access operators of electronic communications networks that intend to set up high-speed electronic communications networks in several residential buildings. Furthermore, by prescribing the conditions for promoting the construction of high-speed electronic communications networks and related electronic communications infrastructures by public means in accordance with the State aid rules in commercially invaluable areas of the Republic of Croatia, full implementation, a strategy for the development of broadband access to the Republic of Croatia, in the period from 2016 to 2020 and a framework national programme for the development of broadband infrastructure in areas where there is insufficient commercial interest in investment. The Republic of Croatia is a public resource for the construction of that electronic communications infrastructure and high-speed networks through European, structural and investment funds, and the adoption of this law provides a legal framework for the demonstration of the required interest, for the construction, and for the deadlines prescribed, the obligations to be met by the investor on the basis of the market interest shown, as well as the appropriate criminal sanctions in the event of compliance with the commitments undertaken. This final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Communications provides for the responsibilities of HACOM to carry out the tasks of the holder of the framework national programme for the development of an infrastructure, broadband network, where there is insufficient commercial interest in investment. The application of the Law on Cost Reduction Measures, the setting of high-speed electronic communications networks from December 2016 and this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Communications should contribute to changing the state of access to broadband, which I cited at the beginning of my debate and bring us closer to achieving the objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe, i.e. by 2020, each citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the possibility of accessing the Internet at least 30 megabits per second. And at least 50% of households have a subscription to Internet access at 100 megabits per second. This is the EU's goal, so it is logical and positive that we too pursue this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44645	Thank you. You have four replicas. The first replica Mr. Darko Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, when you talk about the representation of broadband internet in Croatia, from the perspective of most Croats, it looks like I'm telling you that we have 1,000 kuna together, with you having 980 and I have 20 kuna. The wide-ranging Internet seems to you from a perspective of more or less everyone except Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. And that's because for the last 27 years, private telecom operators have invested and built exclusively where they're worth it, or where there are the most people, where they can sell the best and the fastest services and where first they'll get back everything they invest. And these are the cities, that is, urban areas. And that's why we have the situation we have. We have a situation that in Zagreb you have everything, alternative 5, 6, 10, 15 as far as you want, but 100 km from Zagreb you have nothing or only one way of access that is nowhere near what you should have today, in accordance with time. However, it was precisely the point of European funds, the EU, that we use all that money from European funds to build infrastructure where it is not available. And a few years ago, the government then continued other governments, made a decision to unite more than 8,000 km of optical infrastructure in state ownership, put under the supervision of transmitters and connections and the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure, and it was supposed to be one of the projects that would be the foundation, bearer, the entire future construction of infrastructures in places where they are not presently located, from the island to the rural settlements... and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's what I'm taking the opportunity to point that out to you, and I'm using the opportunity to ask the legislators this way and give us a report, whether today or in some written form, in which phase is the project of uniting optical infrastructure, what's going on with it, and what's the role of all this in this approach with structural funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44647	Thank you, thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44648	I agree with you, my colleague, that's exactly what I said, so Lika-Senj County has a small number of connections because they have a small population, but let's say Virovitica-Podravska has the smallest percentage, when we divide the number of connections from the population. Lika-Senjska is somewhere in the middle of even the Republic of Croatia. So, about there, the interest of the operator, and I am through the replicas of the former colleagues who discussed today, the interest of the operator will always be where most of those who are willing to join and where they can return the funds invested very quickly. And about rural municipalities, then, it comes down to the fact that the municipalities are willing to give themselves space and infrastructure, just to get a broadband internet compared to the whole discussion that we have today, and then often, to tell operators to build something and in rural areas, our mayors and mayors go into negotiations with operators and give them and without compensation that they can build on their territory, just so they can succeed, too, that their citizens have the possibility of joining the broadband Internet, at least similar to that in larger cities. And in larger cities, or even in medium towns, operators, of course, are ready and it's much easier to charge that fee that we've been discussing all day today than it is in small municipalities and small towns, where in principle, you've moved out more of your population and you've got 10, 15 houses left. Of course it's not in the interest of the operator to drag. I agree with you in a submerged fashion. We need to jump in with these EU funds, and that is why this law is a start, in a way, to use European funds to build a broadband internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44649	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44650	Thank you very much. Comrade Miro, we have witnessed today a single attempt to make a good bill, in a way only for the sake of one provision to turn in a completely different direction and the debate itself, but also the very essence of this law. She wanted to subscribe to this bill, all of which may be missed or all of which may be bad in the past 25 or 27 years when we talk about the area of telecommunications or electronic communications. We are trying to see here a reasoned debate as you have now done in front of the HDZ Club to prove that this law has very valuable, good provisions that serve only to improve the entire system and try to achieve better procedures to finally start using what is at our disposal, which is money from European funds, i.e.. The EU in terms of building a broadband internet. And what are we listening to today? We're hearing a story about someone losing something, mostly a local self-government unit. We, responsible on this side, do not lose and try to break this up in a way that is justified in saying that this law does not prevent anyone from exercising their right to compensation in a way that we are finally trying to create procedures that will avoid all that we have now and as the leaders of local self-government in relation to operators and that these things become clear. I think the story here we have a Hacom story cost a lot of money, there are illegalities etc. We're getting them back into the state budget. Why? We want to control their spending. No one is defending them as an agency to achieve everything they have the right to on the basis of compensation and all other regulations, but they finally have the supervision of the state budget in the sense that some of the things that we may have witnessed in the past, but also a number of other things that you have mentioned here are a good bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44651	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44652	My colleague, Boric, fully agreed with you, and already through the replicas during this debate, I have just tried to point out that we are trying to bring a good law through the debate to citizens as something where someone wants to do something against someone, or through this long debate, as if the local self-government unit were somehow opposed to all the operators that operate in their area. And from experience, anyone who's done a little bit of that kind of field work can know that they're actually co-workers, all field operators, and local self-government. Where it's not associates there, that community or the city doesn't even develop, there's nothing to build and there's no progress. Where they have found common language and where they are associates and where we have progress for citizens of cities and operators and local self-government there. So this attempt where someone is taken, and as some private-owned operators, it is appropriate, on the other hand, to try to give an example through replicas that one is where private property is located, and the other is where it is state property. We are going to open the electricity market, we are going into a lot of things, after all we have countless gas operators in Croatia. It's hard to limit what's more private, which should allow the law operator to benefit from, and not because he's a state operator and he's private. I don't think we can write laws like that and get into this big trap through this debate, and everything in style just to create one political play.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44653	Thank you. The last replica, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You colleagues said the fourth amendment to this law. So I see you're defending this law. You have read what the Proposer is essentially four times changing the law, but e.g. Article 30 should also be changed because of antenna pillars that are placed wherever they want and wherever they can. However, it has not changed exclusively because it protects teleoperators to work in the way they work so far in the Republic of Croatia and base stations, i.e. antenna pillars to be set however they want, without building permission, without measuring radiation. It's visible in my neighborhood in your neighborhood wherever you come. You say this law is well adapted to today's conditions, according to development, strategy. So why would they not pay for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia the right of service of T-Com, which is why the provision has changed outside the consultation... counseling is this part of the property manager, which is why local self-government would not market it. So look at the pictures, here I'm going to show you a picture just before I had what they're doing, look, here's your new T-Com technology working like this wherever they want and so on for the cultural good. ... in this case Sinja and it is not charged, do what they want, use the city's infrastructure, use the set pillars i.e. ... which he's building... is it hard to live he's been taken away from everything that the state has taken from him, and we favor the teleoperators that the HT gains invests in Montenegro. How many fewer workers we have today than 15 years ago in HT, check it out you know it and if you've given shares to your parents, here's colleague Misic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44655	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44656	My colleague Bulj, the first article we discuss all day is not changed compared to the last amendment of the law. So still, as we have pointed out several times already, the possibility of charging local self-government as it has been so far, remains to collect its fee. You've shown some images that talk about how operators sometimes have to do it on the ground because when you come in and you want to put in some building equipment to get broadband Internet then of course someone will say it, I don't want it to be, and someone who's in the interest of getting that connection will allow it, and then in such a way as you've shown it in the pictures you're improvising connections because whoever wants to connect to the Internet, and let's say I'm also coming up with a work where 30 megabits per second is just a dream, and not the reality of me wouldn't mind putting on my house the equipment that would allow me to be able to connect with 30 megabits per second. And he probably wouldn't ask for a fee for that kind of equipment. However, the right and every private person to seek compensation as well as local self-government remains in this law. And some of the things that usually happen with us in society are trying to go through this law to solve, changing those three words in one article. And I think even this amendment that I've replicated from the SDP as it's written would only still cause further problems because, as I've set an example, often you have a situation where someone manages and the grant owner is someone else, and then it turns out that both should be compensated for setting up any equipment on that particle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44657	Thank you. And now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So before us was the Law, the honourable secretary with assistants, who long awaited where the debates were and in the public, but there were significant changes where it was obviously appropriate for certain groups, that we do not now enter into the history of our own means of telecommunications in which they were privatized not to... no one, HDZ began and in the late '90s and in 2000 SDP ended that privatisation. And I remember just at the time General Gotovina was arrested because it went under the grain of those 25+1 shares and, of course, big damage to the Croatian state, local self-government, regional self-government, Croatian people who created it, who paid for it because the fact that the people who paid for the infrastructure, who owned the infrastructure, who owned the land, the local self-government that owned the land that they didn't get, were not compensated, i.e. that they're not given shares. It's simply by one move, the great economies of wise men and others who simply used to give a shot, what we created, i.e. Our fathers, our generations were given to Deute Telecom. Which is why we need to ask them. The fact that it's irrefutable here, and I've shown it here from the end of 2012 where the infrastructure is built wherever they think it is, so I said, I'm going to mention it one more time, so I brought here pictures and examples of how to sample a space that I can't work in Germany. Here's to the cultural good in the city center, look at the picture and don't pay the kuna for this. But also look at these nets all over the city, the city center, and I even said when you get to Sinjska Alku you'll be going through the old century-old Maroon woodwork planted 100 years ago. So a huge Croatian crime scene that has made political elites in this House, which is now fundamentally defending this proposal, i.e. change after the meeting of the Presidents of Administration and Plenkovic one change which will essentially damage local self-government and regional self-government, including state self-government, state, public, which are the owners of the space and will not be able to open the right of service precisely because of this part of what its right of service is abolished, means most of it, most of it, essentially, because most of it is property and not solved. You have many means of roads, paved, not paved, which are not registered and maintained by local self-government. And through this space passes means the infrastructure of Deute Telecom, i.e. our Croatian, i.e. The Croatian that they took away and the fact is that we have to protect it and move this part, essentially, by moving one piece... shows that after meeting T-com's chairman, Plenkovic and he obviously made a deal, what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's obvious that the real estate manager was previously listed in the e-consultation, there was no objection, I would ask the secretary to come out here again and say publicly and to say who made the remark, perhaps a phone call from a lady or a gentleman, that management president... , Deute Telecoma, Tcoma, i.e. One branch of Deutche Telecom, we handed it over in constitutional hands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I hope that here we Assembly representatives will support amendments that are in the interest of protecting local self-government because the fact that the right of service in Croatia local self-government does not charge in sufficient numbers, in sufficient value solely because of the law we have. Also, if it had been this law, it was intended to go in a better direction then the law of Article 30 would have been amended, the establishment of antenna pillars or base stations. However, I have given the amendment, will now say breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have given it exclusively, let it be freely refused to be seen to be protected and here teleoperators, that it had no intention to arrange this part of the base stations which numerous associations, so mainly the Croatian association of electromagnetic radiation has warned for years and even formerly previous parliamentary representatives, here is Miss Mirela Holly, also in previous terms, talked a lot about the harmfulness and essentially everything that the base stations, i.e. The teleopers are working and they don't work in their own countries. They don't need the consent of local self-government, the consent of neighbors, they're not in, they don't fall into spatial plans, they don't need to be, they just do what they want and what they want. We are basically being destroyed by the environment and our space, endangering our health and not investing in infrastructure, but using existing infrastructures such as roads, setting up new electricity, new cables and so on, and to invest, in fact, someone would make money, from projectors to the execution of works. This law is a law that we see essentially at the last minute, it was changed after the meeting of the T-COM Board and the President for Croatia and the Government of Plenkovic and thus proved to be the change and disappearance of e-consultation. the whole public debate, which is one article where the owners i.e. The managers of this space would be able to charge what would be normal because numerous local self-governments such as the entire Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, which local self-government cannot pay for maintenance of winter service, fire departments, cannot solve any problem, simply T-COM takes away their right. Therefore, in Croatia, profits are obviously as well as in banks for numerous fees and billions are leaving citizens' pockets, so in this case, once again, bad practice continues, bad policy would therefore ask the parliamentarians for amendments made by the clubs and the SDP and the Most, and I hope that others will also give MPs from the HDZ, mainly the mayors, the chiefs, for the purpose of protecting their local budgets and interests to fill their income side, that they will also be able to support it or if they have the courage to give the amendment, or the promoter himself will realize that without and after public debate, a very important part of what should be paid to the Croatian State of telecommunications is removed. However, there is obviously no interest in this so far because we see that many advocates defend this law, defend it in a way that it is good, that it is advanced, but the fact that it is not so and that this law needs a comprehensive amendment i.e. that one new whole law, which would basically protect interests, is because that law that changes every little bit, this four times, means that it is not good and a law that protects the interests of citizens and not that we are still essentially what we shouldn't be, that we are comfortable with foreign interests and history tells us about all privatisations and, in particular, in this case, in the case of network activities, that we're eligible for foreigners. The regulatory agency also has to do its part of the job, respect the laws, but the main man himself has obviously left, prefers to insult his employees, head of HACOM, means a man who is obliged to travel abroad to spiritual reconstructions, to pay the most expensive premises in the state, rent for his agency, rather than regulate those rights in the law, so that a comprehensive and human potential that mismanages, means as a regulator and this law simply favours a foreign tele-operator where the state summit is clearly involved. I am sorry, I would like Prime Minister Plenkovic to have a strong guard, to use all of his friends to whom he is often called after the Council of Europe, who slap him wherever they reach him, to get him on every matter, from Savudrija in this case now, in any case we are losers, but if he will side with Croatia... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44659	Thank you. Now you're going to be valicing three MPs, so you can finish what you're about to say. He's the first Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44660	Dear colleague Bulj, you are absolutely right that this entire consultation process about this law has been compromised, but you have not accurately provided information. There were comments by HT and HGK on this concept of real estate manager, and what is even more interesting, the ministry rejected those remarks so that it would eventually play out in favour of HT and oust the concept of real estate manager. And no one claims that they want to impute to us colleagues Boris and colleagues of HDZ, that they can't charge units of local self-government, but they have to run administrative disputes, it's a long-standing process that costs and what I want here and we expected support from our colleagues, especially if they are mayors and mayors, to facilitate the units of local self-government that these rights, the right to compensation, are easier to achieve. And it doesn't matter to us whether this amendment of mine that I've given, I hear you'll give, you've just introduced me to the fact that you're going to give the amendment, or whether an amendment from the SDP will be accepted, here's the government having all the instruments in its hands, there's some government's professional services to allow the units of local self-government to make it easier to achieve their right to compensation. We do not need to profit in some way here, nor do we want to call government, my colleagues from HDZ, we want cities and municipalities to be able to make that right as easy as possible. This is not any politics, calling anyone, we will be happy if the government prepares such an amendment, supporting what counterpart Boris and HDZ are trying to do, it is absolutely not true, means they are imputing us... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44661	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, and I'm sorry, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44662	Thank you very much for warning me that there were objections and that by HT, which the ministry refused. Well, here's the secretary he'd like to ask, which is why the ministry turned this down in terms of the real estate manager that they should pay for the right of service. Which is why the ministry refused to comment here publicly, here I would ask you to immediately make a statement to HT and it is finally deleted, it remains, meaning during the whole debate, deleted after the meeting of HT and Prime Minister Plenkovic with some other two ladies here, I can't remember the last name now. One is Miss Misetic. Ma'am, I'm sorry. Which is why it's gone, and you refused as unfounded by HT. And my colleague Grumoja, you're right here and here you need to return this part to go and the real estate manager, to pay the manager the right of service to the real estate manager that local self-government or anyone else. And in this way it will be just and just to finally, because otherwise there will never be any injustice to the Croatian people who have been made by the political elites sitting here and looking at it, and they have done more damage than many occupiers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, more damage. Well, not just telecommunications. Let's look at the sea, let's look at the Adriatic, the economic belt. Let's take a look at everything we've killed, General. ... Same thing, same thing, same structure [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The same structures have done so in Croatia. ... [[Mr. Glasnović, don't speak from the bench.]] General, if you were a soldier, so was I. [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]] [[Please don't! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] It's not military. It's not military. It's the same structure. It was seen when the archive was opened, when the law archives were opened, where we did it from MOST that no one was in this assembly. And don't interrupt me. [[Intruder Radin: It's over.]] Honor to you as General Don't protect those before, and before the '90s, they just kept going. [[Mr. Bulj, it's almost time. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44663	Time's up. First we'll continue with the replicas, then I'll give you my word, Mr. Pernar. Only the replicas to finish. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44664	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, in some things I can agree with you but most of them not. Let's remember 25 years ago that we didn't have Internet, phones, we didn't have anything. In the war when we were on the Internet, we couldn't even use the phone, phone call. We talk about who wins, who loses. I'd say everyone gets the truth here, and the investor gets the most. How to get an investor not to make that much money is a question. Yeah. You said the pillars and you showed the pictures that they existed there with you. It's true, but it's an old infrastructure. Imagine in 20 years or 10 years when there are no more pillars, when the satellite sends all the information and when the networks are downloaded, it's probably 10, 15 years from now. Because 20 years ago, we had no idea what it was like. And today when we watch who loses, everyone gets. Why? Now imagine someone selling watermelon from Metkovic to Osijek? He would have to go to the post office first, then post office in Split, then Split in Zagreb, then Zagreb in Osijek. It's a process for how long. Today, this same customer from Osijek or anywhere here on the Internet is paying for it, and tonight the tow truck is driving for whatever destination it wants. Now, that's progress, and we want to make progress. How do these interest groups, as well as the telecoms, get HT to take the money? We will probably have to regulate that according to European laws. And I'm certainly in favor of how much they make in Europe to do it with us, to make them so impulses, to make it so cheap for our citizens. So, I think we've made progress, And we can't just talk about problems. [[You're welcome. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44665	Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44666	I didn't understand the most part of the debate. Now, did that happen because of what you said about 20 years ago? We're talking about the right of service, that pay means to local self-government, to you as the owner of the land because you paid to go over your land phone infrastructure. This is the rightful service of what the people have created. Do you understand? So to you, you're talking about the Internet, the speed of the Internet. So no one's about the Internet, we're talking here, we're fighting and you're tripping, I know you're in power now, i.e. One part of your party is in power, one is in opposition. Therefore, we are struggling to build a optical network of Croatia and be owned by Croatia and that Croatia has. And that's kind of national security. We've given complete connections to foreign investors. The Croatian state is a tribal to protect its interests and this is the essence of Croatian ownership and Croatia to charge from other distributors. But it was given to a foreign investor without a kuna. So you, Mr. Muscle, had to pay my father to connect the phone, to build him an infrastructure, but it's all owned by the German. ... It can't be over, it's not worth the rule you just said. [[You can't hear it.]] Don't follow that rule. Croatian interests and security and interests regarding the acquisition itself, because it is Croatian peoples, by Croatian territory, by free Croatian state Technology, I mean, look, I can't understand what you're saying. [[Intruder: We can't track technology.]] Really, ever since you got into the government, I can't understand you. Professor Lovrinović speaks one thing, your second vice president of the party Mr. Martinovic third. I mean, make a deal, then take the club out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44667	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44668	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bulj. So here I think that today is the topic and what many MPs are actually afraid of, which is whether this law that belongs to a group of laws that need to set a clear legislative framework in which units of local self-government, municipalities, cities can come up with their claims under the laws. If the law is not good, if there is legal uncertainty, and some colleagues are here who are mayors, the mayors have warned. Comrade Bull, listen to me, you won't know what I said. My fellow mayors, the mayors warned that because of this legal uncertainty, even teleopers determine how much they will miss them, I realized today, instead of even ten times the amount they offer and these are the things that should be legally resolved not to come to this. As far as the base stations here in the Assembly are concerned, they are on several occasions warned, because it is not really known what an impact it is on harmfulness, on human health. Look, we're in Slavonia, the artist, we managed to destroy the milling industry in Slavonia. Lucky we have silos, so these silos now serve as, like, the place where the base stations are stationed. And you know what I noticed? There are no more pigeons on the silos. Some say maybe because they have nothing to eat, and maybe these base stations are bothering them, so maybe pigeons warn us that some things aren't really, don't have a good impact on people's health. In this regard, legal proposals must be clear and detailed in order to protect public money and then to protect people’s health later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44669	Thank you. Mr. Bull, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44670	Here, I'll start at the end. So base stations are a story to themselves. Of course the silos are empty, the grain is gone over dinner, overnight in one night at a hurry and now it's used for base stations. In the Croatian state, it is not in Germany, it is not in Sweden either, therefore, teleoperators are coming, the procedures are well known, as the antenna pillars are being set, and there are no criteria for us. So, you're changing a certain balcony... In your building, you have to ask for consent from your neighbors, you need some kind of change, permission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here even about simple rules, simple buildings don't have base stations. So they don't damage the space, what we have. As for the global health Federation, it has already warned about human health damage in 2013, and mainly children and the increased number of tumours within 400 metres, 200 and 400 most, so this has been proven. Of course, in our rules and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Construction that I have directed, they will not implement it, nor by this law, now art. 30 have not changed, I have given the amendment, regardless of what they will say is not according to the Rules of Procedure, just to prove that this law had no indication of aid, essentially to help local self-government, to protect people's health. It's visible at the base stations. As for local leaders, local leaders of course warn. Here I am, showing, as councilman seven, eight years ago, sending letters, pointing to a mess in space because of the infrastructure used by T-COM and not charging local self-government. So, a huge mess, and billions of billions remain in the pockets of HT, i.e. Deutsche Telekom. So, by this law, we must support the amendment, this law is obvious, as Prime Minister Plenkovic said, as he was referring to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44671	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Mr. Maras, individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's something I want to say about the final proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications, because in addition to HACOM's report, we have a very rare opportunity to talk about these topics, and I think today's debate has shown that there is enough interest amongst MPs to talk about this segment of society that is often underestimated and may seem irrelevant, and it is one large part of the Croatian economy in the incomes themselves, but also in the very importance of the economy. I'm not going to go to the level where we talked today because I think this country has its own acts that clearly direct the story of electronic communications. And the fact is that there have been a lot of gaps in the past and we have missed really much, especially in three years of membership from 2013 to 2016 when we had no basis at all to be able to run for any programme from European funds to develop our electronic infrastructure or broadband internet. It was only 2016 that the strategy for the development of broadband internet in the Republic of Croatia was adopted until 2023, which clearly states that there are around 690m euros or nearly five billion kunas at our disposal that we should use to avoid today some of the discussions that were being held here today. However, what does it all come down to? In the end, we all know that we have a cell phone in our hand and we're very happy the moment it works, when we're available, when we can communicate with it. But the moment a cell phone or a machine doesn't work, they start looking for the culprits. Whether it's the operators, whether it's the Prime Minister, whether it's the president of the state or the parliamentary representative, we mostly know how to find the culprit quickly. And the culprit is often not guilty, and this is why we bear witness to the debates that we have witnessed today. We have tried to make a good bill of law a matter of whether local self-government can or will or should receive a certain fee from a service operator or the right path, or this law will make it impossible to do so. And we've been listening to a few variations, and we've looked at some pictures, even though the role of local self-government is clear in the whole process. Whoever comes from local self-government knows what kind of problems he's facing. We also had these problems after 2008 when the first law was passed and after 2012 when the law was amended and after 2014 and local self-government is not only with this law in trouble but with many other laws because it has to enter either agreements or disputes. Did everyone succeed in exercising their right? They are not, nor based on the existing law, obviously there will be problems and the basis of this law. But procedures should be prescribed in order to reduce space for someone to be arbitrary, to do what he wants only, to take advantage of someone who may be doing some damage, because so far it has been clear how the right of service can be obtained, i.e. up to the fee to be paid by the operator using a specific infrastructure in a particular municipality by such infrastructure, i.e. the right to use certain properties or spaces through which that infrastructure is passing. And then we heard a question today, i.e. Assume, no one pays anyone anything. And there's truth. Then we heard that this law further centralises rather than decentralisation relations between the government, i.e. State-to-local self-government relations. And we forget what's been going on so far. You, if you are the head of local self-government, have your own municipal or city council, which is to make certain decisions in relation to the operator who has the infrastructure. And if we can't find ourselves or agree on what that fee is and, of course, the operator always wants to and based on the existing law without these changes to pay as little cost as possible, then we come into a conflict relationship. Is the development of infrastructure in relation to the conflict in this area of the municipality or the city? It's not happening. Why isn't it happening? Because the municipality or the city... is to prohibit the right to access infrastructure i.e. any construction of the operator's additional infrastructure until it solves this relationship, for instance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And many councils have resorted to that as well as the mayors and mayors, if they have banned the right to access some infrastructure facilities owned by them to come to an agreement. And that's what happened. We have the fact that the municipal council of mayors and mayors can even sign such a kind of agreement or contract because these amounts are often above the amount they can handle on their own. So the municipal council and the city council have all the options, there's only one side, so they're all making some kind of decision. Is it coming to the other side to abuse some of the positions we've heard a lot about today? He's coming. But I believe that this law plus the strategy for the development of broadband is a real foundation so that we can start using the resources at our disposal. It costs us 120m euros a year or almost a billion kunas that we still cannot use to have faster networks, so that a fellow representative from Sinj could be available anywhere, wherever he is at that point. And there aren't any pictures of what he showed. But that raises the question of both responsibilities and local self-government why she let a part of the infrastructure in her area look like this. Who's there in power, and what are they doing so they can't handle it? I don't have a problem with pictures like that. Because a lot depends on local self-government. And putting everything on one side and asking for the same side and speed and availability and all possible benefits that we can have when we talk about electronic telecommunications is simply not a correct relationship. Because we all want faster, they show reports from HACOM that Croats now love more and more surfs, that gigabytes grow in the sky every year for tens of millions of gigabytes more and more, and we're talking less and less but we're spending more on the Internet. Who does he commit to? It obliges operators to invest exactly what I'm talking about. And they understand that and they have to invest because their incomes fall into the part where we talk about conversations and they grow in the part where we talk about using the Internet. And they figured it out, we're from the average prices for 1GB in a few years come to some let's call it so reasonable prices, they're not good yet but they'll be even less because competition finally does its part. Let's look at the 2010 revenue, let's look at the revenues I don't know all three operators or the entry of a third operator into the mobile communications area as it affected all relations within the entire system. These are topics to discuss but not like this, this is not good, one article is not good, someone in the government had a meeting and that's it. A conspiracy theory that needs to convince those who don't read this law that there's nothing wrong here. You're the same guy who's yelling at HACOM and we're putting him in the budget to correct it, that's what. to control it in costs but it's not good, it's good, it's good and all the other provisions. And it is clear that even after this law and after these provisions there will be administrative disputes and local self-government and operators, they will be safe, as they have been so far. Finally, administrative courts will have to start making certain decisions. But we can't say for ourselves that in our area everything is beautifully arranged, that we have an orderly cadastre, that we have arranged property-legal relations, that every unclassified road is clear if there is no other property than the ownership of the unit of local self-government which is not true. And through many other laws we're trying to fix that system right now. Because what happens when the audit comes? The first opinion you get as a conditional opinion is, you haven't solved the ownership issue on unclassified roads. They don't ask if you have any money for it, if you have any money to buy out I don't know 12 properties in a dozen of them who own it, if you have money to pay for all these elaborates and implement it all, but here's your conditional opinion, you haven't solved it because the law has ordered you to do it. And then we come to this story and what you charge and it's not yours. So we hear that some would live off the rent on the part where his infrastructure started or went through his part of the country. That's not possible in a legally regulated state. So we're trying to solve a complete problem. The beginning is a strategy, the continuation is this law. And also what counterpart Shuker said, a series of related laws that address the issue of infrastructure. We spoke recently, I mentioned this today, about the Realty Catastrophe Act. We get past it but forget it. Who owns it now, draw it out, who owns it to give the data to solve the system completely. But this country must be better tomorrow than it was yesterday. And that's the intensity of this law. Not this story of who wants to cheat or cheat on a conspiracy theory who was sitting with someone at a meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44674	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44675	I understand your good intentions and noble intentions in solving the problem in this matter, and of course electronic communications are very important and it is something today without which you can't. But the fact is that during the debate on the real estate manager, it's about the right of duty and the obligation to pay for the right of service, that he only objected, I ask once again to confirm from the ministry... So Telekom is the only one who objected to what the ministry refused as unfounded, am I right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's easy to see through everything. Then there's a meeting in the government, it's wiped out, suddenly the real estate manager's data disappears. There's a basic problem. We're talking about the right of service to the real estate manager. The one who cares because we know that property-legal relations in the Republic of Croatia are catastrophic, from the Austrian-Hungarian state, here is Ivan Šipic, who can confirm, in our area, that from Austria-Hungarian are still our granaries, everything is 100 years ago. very little has been settled property-law and with this real estate manager and that part would have been resolved. Because a number of local self-governments have paved, maintained numerous roads where telecommunications passes, they maintain, and not their property, for hundreds of years they have not transferred property, and they manage it and maintain it at the expense of local self-government. Then what's the reason HT doesn't pay the right to serve the local self-government? But it's a huge part of the cake, it's about billions, in the area of the Republic of Croatia that stays in the pocket, so in this case, T-COM. Once again, he would ask the secretary to explain this case of objections to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44676	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44677	Thank you very much. Comrade Miro, once again this law does not abolish the right to compensation. It does not abolish the right to compensation that local self-government should receive from the operator, but determines how to obtain compensation. So far, we've had a situation next. So as head of local self-government, you asked HACOM to act under the Law on Electronic Communications and to issue a warrant to the operator to conclude a contract with local self-government on the right of service or on the right path. An operator would offer a contract that would come to the mayor or mayor with whom he would go to the council city or municipal to adopt him. And then she would adopt him, but the operator would stall again, and he would look at his interests. The right of service has more expensive, the right path is cheaper, they have their tariffs. But many local self-governments have exercised their right to do so, and they charge, annually. They are not small amounts, 300 thousand, 500 thousand, depending on the size of local self-government and established infrastructure. And this law does not abolish it, it only detaileds a different procedure which will again end in the Administrative Court as it did in this court. Under this law. So let's not say wrong, as I would say, means with the intention of speaking wrongly, to be important, or to turn out to be smart. We've been through all of this and simply after this there will be a conflict between local self-government and operators because everyone will protect their interest, the interest of the municipalities to get the funds and the interest of the operator is that as little as possible, obviously. But there's always a decision from that chief and community council that, at some point, if he's not satisfied, without a problem forbidding access to infrastructure owned by him, and he says you won't be doing what you've been doing here until we've solved our relationship. So there are models, but that's not the way. We need to develop infrastructure. And that's what this law is based on a strategy on the development of broadband internet, it does. And let's not confuse people who unfortunately don't all read the law but when they listen here, there might be a different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44678	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44679	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, esteemed secretary with assistants. Here before us now means a very important proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, so the fourth time is to amend this law which therefore says that this law should be done in one way to protect both public and local self-government and to protect the state and regional self-government. Here is the basic problem where it happened, so we need to solve these relations legally, between the teleoper and that. HT in this case as a monopoly in the Croatian state, we will not talk about the privatisation that took place by HDZ and ended the SDP, we will not talk about this case. But we're going to talk about that in this debate there was a sign that the right of service is paid to the real estate manager, that the objection was only given to HT and that the ministry refused to object to the HT, secretary if I disagree, I don't know if you can confirm it, but that is a fact, fellow MPs that the only objection, one of the key objections to this real estate manager that it meant to be owned, because ownership relations in the Republic of Croatia are not well resolved, mainly on local self-government, which is why I call on you and I have given the amendment and me and my colleague Grmoya, and a number of other MPs to support this amendment, to return this part. Because most of it is a property-legal tie, and a large part of our cities, local self-government, they manage it, they maintain it, as I said, the unclassified roads that are paved literally, that do clean and maintain that area and the fact is that they can't be God on earth and that simply after the meeting, that's the fact, Prime Minister, we support it, if he resists this after the meeting of the prime minister and president of HT's administration, this part of the property manager has been expelled. Out of procedure. In e-consultation it is very visible and easily verifiable. That's what the public needs to know. It's a huge amount of money that goes to a foreign investor, i.e. The foreign owner who does not care about Croatian development is more guided by it in Germany, does not behave in a way that the base stations set up or antenna pillars in Germany, as it puts us, it is not even changed by this law. And I will personally make an amendment to article 30 around the base stations, no matter what the applicant says. That's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. For what? To show that we need to change this whole law and protect and health in terms of basic antenna pillars of people. It's a law that's been transferred to the Ministry of Health and Simple Building that should be transferred to the Ministry of Civil Engineering absolutely don't trim anything teleoperators in setting up the base stations except that there's a setup at your window where your kids don't ask you to find someone who owns that land, rents it, and that's that. We, as ordinary citizens, cannot afford it. Therefore, here the trinity only respects the law. It's the same for everyone and nothing else. And therefore, in this way we will strengthen the numerous local self-governments that have fallen out of the assisted areas, and not exercise ownership rights over it, they have no right to ownership because of the unsettled relations in the ownership books that have been neglected. And that's one of the biggest problems of the Catastrian book in the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the property manager would exercise the right to take sides in the local self-government and development of his unit, and that would be a less burden for both the state and local self-government that could solve its municipal problems through what this Croatian telecom, owned by the country, is only called Croatia, which invests its profits in Montenegro, in other countries, is firing our people. There are fewer and fewer workers. You can check that out as well. Therefore, I believe that this change that has gone away at some point should be returned. I know that you will support the amendment with the hope that both the optical network will build Croatia and will be owned by Croatia, the Croatian company, and not that it will be German, and that we do not want to flirt simply for both resources and potential, and for the sake of national security, we must have our ties in Croatian ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44680	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44681	Thank you very much. Here I just wanted to ask my colleague finally, since, finally, on behalf of the Most, we have a representative named Grmoy who has tabled an amendment that amends and reads the same thing in the bill. Why do we change paragraph 6, you write that paragraph 6 is changed and said, and it is the same as in the bill. My colleagues are Thunderbolts. And you didn't see? ... It says the same thing in the law, and all the time you're attacking it today, and you're offering the same as the amendment that the government offered. [[You can't hear it.]] I mean, I'm trying to figure out what you want from this debate except to give the impression that you're always protecting something and everyone else is attacking something. And sometimes I too doubt whether we need more government and anything, the Parliament, the state when Miro Bulj and Mr. Grmoja protect everyone in Croatia from the sky, mountains, mountains, countries, good things, everything else. I don't think it's enough to say something, but you offered us an amendment equal to what it says here in the bill. And what am I supposed to think about today is what you've been wanting to do all day here when we again claim that the matter of compensation is not at stake. Because you gave what it says here. And you're convincing us that local self-government is losing everything with this, and we're just prescribing a different way of determining certain processes that need to happen. So now you explain to me what you meant by this amendment that is identical to the text of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44682	Thank you very much. My friend Bulj, you didn't ask for a word first, and I didn't give it to you. [[Attack Bulj: A fellow Grmo...]] Okay, maybe I didn't see it, though I'm pretty good at it. But I certainly didn't give it to you, so I'll let it do it anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44683	An apology. Comrade Boric, I don't know what a fellow bushman has given the amendment. I know which one I gave, to return as it was in the e-consultation the same thing that the ministry suggested that the amendment would soon arrive at the benches and you'll see it. A colleague of Grmo submitted his amendment. We'll discuss it. And the fact is, I don't know how you're going to go back to your local self-government and your local self-government and explain that where he's not the owner, where he runs city, local self-government or community that he won't have the right to serve. I don't know how you'll explain it. I'll just give you the amendment. If you won't support this Mr. Grmoya, support mine now that it comes, an amendment where the real estate manager simply returns. It shouldn't be owned, but if the road is unclassified it's not owned by a city registered to pay. Simple! The fact that the ministry accepted the Croatian Telecom's objection, but after the meeting of Plenkovic and the Head of HEP Management, HT of course changed it. That's how it's gonna be with the optical network. They're not... We're protecting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if you were doing your job, your previous fellow MPs, Miro Bulj, would certainly not have been a representative. Miro Bulj would now be at his house on Suhač near Sinj and deal with what he does. And you brought this country here to sell it for petty scavengers, interests mostly in telecommunications. We could discuss how they went and owned them and who financed them. They were funded by people, our citizens, fathers in stamps, and that fat to get a phone, into their house connection, and today they're owned by foreign property, and that goes through their particles and via public particles. And this law pleases, I claim public secretary, assistant, also Mr. Saric, who you are from the Cetina region, and I claim that it is convenient here and that it was taken down after a public debate and after e-consultation. that it was removed after the meeting of Plenkovic and the president of HT Management. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44684	Thank you very much. We will now give our word to the esteemed Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Tomislav Mihotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44685	Once again repeat the change after the consultation, which is why it happened, that it was no longer in the text that was then listed in the proposal before the consultation by the real estate manager. Since the implementation of the public consultation, until the law has been referred to in the procedure, we have carried out further analyses and submitted such a proposal, since, after further harmonisation with the Property Act and other real rights, it has been established that such a concept does not know that law. Also, this erasure of the concept is also in line with the case law of the High Administrative Court. In carrying out his judicial control of HACOM solutions, the High Administrative Court has always had the same practice, i.e. a unique position, that property managers are not entitled to compensation for the right path. I can also quote one of the verdicts I have here. In addition, the infrastructure operator's obligation to pay the real-time compensation exists exclusively for the owner of the property on which he made the electronic communications infrastructure. So based on those two facts we dropped, this is the words of the real estate manager. Now there was a whole series of comments, about how to create the conditions to register property and then the fee can be legally collected, among other things the Road Law gives that possibility, that on public roads, we talked about doing the booklet of public roads. This is what certain municipalities have done, and they can charge this fee without a problem. I mean, I don't count it all now, maybe I'll drop some, but I know a lot of them who did it and based it on it and realised it right. But, of course, it is a complex process, it is long-term, Croatian roads have done a pilot project based on the Law of Roads and implemented it through the catastres and land and have finally reached a solution that regulated it. Also, the esteemed Mrs. Mrak-Taritash mentioned legalisation in infrastructure facilities, which would also facilitate the regulation of all of this. In addition, the State Geodetic Administration has a process that is ongoing, i.e. a project that is under way and implemented by the World Bank, based on which infrastructure books are carried out. A few other things were mentioned in the argument, about guessing. This law certainly does not suit anyone in particular not the teleoperators, but rather the primary task of the law is to further align with the legal acquis of the EU and normally, this is all expensive additional incentive to all units of local self-government, and the ministry will also help as much as possible to enroll ownership rights and to avoid any further disputes like this. Mr. Bully mentioned anarchy in setting up Athens pillars. The establishment of Athens pillars is governed by a specific government regulation, which forms an integral part of the establishment plan for pillars which is an integral part of this Regulation, while the protection against electromagnetic radiation is prescribed by a regulation which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. As far as ownership of the access network is concerned, there have been such issues. There's a maximum decision on local self-government units. The ownership of the access network developed by European funds is realised on 3 models. One is a private model when the network is built by operators and it remains owned by them. Then, the second is a public model, when the network builds units of local self-government and the network remains in public ownership and on it operators only provide their services. And the third is a model, a private, public partnership. The decision on one of these three models is independently made by the local self-government unit. And what was finally a question was about making a possible new law. The EU is under way to develop an EU code on electronic communications, which will fully revise the existing regulatory framework and the EU framework, and, consequently, Croatia as well as all other countries, over a year, two, will adapt to this and a new Telecommunications Act will be adopted that will respect all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44686	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. The first is a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44687	Thank you very much, esteemed secretary Mihotić. The fact is that you said after a public debate that it was essentially your answer to T-COM, i.e. Croatian HT, that you gave the answer that it was left, that you didn't delete essentially this part that we're talking about, means the land manager, the real estate manager, to delete it. You're, uh, erased later, you're objecting, that's the key problem. So the real estate manager, after he objected to HT, you replied that it was HT that you didn't accept it. If it were not legally founded, after a meeting in the government, the diameter of Plenkovic and HT director were deleted. Explain this to me why you did not respond to HT in this way as you are now but after the meeting of Prime Minister Plenkovic and HT Director. As for base stations, if we had a law at the Ministry of Health at the Department of Civil Engineering, we have a regulation at the Ministry of Transport, but also here in Article 30, things can change, things can change in part. In Croatia, teleoperators can do whatever they want on base stations. For example, on... at Sinj, in the morning the base station was set up for people under the window, without telling the neighbors, without measuring radiation damage The World Health Federation has brought evidence i.e. has shown in studies and studies that it is harmful to health. And now those people's children have to live here. It is not only an ecocid but it is a genocide that has been allowed for teleoperators in Croatia and for the harm of people and it does not pay for neither lip nor local self-government nor has it in spatial plans. And in protests, people absolutely don't react that they should react to neither inspections nor this regulatory agency react at all if it's in the interest of teleoperators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44688	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, the situation in Croatia today is such that T-Com pays local self-government units about a billion kuna per estimate, and it should pay two billion kuna. Then came these amendments and the additions of the laws that came in the first half of this year last public debate the promoter is your ministry, then you published it at e-consultation and formed some kind of proposal. And that proposal included the real estate manager and that formulation that you have proposed as a ministry should greatly facilitate the payment of your right to legal compensation that T-Com must pay to local self-government units and comment on that law was given by T-Com and HGK. And then you, as a ministry, refused it as unfounded so that later it would be thrown out, and now this procedure is even more difficult for local self-government units. Now, there may have been a meeting of the prime minister with the president of HT's administration, and now it's no problem that they meet, let them meet, but that it remains secret, that after that meeting, the public does not know what they were talking about, what happened there, what topics were meeting and then these changes that directly enable the HT to now not have to pay, or not to pay, but to make it difficult for cities and municipalities. If HT no longer has to pay for what it pays, it means that the company will have a higher profit, and if it has a higher profit out of Croatia, then the president of the administration who met with the prime minister will have a higher bonus. Now if it's not a favor to HT as a company, the president of HT's administration, then I don't know what it is. And you didn't answer the questions we asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44690	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Veschigay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44691	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a fellow secretary of state, I'm going to say first that I'm glad you've at least announced some kind of assistance to local self-government units in dealing with this problem. So we all agreed that we should go through with the construction of land books so that we can exercise these rights. But there's no reason why these proposed amendments that were in the original bill, and now you've got them here and all the parliamentary deputies through the amendments to not fit them, because local units, whether they have their property listed in the land books, so they have the property or have no right to make this fee. And you weren't right you said before I'll repeat it again, you don't have any judgment of the High Court that the real estate manager has no right to compensation, it's not and it's just not true. And unfortunately, thanks to this, there are many doubts that have been raised here in the Croatian Parliament today, and I also express them because we are limiting, we are making it really difficult for one right that can be one small step towards decentralisation because in the local environments each kuna is extremely important, the local environments spend their money much more rationally than the central state does. I'm going to look back at this one of yours for a little while, too, what you've brought up about access networks, building access networks, so you've mentioned three models, and I'm afraid we'll end up with just this first model, which is that only private operators are doing it again, because in this other model, it's true that 50% of the ESI funds are secured, but correct me if I'm wrong, it should ensure that local self-government doesn't have them. I expect there also to be at least a state to give certain incentive measures here and here that we can build that infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44692	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate with that, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44693	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 164. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives Club, MP Nikola Grmoja and MP Miro Bulj. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, with us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Tomislav Mihotić. Please come here, we're starting with the amendments, the first amendment of the representative of Nikola Grumoya. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44694	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Communications offers additional words. The unit of local self-government cannot be accepted for the reason that the unit of local self-government which does not own the property cannot be authorised by the right of way on that property in view of the general rules on ownership and other real rights and the applicable administrative judicial scratch under which the obligation of the infrastructure operator to pay the right of way compensation exists exclusively to the owner of the property on which it made the electronic communications infrastructure. On the other hand, units of local, regional self-government that are property owners are already covered by the existing provision. In the second part, this amendment is unnecessary because it is substantially identical with the amended provision of Article 28(6), which is proposed in Article 14 of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44695	Comrade Grmo, would you like to show yourself? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44696	I do not agree with the argument, namely from the proposal of the law which was in the public consultation and the remarks that came from HT, and the HGK to move the concept of the property manager, the Ministry of Transport rejected these remarks so that we would get a law in which we have no idea what it is, either directly, to HT or to Deutsche Telekom and to make it impossible for local self-government units to collect these claims, because we know well, and Deutsche Telekom knows that they are not resolved in the Republic of Croatia property-legislative relations. This is a direct favor to Deutsche Telekom by the Ministry of Transport. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44697	Let's vote on an amendment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to amendment number two of the distinguished representatives of my colleague Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44698	The amendment is also not accepted. This amendment shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal The Law on Electronic Communications proposes an additional concept of a real estate manager with the existing terms of a general good manager and a real estate owner, cannot be accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment to Article 14 of the final proposal of the law. Therefore, a legal or physical person who is not the owner of the property cannot be entitled to compensation for the right of way on that property. In view of the general rules on ownership and other real rights and the applicable administrative practice, according to which the obligation of an infrastructure operator to pay the right of way compensation exists exclusively to the owner of the property to which it has developed the electronic communications infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44699	Obviously fellow Bull, if you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44700	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After e-indication where HT's remark was that the general good manager was thrown out and what you're saying, and that the right and obligation to pay HT's service on that note is defined, it is you, if the promoter, exactly you, that is, I'm sorry that what the minister is not here you rejected it as unfounded because the huge money Deutsche Telekom draws from Croatia in such a way that our general good where no ownership relations are solved, and examples of local self-government keep the road one who is unclassified and of course the HT's obligation to pay. Now, that has changed to please after the meeting of Tomaskovic with Prime Minister Plenkovic. It's just gone. After you rejected HT, there was a meeting with the HT Director's Government with the prime minister and then you reject it. And you told HT in response, you as proposing, the Ministry of Transport that it was an unfounded proposal. Please, for the sake of local self-government, for regional self-government, for drawing money and all that Deutsche Telekom has done through politicians who have sat in this House boredom, please protect the public good, so that money does not leak through our fingers to foreign investors. I demand a vote and expect parliamentary representatives, mainly from mayors, mayors, representatives of regional self-government, county councilors who are also parliamentary representatives, to support this in the interest of their local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44701	I am voting on amendments that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move to Amendment number three, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44702	The amendment is not accepted. This Annex shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Communications proposes to further define the concept of a general manager and the owner of a property cannot accept it for the reason that the concept of general goods and public goods in the general use of public goods is already systematically governed by the Law on Property and other real rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44703	Who's going? He's a friend of yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44704	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians, the esteemed secretary of state. Therefore, there is no legal obstacle to this amendment being introduced into the final draft of the law. The general good is not owned, the general good does not enter the ownership regime. So this amendment is in line with all the laws, with the Law of Property, with the Law of Land Books. It is also in line with the Law on the editoring of property-legal relations for the purpose of building infrastructure buildings. Therefore, it is impossible to charge this fee for those undertakings which are predominantly state-owned. The case-law also shows that there is not a single ruling by the High Administrative Court to prove what you have claimed. The only reason you refuse this amendment is because of the benefit of the Croatian Telecom company at the expense of the units of local self-government, regional self-government and the Republic of Croatia. So, this bill, these amendments and additions will actually result in a local self-government, regional and Republic of Croatia of millions of kunas from the budget. And I'm sorry, and I'd like to be wrong about what some of the colleagues on this side are, are mayors, some of them coming from some of the local self-government units, and they're going to have very nice funds that could have been made by schools, kindergartens, municipal infrastructures, help civil society or scholarship students and students. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44705	Please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes, so let's now go to Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44706	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official The Law on Electronic Communications proposes to regulate the payment of the right of way compensation in the event of the owner of the property unknown. It shall not be accepted for the reason that the treatment of property for which it is not possible to determine the owner is already regulated by the implementing regulation laying down the way in which the compensation for the right of way is paid in accordance with the applicable provision of Article 29. Law on electronic communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44707	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44708	I don't agree with the explanation. It is again meant to favour Croatia's telecom through the rejection of this amendment. I think you and the department of expertise at the Department of Transport are professional and honorable people. As you refused to comment on Croatian Telecom during your e-consultation, you also told me here during the debate that Croatia will build its aggregate optical network. However, just as you refused the proposal in the meantime, that is, the HT request came to this meeting, which was discussed by counterpart Bulj. And this concept of the property manager has been thrown out, which will damage the units of local self-government. In the end, the budgets of our cities and municipalities and without that money will remain our citizens, and that money will end up in Deutsche Telekom, which is the biggest profit and bonus of Davor Tomašković. This government decided to favour Croatian telecoms, namely Deutsche Telekom and Administration Bonuses, not Croatian citizens. I hope that again that attitude that you have expressed about the construction of a aggregate optical network that is a professional and fair attitude will not be changed because of the influence of Croatian Telekom on Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44709	I am also voting on this amendment which the Government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment 5 of MPs Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44710	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of The Law on Electronic Communications proposes an additional concept of a real estate manager with the existing terms of a general good manager and a real estate owner cannot be accepted for the same reasons for which no amendment to Article 14 of the final proposal of the law has been adopted. Therefore, a legal or natural person who does not own the property cannot be entitled to the right of travel compensation on that property. In the light of the general rules on ownership and other real rights, and the applicable administrative and judicial practice in accordance with which the obligation of an infrastructure operator to pay the right of way compensation exists exclusively to the owner of the property on which he made the electronic communications infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44711	I'd like to ask you to show me a colleague of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44712	The fact that this amendment also says that it is necessary, that this is the fourth or fifth or even more amendments to the law and the addition of electronic communications, and that so far all the legal regulations and even these amendments are now appropriate to foreign bodies, especially when we talk about base stations where both spatial and health services are unsettled. People are not protected because of the conditions in which the base stations are placed and because of the radiation and evidence of the World Health Federation that they are harmful. I can only do that in Croatia. As far as guessing is concerned, the benefits of setting up the base stations are necessary, no document, no consent of local self-government or neighbors are needed. Also, the code of the Croatian Telecom is the fact that it does whatever it wants, so, gentlemen dear, I said it in the debate. If we don't accept this amendment, they usurp our public well-being, and they don't pay kunas to local self-government, regional self-government, or even owners who don't have a proper ownership relationship. I'll give you an example, Mr. Secretary, you know, I'm sorry he's not a minister here because he should be coming around on these important things here. In Sinj, at the Alcaric racetrack, where the centuries-old trees, the centuries-old wooded trees, they hung their cables under those maroons. Now that you've come to Alka, pay good attention to that. Without any permission, no one's consent and no one's allowed to do anything to them. It's a disaster. Please support this amendment, that we do not use our good against the interests of local self-government and all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44713	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's move on to Amendment 6. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44714	The amendment is accepted. It's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44715	Well, you don't have to explain it and it becomes an integral part of the law. Those are the amendments we voted on. There is another amendment by MP Mira Bulja to the new article 16 but it has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry. So we're going to vote. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. Please, let's vote. I find that with most votes 79 for, 44 against, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications was passed, with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44716	We will now move on to the following law, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 163. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, and their reports were received at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Mile Horvat State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44717	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I will, therefore, try to explain the intensity of these amendments and the addition of the Sustainable Waste Management Act in front of the promoter in front of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The law on sustainable waste management published in the National No. Since 2013, 94 has entered into force on 23 July 2013 and has been harmonised in one part with the provisions of Directive 98 after 2008, which regulates the Waste Act. I note that so far there has been no amendment and addition of this law but what is important here is that the ministry has taken action and is moving towards the process of adopting a new and comprehensive text of the Waste Management Act, where the general policy of waste management will mainly be defined in accordance with European directives and where the policy of managing waste will be defined in the coming period. Three basic reasons have been introduced for amending and supplementing the Sustainable Waste Management Act. The first is the infringement of EU law and this Directive No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second reason is the establishment of a legal framework for the application of the Commission Regulation. 1357 of 2014 on hazardous waste properties. And the third reason why the ministry proposes these amendments and amendments to the law is to ensure continuity of the management of specific categories of waste in the Republic of Croatia in order to meet the goals that the Republic of Croatia has under binding EU legislation. So the first reason, we go in line, try to explain a little bit the reasons for these changes, infringements of EU law No. Directive No 28/06/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1906/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2009, p. 1). 0637 of 2016 and 2160 of these infringement proceedings were preceded by pilot number 6981/14 of 15 June 2014. So a warning that we have not implemented the national legislation of a binding EU directive. Regarding injury No. 0637 of 2016 is a key fact that no EU Commission Directive has been transposed. 1127 of 10 July 2015 concerning the amendment of Annex 2 to Directive 98/2008 on waste. The draft law complements Appendix 2 to the procedures concerning the recovery of waste in the section relating to the R1 procedure, i.e. the use of waste mainly as fuel or other means of obtaining energy in terms of the addition to the climate and correction factor to be taken into account in the calculation of the energy efficiency of the waste burning plant. This is regulated, these amendments are regulated in Articles 22 and 21 of the Amending and Supplements. The second infringement of Directive 2160 of 2015 states that they are not correctly transposed into the national system of the provisions of Directive 98/2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law complements the amended individual articles relating primarily to the separation, collection and storage of waste whose valuable properties can be used, the characteristics which make waste dangerous, the definition of waste concepts, the content of the waste prevention plan, the mixing procedures of certain types of waste, environmental permits and certain conditions for methods, for certain waste management procedures in relation to their environmental impact and energy recovery of plant waste. It's regulated by Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, 7, 8, 16, 17, 18 and 21 to be exact. Furthermore, in the period since the adoption of the Sustainable Waste Management Act, Commission Regulation No 1357 of 2014 laying down the properties of waste that make it dangerous. This proposal amends and complements the Law lays down a legal framework for the implementation of this Regulation, i.e. its direct application which we have not had so far. This is about Articles 1, 3, 5 and 24. And the third reason why the applicant, i.e. the ministry, pursues these amendments and additions is to ensure the continuity of management of specific categories of waste in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the collection and processing system of specific categories of waste managed by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund ceases to be subject to existing contracts concluded with waste oil collectors and processors, for vehicles, for batteries, batteries, electric and electronic wastes concluded under the previous Waste Act, which ceased to apply to the adoption of the current current Act on Sustainable Waste Management. I have to mention here for clear information, these contracts expire in 7.8 months, depending on which category. Therefore, the procedures for selecting new collectors and granting processing powers under the Sustainable Waste Management Act are not completed as soon as the conclusion of new contracts in accordance with the current current Act on Waste Management is disabled. I will also say here that the process of selecting new collectors and obtaining processing powers according to the law, in some way our experience takes at least 12 months. Therefore, the adoption of regulations and regulations that need to be prepared, the implementation of the tender procedure itself and the leaving of space for a possible appeal period, approximately the experience, the expert says that such procedures would last at least 12 months. It is therefore necessary to highlight the fact that the basis of EU legislation in the field of waste management, the objectives of collecting and using or recycling certain specific categories of waste that the Republic of Croatia has achieved and fulfilled in the past period must not be jeopardised and therefore, this proposal provides for the continuity of the management of specific categories of waste in such a way that contracts are in force until new contracts are concluded under the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste, which will end in accordance with the Ministry's policy as soon as possible. From the rest of the amendments, I would like to amend Articles 12, 13 and 20 where the articles relating to the amendment of the State Inspectorate to the market inspection are generally amended. The second thing, an article was added to determine that the current Maritime Code applies to the collection and surrender and acceptance of waste from ships. And the third thing, the third change, was amended in Article 25(2). The waste management law, the time-limit for the ban on the disposal of waste in uncoordinated landfills in such a way as to determine the requirements that must be met and linked to the requirements laid down in the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, where the agreed transitional periods are. For the other EU members, the deadlines for synchronising the landfill were defined before the Republic of Croatia joined the EU, and therefore the deadlines for the Republic of Croatia are different from those for the Directive and are subject to the current Directive by 31.12.2008 with specific exceptions. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The waste management law provides for a ban on the disposal of waste to uncoordinated landfills in the Republic of Croatia after 31.12.2017, which is extremely unfavourable for the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the waste disposal sites must comply with the landfill Directive, i.e. the Regulation on the methods and conditions of disposal of waste, categories and conditions of work for waste disposals published in the National Journal 114/2015, which is in conformity with the Directive, which means they must be harmonised, equipped in terms of the equipment of waste reception, control, authorisation, types of waste that are delayed and similar to 31.12.2018. It is important to say, those dumps which do not meet the prescribed conditions within that time limit, will be considered as non-compliant, and must be removed and closed no later than one year from the day of release of waste management centres for the county area in which they are located, as laid down in Article 10. And the conclusion, therefore, by adopting these amendments and by supplementing the Waste Management Act, is ensured in our view, the correct transposition of the provisions of Directive 98/2008 of the European Community on European Waste Act, into national legislation, thus fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to infringements of EU law and removing the possibility of giving EU sanctions to the Republic of Croatia for failure to comply with EU documents. The legal framework for the implementation of Commission Regulation No. 1357/2014 on hazardous waste properties, and ensuring continuity of management of specific categories of waste in the Republic of Croatia and meeting the objectives under EU legislation. It is necessary here to say that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget and we believe that an emergency procedure is necessary precisely because of these deadlines set out in Article 1 and Article 25 of the amendment and addition of this law. I will just briefly refer here to yesterday's session of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection where it has been held with a very serious debate and an amendment has been proposed where Article 25 is adopted but the sentence is added "the longest 12 months since the date of entry into force of this law". We absolutely respect the reasons why the parent board should be limited for the duration of the existing contracts, and we think that it should be tied by date, or deadline, but we warn that this formulation and this will be our opinion towards the Government, that this formulation is read in a way that within 12 months procedures for the conclusion of contracts and gathering and conclusion of the Agreement on Processing. Why? Because at the outset, I said that practice says that if we were to go to a new competition, we would need all those legal deadlines in order for these contracts to be realised for at least 12 months. Thank you again and we would like to ask you to respect these reasons of urgency for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44718	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44719	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Sustainable Waste Management Act with the final draft law, as you said, is mainly a alignment with various EU directives. However, we have one problem here in our society that often some things are harmonised on paper with directives, and in practice it is very difficult to implement. I've noticed here, I've actually warned before one thing that's quite controversial and you'll have to work hard, and a little bit to let the public know what it's all about. In this respect, Article 25 refers to the maximum permitted weight of waste to be delayed annually at all non-coordinated landfills in the Republic of Croatia. And the problem is that we haven't succeeded in the last five years that we've committed ourselves to doing this to reduce the tonage, or the amount of waste in uncoordinated landfills. In fact, according to the law last year, only a million tonnes of waste should have been deposited to harmonised landfills, and a million and 872000 tonnes were delayed, almost twice as much. So that's one problem that needs to be dealt with urgently. And my proposal is that what is also regulated by law, which is that the Environmental Protection Inspectorate here is acting as rigorously as possible, i.e. to force itself in the finality and local self-government that is in charge of this problem, so that this amount is delayed to uncoordinated landfills. Otherwise, just so you know the amount that was at the time of the signing means our first commitment to the EU was one million and 963,000 tonnes. And today it's only just fallen, so 100 thousand tons, or a million and 872,000 tons. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44720	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44721	Thank you. My colleague Zekanovic, I'll just answer briefly. Probably this whole problem requires a broader design, so we are quite clear that we have transferred the quantities of delays for the reason we have too little separate selected waste. So when we create conjecture and create such a general social culture that we need to select waste, then we're going to solve this problem of exceeding the allowed quotas for waste. Otherwise, in order to do so, we need tools, and we need certain regulations. We have a regulation on municipal waste, but now we're in the making of other regulations, and that's a waste disposal regulation. And we expect that within a very short time after this break of summer, we will bring in those legal deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44722	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mladen Majera.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44723	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Secretary of State, and her associate, welcome. You're probably aware that we're late with all these unfortunately decisions, so let me warn you that Italy has paid 40 million euros in fines for disobeying these laws. Who will pay the fine in Croatia? At a meeting, the ministry was told it would be deployed to local self-government units. Will local self-government units still have to pay the fine for the state apparatus's slowness? However, there is one Article 36, which is not covered here, paragraph 3., which reads: ‘For the purposes of implementing the measure referred to in point 2 of this Article, the municipal director shall order the owner, or the owner of the property if the owner is not known where the waste is unlicensed, the disposal of that waste, or the person who manages the specific regulation in accordance with a specific area if the waste is delayed in that area. It means Article 36(3), which requires the municipal director to order the owner, i.e. the property owner, to postpone the waste. If you don't know who put the waste down, the property owner will pay the fine. So we practically call on them not to postpone to state land and the state to pay a fine that will be fined by a municipal director in local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44724	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44725	Thank you. The first question, therefore the answer to the first question, is, in any case, the Republic of Croatia is responsible for paying the fines. Probably, if we get to that situation, the state budget will be the bearer of that sentence. The second thing, so what you said was article 36a. Absolutely not the subject of these amendments and additions to the law. We could now open a debate on the whole concept of the law on the subject. So I wouldn't be spreading the subject now in a way that we can talk and answer questions beyond these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44726	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You started out in this new business with a very sensitive subject that will follow you throughout the course, so I think that in waste management we are basically doing it quite wrong all the time and that we went wrong and that it will have a lot of serious consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, in the end, we have to pay for all of this. This system of management is so bureaucratized, it's so much too far-fetched that simply in utility companies dealing with the collection and collection of waste and its storage or recovery, only new people need to be hired today to keep records, which will basically do analysis and to write a report. We had in Croatia and we have in Croatia several cities that have well solved the waste management programme, which have solved and recovered their dumps and prepared them, which have built recycling yards, which therefore recycle waste. Unfortunately, when it was moving into some sort of final plan management, it wasn't exactly taken into account and it would all fall into the water until it opened up like these regional centres. They're here now. This is needless to say, but in the end it will all be gathered to Croatian citizens because it will certainly cost a lot more than it costs now, while this was being resolved and prepared closer to the place of residence. You mentioned the Environmental Protection Fund and its role, and that's why I volunteered for the replica. I, unfortunately, am convinced that the Fund in the coming time, which is a time of several years, because of those dubiosiss it has, in its financing, which they made during the government of Zoran Milanovic and Minister Zmajlovic, will not be able to participate very much in this part, so there will be some new funding and I fear these time limits that are set for us not to give ourselves too short deadlines again and that we fail to resolve what we have set.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44728	Thank you very much. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44729	I would like to thank the esteemed colleague of the Hrg, or representative of the Croatian Parliament. So again, we could talk about the problem of waste management at local level, local level, definitely, our opinion is that the development of the waste management system is costing. Whether it will burden additional household budgets, whether it will affect it, will in any case affect the negative social picture of people, especially in the peripheral border areas, but it is a deadline, therefore, it is a fact that we must build as a society and we must be ready for certain standards from waste management to cost. As for the Fund, we as a ministry, so, for some time we haven't been there for a long, back month, two days now, we're trying to enter into the business structure of the Environment Fund, into the human resources structure, and this problem that you've been talking about, and it would be very inconclusive now if it gave you some concrete response regarding the financial situation of the Fund and the perspective of the Fund, but in any case, we're going to get into this whole problem, so the minister is going into this problem now in a few days. And then we're going to have a balance sheet on the Fund and don't mind if I can't give you a concrete answer to this right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44730	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44731	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, that sustainable development, conservation of nature and the environment, disposal of waste, recycling yards, composting, all ok. However, when the state itself, i.e. We here in Parliament only get EU directives, and at the same time, the same state allows the concreteisation of Plitvice National Park, where Croatian defenders, twice, save our sustainable development and our national park. Those who strangled the lives of 91' and remember what he did 91' and the aggressor killed both our first director and today his comrades, the defenses of our Joseph Jovic, our national park. What you have done regarding the protection of Croatian symbols recognised by all institutions. It is known around the world that in the world, it is a national park Plitvice, which you have taken to protect yourself from the system of concreteization, construction, uncontrollable of our symbol, because Croatian defenders, already there, have been standing there for almost a month in the tent. For the second time, they must defend against the occupiers, so Plitvice, and 91's have succeeded against the Chetniks, I hope this time they will try to save them. Also, when we talk about state development and the sea is also a part of the territory, by foreign ships, because of the undeclared exclusive belt, washing their tanks. At sea we have a stain the size of the city of Split, so what are you doing about it? And mainly because of Croatian defenders, who defend Plitvice Lakes, what are you doing and what steps are you taking to stop the concreteisation of that area, the symbols of Croatia, the National Park of Plitvice?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44732	Comrade Bulj, you've noticed, I haven't interrupted you even though everything you've said has absolutely nothing to do with this point, whether I agree with you or not, but we can't do that. We can't work like that to talk under a replica company about topics that don't concern what's the point now, which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please. ... Who hurt the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You, but now you say yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44733	In 238, all the items, everyone, you hurt everything because I spoke about sustainable development, waste management, the EU directive, and the system itself allowed our environment to be destroyed in Plitvice National Park, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44734	.../Intruder Rainer: Comrade Bulj, you abuse now again the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44735	You don't see here, you don't see Mr. President from the tree of the forest. of a list, because the symbol is being threatened and you should give support as leader now at this point to the Assembly MPs, to talk to the responsible person about the key topic and down defenders... For the second time, the swimming lakes... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44736	.../Intruder Rainer: Comrade Bulj, do not do this, you are now in violation of the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44737	The system you created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44738	And abuse the Rules of Procedure, no matter what I tell you, whether I agree with you personally or not, but this has nothing to do with this point. And you've been knowingly breaking the Rules of Procedure twice. So don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44739	.... /Intruder Bulj: Consciously you are violating the Rules of Procedure whether you are obviously struck by the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44740	Comrade Bulj, you can't talk to me like that first, and second... I can and must because I respect the Rules of Procedure, and you're breaking it knowingly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then read to yourself finally the Rules of Procedure and teach him that you've been a representative here for so long, please. Read the Rules of Procedure and you will be aware of what you are breaking it. A fellow Thunderbolt in what was the Rules of Procedure broken, and who did?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44741	Chairman, you are in violation of Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44742	... /Intruder Reiner: What specifically?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44743	...you won't let the counsel speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44744	I let the counsel talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44745	Yeah, and then now you're giving a replica to his exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44746	I don't have a replica. I'm warning him about it, please don't make a show out of it now. You both know you're doing bad things. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Yes, of course, because you have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44747	How come I don't have a right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44748	Because you have no right because you have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44749	So can I say so you'll say if that injury exists or not? Will you let me say something?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44750	Tell me what article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44751	Often, MPs drift away from the topic but here, my colleague Bulj held on to the subject of waste management, environmental protection and did not so far deviate from the topic that you would intervene in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44752	I let him speak to the end even though I was aware from the first word that he was speaking completely past the subject and let him speak to the end, but then at least I expected correctness from you. Comrade Bulj, please. ... Please don't discuss this with me because I'm giving you a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we will go on to the next line that the distinguished representative Ivan Kirin appeared on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44753	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Everything that the human race has created and will create theoretically is a waste or will be a waste, that's clear. There are two types of waste, it's municipal and industrial waste. Among industrial waste is particularly interesting radioactive waste that is full of active isotopics and is finally a product of fuel in nuclear power plants. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State how he feels about the idea of storing that radioactive waste in the Trade Mountain? And secondly, there's a classic way of dealing with the waste that we've been taught about, these are dumps, they're also not organized dumps or waste dumps, they're garbage dumps, but there's something that came up at the end of the 19th century and early 20th century because of the lack of space to store waste, they're waste burning plants. Germany, England, and in Croatia it first appeared at the beginning of the 20th century in Rijeka. There's no Mayor Bakar here, there used to be cokers, there was all the infrastructure ready to launch the waste plant we talked about, but there was just a destruction. That chimney and everything that was prepared the infrastructure as a consequence of the coke was destroyed. And what the secretary of state thinks about this way of waste management because we know and we all heard and saw in Vienna a waste burning plant that does not pollute Vienna and the city with certain filters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44754	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44755	Thank you. The firehouse, the waste management plan doesn't predict for this period. So we know what the Waste Management Plan predicts, separate collection, management and disposal centres within the prescribed deadlines, and that's what we can talk about today, about radioactive waste. So our ministry isn't in charge of radioactive waste, that's what the National Nuclear Security Office is responsible for, and they'd be good to talk about these things that you just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44756	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will speak to the distinguished representative Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44757	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable representatives of the ministry. So we heard three basic reasons from the promoter why it is going into an urgent amendment to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. It was discussed yesterday on the Committee on Environmental Protection. So, in the first row, it is about violating EU law, so because they are weak or not transposed certain provisions. There is also a problem of poor transposition, so Annex 2 to the Directive in national legislation. There are several things, among other things, regarding provisions that define dangerous waste properties issues. And the third thing the Proposer has told us is the question of continuity in the management of special categories. We, therefore, exist and yesterday a single amendment was agreed, today we heard that this would be included in one modified version. I don't think it's some particular problem to accept, so in principle I can say that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists we will be inclined to accept this Law on Sustainable Waste Management, that is, these urgent changes. However, repairing legal solutions will certainly not change matters in terms of waste management in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we are all witnesses if we look a little bit at that since Croatia is actually a waste management business. Besides, the '95 Law. In the year, the Waste Act prescribed a hierarchy worth waste properties, it was the concept of... waste avoidance, valuation and then disposal. And then the laws changed, but practice or implementation on the ground is not God knows what it got. And that is why we are talking today about a number of problems, we have heard what was transferred from the access contract, so the obligation to reduce waste that is being delayed in these circumstances, so we are definitely too much of the waste being put off, too little of the collection and recycling, which is what we can see from the beginning of the EU countries, was a waste as a special category that has been particularly apostropheeded in the accession contract as well as in the waste disposal directive very little. The waste avoidance system as a new concept for us is very poorly used, i.e. it is at the very beginning. Troubleous waste and hazardous waste that should be collected in recycling courtyards has also become too weak to live. In addition, what is certainly clear is that there is a very weak coordination between the state, regional level and local self-government, so we can see this by many examples where conflict and disagreement exist, therefore, over the implementation and that is, waste management policies in certain areas. But there's definitely a lot to do to change. As a minister, I tried to change policy, a waste management plan was adopted in January of this year, where a change was laid in terms of, therefore, not transition from disposal to mechanical biological processing dominantly but transition to a sustainable society, therefore in a society that will seek to maximum recycling, re-use, so to re-use without the need to deal with mixed waste or garbage. But what, there in that plan is a lot of things, there's a avoidance plan, it's now mentioned and in this law, it's all right. However, I must say that I am a little concerned about the statement by the Minister, the new protection of the environment and energy that he said was in fact an imperative for strengthening financing or withdrawing money from European projects and building a waste management centre. Thus, in view of all the circumstances, such a statement indicates that there is likely to be another problem of misunderstanding. I will remind you all that the practice, or policy in which everything is solved by building a waste management centre, is not good. Here, go to two of our now built centers of Mariščina and Kastijun, see what it is, so these are the centers in which a lot of money has been spent, so over 30 million euros, so only European money, that is, their price at many of the additional costs that exist there. However, these are objects that cannot meet the objectives, so they do not achieve the goals set before Croatia in terms of recycling. And so we simply need to change that paradigm, so building a centre, has to establish a system of recycling courtyards that will allow this mixed waste to be more important quality or less problematic. That's why we prepared a public call, so even in January, so it's open. I believe that units of local self-government will make the most of the money available to establish a network of recycling yards. There are also recycling centres that are necessary, so these are varieties without which there is no quality waste management. So in the government of Zoran Milanovic, there was a practice that those cities that came to need it and asked for funding that they were rejected, which is why reason to build a waste management centre. So I'm asking you all to understand, so the paper and plastics that the citizens separate we have to drive to the sortery in the nearby recycling, whether the yard, whether the recycling center, the small, close one, which contains a sortery and everything that is thought about and driven into a waste management centre that is less important, creates a negative value, there it is paid. So it is a way to first meet the goals set before Croatia, which we have signed, and another to make the system cheaper for citizens. Of course, there is a need for participation of citizens, but I keep saying that we underestimate citizens and their willingness to participate in even voluntary participation, so the participation of separate collection schemes. And therefore, I would very much like the minister to accept the need for European new ones to be spent to a maximum extent and for recycling centres with sorting centres and composts because recycling yards and education programmes and reuse centres can all be reformed in a year or perhaps a little more important to the current waste management system. So in Croatia, which is definitely not good and should be changed. So, if we only change it in a way that we let everything else go spontaneously, I'm talking about the state level, and we're going to define for big centres that we're going to spend most of the EU money on, then it's not going to be good. So, I'm responsible for saying from this place. So I appeal that these efforts that could not be heard in the minister's statement are nevertheless revealed and set up, so it's not someone's platform, so it's not the patent right of the Most or myself as a minister, it's the obligation today, the responsibility of the responsible minister in the EU member state, without it having no responsibility for waste management. So I'm definitely going to end up with this that time of justification that someone didn't know it could be one way or another, but here's what happened is that we chose only this one option, so that time of such cheap justifications has passed, so now we can definitely always talk about significantly harder categories. So, more excuses. Here, I would like to conclude, as may be the specific category of waste, it should definitely be thoroughly revised because especially in certain categories of glass, I have found that our system of return fees stagnates, or stands at only 50% of the efficiency, and I think there are solutions, we are on this one solution to preparation, working, to change it. So anything that is not needed, which is not good, is not effective enough, should be changed, so that is, of course, part of the responsible policy. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44758	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Col. Dobrovic, you said about waste management, waste separation, what should be taught people from kindergartens, our children, that this is what we strive to do, that we learn to separate waste in our homes, and that it works. However, the fact is that all of these European directives, all the sanctions that they give us, are essentially not very much affecting the system, not only in the case of waste management, and you are an expert in sustainable development for nature conservation, you are dealing with it, that is, your life, we all love nature, we love our Croatia, as you are commenting on, since we have just now chaired in essence, I said that I am beyond the theme of sustainable development, the preservation of our nature, the management of waste, what the restful ministry is doing, how you interpret this concreteisation and impact with everything we have to respect for the directives and the system enables the destruction of our nature, the greatest wealth that is very difficult to defend in '91. of the same people who are now guarding Plitvice National Park, who must not forget, 30 days, colleagues, gentlemen representatives, are already tents and defending the national park. You were obvious among the first, i.e. first in this House, in which way you comment that the system of Croatia allows i.e. local self-government, targets in the construction areas of national parks? The tankers are being washed at sea. How to explain, you take our secretary. Because we know that we defended ourselves in '91, that Josip Fiolić was the first victim of the Homeland War, right in Plitvice National Park. And now these same people are defending you from who again? It means we're worse than the aggressors in the '90s. Our system has allowed the concreteization and destruction of nature, meaning not only to copy directives but to protect sustainable development and our natural resources through the system, so please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44760	Thank you very much. You have, of course, repeated why you received a warning, this one although I have allowed you to say it, but you yourself are aware that it is wrong and that it is not the subject of it. You tried to provoke a colleague, so tell me what he was hurt in, who hurt the Rules of Procedure except you, and what he's hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44761	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of All Points. Well, you're every time Mr. Chairman, when you mention Plitvice, when you mention sustainable development here, when you mention disrespect for nature conservation systems, whether or not it's waste. You catch yourself as a drunk float, interpret what someone wanted to say or someone wanted to ask a secretary or former minister, you have no right to do so. [[Intruder Reiner: It's not about waste.]] I'm going to mention Plitvice as a parliamentary representative, I'm going to ask the Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy of the former Minister that's my right, it's right because of those people who are standing down in the tent right now. I didn't hurt a single article. [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Bulj, first...]] You're hurting the article. You give yourself a warning. I don't know why you're so frustrated by the mention of Plitvice National Park. What's so frustrating about you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44762	I'm not frustrated with anything other than you knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you not to. I'm asking you not to, because it's not a subject. And you know it's not a topic, and I mean it doesn't make sense. We're talking about waste management. You're talking about something else, something else that's important, that the two of us even agree on. But it's not a topic right now. You know that. Don't do that, please. Of course he wasn't hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Dobrović. Here you go. Here's a colleague of the Grmoy in which the Rules of Procedure and what point were injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44763	Article 236 means you are constantly in need of the presentation of your colleagues to interpret whether he is off topic or not. Now, if you follow me a little bit, I'll look seriously now in the way you're holding the session and I'll see if you can see all the other MPs in that way whether they're a little bit or not away from the topic. Col. Bulj was, then, talking about sustainable waste management, environmental conservation, and that's part of this topic as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44764	It's not part of this topic. You know I'm very broad in interpretation, so about what, who's sticking to the subject, who's not. But if we don't stick to the subject at all, then I have to intervene. Therefore, don't abuse yourself, please, injure the Rules of Procedure. It's a good-looking show. It's beautiful. You'll probably get it that way, but don't. Please don't!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44765	What do you mean the show when you mention Plitvice you're saying it's a show?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44766	Comrade Bulj, please calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44767	Feel free to give me a warning, throw me out for Plitvice. I didn't hurt a single article. You took the right to interpret behind every exhibit I have, to interpret what I wanted to say in the law. You have no right to do that!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44768	Comrade Bulj, read the Rules of Procedure. You can't answer what I'm saying. I'm not going to throw you out, I'm going to give you a warning, a second warning with a speech ban. Now we'll move on to a colleague of Dobrovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44769	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bulj, precisely sustainable development covers all these topics. So waste management has very much room to change the degree of sustainability of today’s society. And that's why it's going hard to strengthen separate collection and recycling. Prior to that, the reuse of all that can be reused. And these are the most valuable forms of recycling. And it lifts, it can raise the degree of sustainability of our society. We must still be selfless of generations to come, to our children, to their children. Therefore, a change in behavior is necessary. The technology used to burn what we don't need is not good, because burning destroys matter even when the energy that can be obtained is used. We need to know that the amount of energy in burning and the most valuable waste, so the plastic we get is incomparably lower than the energy we can get by recycling that same plastic. So these are the facts, these are the facts why there's a hierarchy of waste management and why it's all built into laws. I've been saying since 20 years and over. And the only thing that needs to be changed is behavior. So, desire, desire to act on it. So the law of '95. made it possible. Therefore, some units of local self-government have also reached over 50% of separate collection, and some have not moved out of place. Now it's got to be state policy, we all have to blow in the same direction, and I think we can get somewhere. The problem of devastation, concreteisation is also an important segment of sustainable development and we must take care of it at least not specifically under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44770	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Dobrovic, in your debate mentioned just in '95. and I'll tell the Istrian County that back in '95. started working on a strategy in which to take care of the waste. You also mentioned the law adopted in 2013. And you mentioned the waste management program that you brought as minister in January this year. And now they call the local self-government units not to do anything, to do nothing about waste management, and we see how the state works. And the fact is that they change ministries, change ministers, and each minister comes up with a new idea and imposes some new regulations and laws. That's what you said when you came here that MBO, and you repeated it today, is not worth it. The mechanical-biological treatment of whether Kaštijun and Marinščina were built under the waste management programme of the Republic of Croatia and under the laws of the Republic of Croatia and whether the funds approved by the European Commission through the IPA programme from 2008 to 2010. And is this now the programme and the care that I claim to meet all four objectives that we have taken over from the European directive, all four objectives of reducing deposit and recycling and re-recovering useful waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44772	Here's a response from the esteemed representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44773	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the replica. So let me get this straight. MBO is a mechanical-biological process that goes with a goal, which occurs with the aim of reducing damage to the environment and making use of some valuable properties possible. So we can make a minimum condition for the delay in harmonised landfills, that's correct. However, we cannot achieve the recycling condition that we have, which is 50% by 2020. We simply can't, because you need to know that the paper and plastics that are driven into the NB drive, one or the other that you have listed, is not worth, or is not good enough, to be taken over by the paper industry, or by the plastic industry. So it can go into RDF fuel, however, it's not recycling, it's possibly an energy opposition, so from waste, but it's a far lower level of validity than what we can achieve. I repeat, when plastic, you burn, you get from, say... 45 megabes per kilogram gross, when you bring it down to a net value in burning conditions, it's lower, when you're converging in electrical energy, which is the most valuable energy, then you can get 10.15% out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Warm energy, that's what would raise it, but I wonder who we'll be heating up in Istria for 10 months and whether it's worth running, building a central heat heating system. So, one with the other, the third indicates that it is most valuable to separate that plastic and paper on sorters that will be in cities, in Istria and then return to industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44774	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44775	Thank you, Vice President and Honorable colleague Dobrović, and you yourself have said that we are in line with European directives with these laws and amendments to the law. It is my question to you, why did it take the Republic of Croatia four years to comply with the European directives, to avoid payment of the penalty to the EU, and why does every minister who comes have to change the law, strategy and waste management plan, because it cannot achieve consensus? We should have already been a step forward, as a colleague already mentioned, Italy has paid around 40m euros in fines, similar threats to the Republic of Croatia. The secretary of state said he would pay the state budget, not pay the citizens, the taxpayers. On the other hand, we have a chance through the 2014 operational programme, 2020, from around 475m euros for this area to invest in the Republic of Croatia, and we are holding that chance with constant amendments to the law. Because, with the amendment of this law, we have at least 30 more regulations to change and bring in so that we can actually implement it. Well, here's what you've done as a minister not to change the law every year, to establish ourselves with European directives, and to avoid paying for a penalty, or to create preconditions for withdrawing European money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44776	The answer of the distinguished representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44777	Thank you very much. So, why did we get into a position that we might have to pay for the pens, you have to ask all those who have been responsible for the resor since 2002. 2003, then this way. What I have done is move, therefore, to finance recycling yards that went into preparation, to define recycling centres with sorting centres that are the same in preparation and that can go very quickly into financing from these same European money. Same with composts, same with reuse centers. So these are the content that raises the quality of the waste management system, which enables citizens to participate in decommissioning waste and that will result in this paper and that plastic, which together makes up almost 45% of the material, ends up in industry or economy. Plastics can in a small economy, in small entrepreneurship, therefore, our plasticists import a large amount of recycling and then close the circle by recycling therefore, from waste to a new product so that it drives this material from Austria and Germany, and we ourselves drive that material to the MBO where it conventions in the RDF. So, these centers here, we've gone through them, and they need to take maybe a third of the mechanical biological processing capacity. So we must not allow more than half the waste in the Republic of Croatia, the municipal to end up in those centers. Then the result won't be good. So everything else has to go through the solitary, creating a new value, so there are hidden values in the paper. This paper right here is worth over 100 euros a ton. Of course, provided he wasn't in touch with the waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44778	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, you said that repairing the legal solutions would certainly not do much for better waste management. And that's where I agree with you. Because when we pass laws here, when other regulations and rules are passed along with these laws, then at the local level that needs to be implemented in principle, they rip out their hair because they can't implement it. And then, as already here in previous debates and replicas, there are sudden changes and nights of waste management. That's who turns the body upside down in some sport and cracks the spine. That's how it is with regional centres or regional centres, I don't know if the dumps or the centres are or I'm not sure what they are or what they should be anymore. All I know is that it's all going on together, all I know is that it's been very much discussed, and I know that there's a huge amount of money in it, and it's changing year after year, and it's all standing together. At the same time, local self-governments, which have signed contracts with these regional centres, must close their dumps by a certain deadline, postpone their deposit, or likely pay fines, and not guilty. Now, this claim of yours about local self-government units, the local dumps were basically in the original idea of these regional centers. It's not clear to me where she went missing in the meantime because she was so planned to be a local sorter, that there would be a variety of waste and then such sorted waste and that would finally drive to a regional dump where he would take care of himself in a way that would already be. So I ask you to really explain it to us a little bit more, you were a minister because in public we have two conflicting thoughts, those who run programmes of regional dumps or centres and you as a minister who was somehow a minister who attacked the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44780	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44781	Thank you very much. So the change we've made has to be made for all of these beliefs and reasons that exist and that we can make a broader discussion, a workshop and explain. But here in short, so the sortery can't be more than 20, 25km away because the truck that picks up paper or plastics in its 10, 12 tons of load capacity won't have a ton of material, because it doesn't take transportation far. Besides, it's a local value, and as far as I know, the problem of putting such content into the centers was because of so-called. ...or as it's already said in Croatian because it's about this... creating some profit and it has to be separated. This means that the waste management centre of the type Pishkornica definitely generates the cost and will always be so. And that's why all the pursuits of all the activities, to reduce the capacity of Piškornica, and to initiate sorting lines across Zagorje and all these counties are benefiting citizens. I would like politicians in Croatia to understand that. So it's not my fight against these centers that I don't know what it's about but that it's not how I can achieve the goals that we've set in law and access contract, one, and of course this time it's very good with the interest of the citizens. So in the sortery of paper and plastics that go out of value, something a little invaluable then it's to be taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44782	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44783	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Dobrović. In your competences, we won't, and we don't need to doubt it, you understand the problem. You mention recycling courtyards, waste sorting and natural centers of regional and county waste management. You mentioned Marišina, which is not one big dump, one big center, but which is slightly due to the structure of the soil damages the environment. I'm interested in the other, given that it's getting more and more, given... somewhere around two thousand dumps and waste dumps, it's now being reduced to a much smaller number. Have you considered other than to take advantage of a part of the waste that can be used as raw materials to burn garbage in the combustion plants as in the energanes when you were a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44784	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44785	Thank you very much. So we did not in this plan in January predict the construction of the burner, but we envisaged the construction of a single document which, in this transition period, should now be a transition, and I do so do the dominantly repeat the transition to a sustainable system where the most goes to the sorters, that during that period, it will determine how much material there is to burn because definitely part of the materials that can burn should be burned because it realizes the use of the energy that this material contains. However, this must happen after the study, after determining the quantity, it must be seen where this would be positioned in what way it would be implemented and, of course, make sure that all the activities that the material that could be here could not or could not have been introduced into recycling schemes because we are talking in the new legislative cycle in Europe on waste. Very soon, there will be penalizing, therefore, the burning of waste that can be recycled. So the category of recycling of waste will be set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44786	Thank you very much. And then the last replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44787	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Dobrović. You are one of the few who probably understands here the concept of a circular economy of sustainable development of recycling of waste and often we have misunderstandings, I am convinced that some people in the ministry who are now in certain positions understand this and I am personally afraid that this direction in which Croatia has gone will mean the circulatory economy and everything you started with your waste management plan, that it will be threatened with these changes that have happened because simply people do not know enough about the problem. We were in our local self-government as well, but changes took place. I think that people are the drivers of change, and that if we have the head of the ministry of people who don't understand the problem that doesn't know which direction to go, then the process towards which Croatia is headed will be compromised. I expect that here we will all be as assembly representatives that we will have one broad debate or workshop like you said, to introduce us to what the directives are, to what Croatia needs to meet and what it is a circular economy in the direction in which we should go in order to then put pressure on the ministry to continue and in this direction. Because it's possible that if we have the head of the ministry of people who don't know enough about the problem that there won't be that incentive on the part of the executive to go that way. We have a situation in Metkovic now that here the other day the mayor of HDZ appointed a man with a confirmed charge of cleanliness who, I'm convinced has no idea at all about the circulatory economy, the waste management and I am convinced that he will not direct the city of Metkovic in that direction but it is the price of that coalition with Jamba. We have a gentleman here I respect as a parliamentary representative, he came here as part of an agreement between the coalition SDSS and HDZ but the question is how competent he is to push things in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44788	Thank you. The honourable representative Dobrović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44789	Thank you very much. Yeah, there are risks, first of all I'd say there are definitely people in the ministry themselves, so we're talking about people who understand things. And the only thing that can happen is that the one who makes decisions is consciously going in some wrong direction. I personally don't think that's gonna happen. I would like to draw attention to the responsibility of all of us, so you mentioned the local self-government unit Metkovic, so of course part of the responsibility lies on the mayor because he implements, he is responsible for waste management. The state, on the other hand, gives a legislative framework, brings a plan, so a strategy where and where it goes, how, by what measures it will encourage. There's a regional level that has to fit in in some way. And what is important is that there is no jag for some solution that is often luxuriant in nature, but that really goes consciously and without a reserve in the direction of strengthening the degree of sustainability, which is paper and plastic to leave locally, some of which benefit local communals. On the one hand, it brings profit to them, on the other hand, all that remains will be a burden for them because they will have to pay for taking care of it at some center that we can see is over 100 km away. Therefore, responsibility is high at all levels. And I believe Minister Coric will, when he learns about this problem that is not simple, follow the provisions and guidelines, so the plan that we all brought together in January this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44790	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44791	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will also support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. As I was preparing for the debate on behalf of the club and since it was the first amendment of the law that was passed on 27 June 2013, so 4 years ago and a few days ago, I commented on behalf of the HDZ Club 4 years ago that the law had been passed practically 4 days before Croatia's accession to full EU membership. That it was passed by the emergency system, that we practically as MPs then received the law on benches in the morning, the afternoon law discussed and immediately adopted. And then on behalf of the club, here I have my own exposure warned that we did not leave enough time to see if we had brought the law into line with the directives, if we had really implemented all those obligations relating to waste collection, sustainable waste management and that it was then necessary to go to another reading, that we should have conducted the right debate with the interested public, we did not do it then, but nevertheless the law was passed. And here we are witnessing today, in fact, that we now have to comply with two directives that mean exactly what I was saying in the name of the club at the time. But now it's more or less not that it doesn't matter, it's probably also support to all those who say that the laws really need to be passed in the Parliament in regular procedure. And I think that now we in the House are actually witnessing that almost 90% of the laws we make are practically brought into regular procedure. What is important to say is that when the law was passed in 2013 it was planned that the waste management plan would be adopted by the end of 2013. So it passed in 2013, so it passed, or was not adopted until the end as foreseen in the transitional and final provisions, so it passed in 2015, and in 2016 it was then adopted at the level of the Government and the Waste Management Plan in January 2017 and that was, I and then we participated and we had discussions on the Committee on Protection and Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament where we followed the adoption of this law, then was Minister Mr Dobrović. And it was the first version, then the second version of that plan, which was later adopted and which plan implies about 475m euros as much as it could get funds from EU funds through the implementation of the plan. However, it was clear that the implementation of this waste management plan also required decisions, both the decision on municipal waste and the decision on the implementation of the waste management plan itself. And the government made those two decisions in May to meet everything that was planned, and what we eventually accepted through negotiations with the EU, which is that, for example, in 2020, we will set aside around 50% of municipal waste at landfills. At this point we are somewhere at 24%, it seems to me, and in order to reach these requirements and targets set before the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary that units of local self-government implement decisions on municipal waste in order to collect waste separately in the local self-government unit itself. It is also envisaged through the decision to implement the waste management plan itself how and how to achieve everything that is outlined in that plan. The plan has been drawn, and I am somehow surprised by the statement by counterpart Dobrovic that Minister Coric said that one of his priorities would be to build regional waste management centres. If he had said something else, it might have been weirder for me, by the more the very plan that then Minister Dobrović proposed to the government, the government adopted, is to build these centres. Now the other things there can be partly agreed on, the other thing is how the centres will be, how much they will be capacitated, whether those centers that were originally designed and which were drawn up before the law enters into force and the waste management plan on significant higher, more acceptable data and quantities of waste. It's on one side. And on the other hand, I believe that the construction of these centers is not in conflict with the construction of recycling yards, recycling centres, sorters, composts, etc. etc. However, if it is not best to argue with the fact that it is precisely in the programme itself and designed to build a recycling yard at the level of units of local self-government, that wherever possible, recycling centres are built, no one prevents the construction and design of composts, sorting centres, etc. etc. But we must be aware that when we build all this, the question of how many such courtyards and cents in Croatia we will build, but the fact is that regardless, we need waste management centres. I just don't see and know in Europe a country that can absolutely say that a process has been implemented that has been said a little while before, a circular economy or a circulatory economy, however we wish, will become raw waste at the last full, and that such centres will not be needed, but on the other hand, I accept and know that as much waste as possible is needed in a way that it is not recycled, that it is not sorted, that there is no sorting. So what the minister said is acceptable to me, and the fact is that both local and regional self-government units are looking for, that many counties are already at a very high stage of realisation or project documentation, or building the necessary infrastructure to start building waste management centres. Therefore, what the minister said is the trail of the waste management plan if the plan as the plan was made in January, and in order to join its implementation, its implementation, these two decisions and decisions on municipal waste were necessary and the decision on the implementation of the plan itself. The fact that this requires large funds to be restructured and reorganised by their utility companies to a number of local self-government units, that this implies a different way of charging public waste services, that it is necessary to introduce them in the whole country in order to implement this waste management plan to be charged according to the amount of waste, not to the number of family members, not to the area of the housing unit, is all one of the procedures that is necessary and which is not easy to implement but which we have committed ourselves to. And we have until 2020 to significantly reduce the amount of waste that ends up in landfills. To realize that, it is necessary to make both components of the plan. And on the one hand sort, recycle, separate, compost and on the other hand build waste management centres. If we don't make you two, we won't establish quality sustainable waste management. And I therefore do not see the conflict of absolute construction on the one hand of the regional centres envisaged by the plan, for which the funds will be obtained from EU funds and, on the other hand, encourage the local self-government unit to implement this segment of primary collection or waste separation and sorting. In this sense, I would like to say that the ministry has announced a new law as far as I have heard of waste management, it would be good that all these doubts that we have heard on the parent board itself, and all what is said here in the debate, to get rid of, to enable more quality resources to local self-government units, more resources available to local self-government units, so that they can carry out their obligations that have been imposed on them by the waste management plan, i.e. not imposed, but are also intended and well that they are implemented and that this law comes as soon as possible here in the Croatian Parliament. I suggest clearly, in the procedure of first and second reading so that we can then make all our remarks to the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44792	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. He is the first to present a distinguished representative of Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44793	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić, therefore higher than my statements, i.e. my comment to the minister on why I think it is not good to say we are going back to building a waste management centre because there are many parts in the Republic of Croatia that, when they hear it, do nothing. So, in order to have those two components, we have to really go into a system of separate collection and recycling yards and sortery, composts. There's a lot of places in that field. On the other hand, the CGOs have long been in the financing system in so-called "Cgos". Paying the plan doesn't require a particular waste of words to say we need to do that. However, the minister must tell everyone that you cannot count on more than 50% of your municipal waste to drive there. That's important, because in two, three years' time, the house will come a time when the account will be subscribed, so that 40 million euros, I'm now talking like this, of course, can be any number distributed naturally to the citizens, the number of residents, etc. So, I didn't mean, it's not a catastrophic statement. However, I would just like to hear, in such a sentence, that there will certainly be concerns about what has been systematically neglected for years. So, sorters from that collection, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44794	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kolega Dobrović, the good side of the waste management plan is the fact that it is necessary to establish the upper limit of its optimal amount of waste that can be reached in the centre before the implementation and outcome of the documentation of any centre in Croatia. And that's good, and you stood up for it, and I support it. And that's not controversial. Thus, we say that it is necessary to reduce the flow of that waste into that center. But what I disagree with you. I think local self-government units and district self-government units are smart enough without a ministry. And it's in the interest of the mayor and the captain to build a recycling yard, build a compost, build a sorterry, and he doesn't need a single minister to beat him over the head all the time, so don't forget to do it. I think that's what every chief will want to do, because that's how he fucks up the waste management system in his local self-government unit. It's worth it to his citizens, they choose him. And that constant doctoring so-called. to the local sheriffs what they should do to me is not an acceptable measure. Therefore, I hold that I also support yours, and I supported the plan that you proposed. Let's then build a recycling yard, force through the legislation to decompose anything that is possible, define, separate, recycled, sort, compost. But when you do, I think you'll still have to build a center. If we have to build it, and we say we have to build it, then we build it as soon as possible. Because as long as units of local self-government establish what we think needs to be established, while establishing that 50% by 2020, we need to secure the centers, so that the centers start working. Because if we don't go with it, it's still a demanding process, then we need to establish it as soon as possible. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44796	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44797	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, that when regional dumps were set to go, then, as I had already said earlier, it was planned that local self-government units, where the existing dumps were, where the waste collectors were, so the municipal societies, would be set up there. And then it's presented to local self-government, I don't know what it's like in the rest of Croatia. I'm talking about this region north where Pishkornica is, that these sorters will be financed from the project of building regional centres. In the meantime, it's gone, so suddenly the sorters are gone. I am from a town that has done a lot of waste management among several cities in Croatia. The Križevci also have their recycling yard, they have their own sortery, they have separate collection of waste, they have a renovated dump, and we almost fell for the programme of regional centres. Why do I say you almost bought it? Because we were told that and that year the local dump is closed, waste is driven to Pishkornica. But caution is never enough, so we're still going to continue the expansion of the local dump, to ensure for the citizens as cheap a waste disposal as possible. And today we are preparing in the Križevci an expansion of the dump, because we don't know when it will work regionally. I think we skipped a very, very important step when that waste management program came into play. I think we've skipped cities and we've created a big problem here because now we have a situation that many have not moved on with their problem solving and today they have nowhere to go with the waste, so we're having a little bit of a big problem. Local self-government units should have co-financing from the Environmental Protection Fund. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I'm afraid that's going to be difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44798	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, was it a delusion or did we live in the belief that with the centers we would solve the matter of waste management I can't say it now. But the fact is that the waste management center, which is 70, 80 kilometers away, as it is in my county, from Korčula, is the center that is planned in... the coast where I still have to pay the ferry, certainly that those of us who are far away, and such situations are anywhere in the county that are quite remote centers, teaches us that we need to reduce the amount of waste that goes there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So even without having a set goal, the fact is that it's an expensive project, it's pushing us into recycling yards, in sorting plants, and in compost it stops all forms of reduction of municipal waste. And that's acceptable, and that's why I don't pay and I've been saying it for a long time. There's no conflict in reducing municipal waste with downtown construction. It's a basic message to me, to build centers, because it's necessary, because it's going to take a lot of time for us to come and if we ever get to a paradigm... but we're also doing these recycling yards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you said about you is that you also need to set up a ministry as has the priority of building a centre, it must also provide with local self-government the means to build such courtyards and all of these recycling centres that mean that something wider waste treatment from the recycling yard.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44800	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44801	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, I agree with your debate, especially in the section in which you point out that it is really necessary to work on implementing projects for the construction of regional waste management centres as soon as possible. Here, I have to say, so, from the county where I come from, it's the carlova County, it's really a year ago, it's all hitched up, and I don't really think it's good, there's a lot of time going on when we're changing policy guidelines about how we're going to solve something in the future or not. And it's actually not good not to take care of what the situation is on the ground, where we came up with certain projects and just, then we make a decision. I think thinking about how waste is going to be processed, whether it's MBO technology or other. Once a decision is made, we cannot change it every 2 to 3 years, because the question and responsibilities, which will be and who will be responsible when in 2 years or 2 years or shorter and in Karlovac County or in other counties we can't take care of the waste and we won't have a final waste management centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44802	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, on that trail that you just said, I've been discussing a number of debates and within the Parliament about not stopping the construction of the center. Why? Because anyone who's a little better, and doesn't even need much, knows about the construction procedures of that center. We know it can't be built within three to five years. Depending, clear business planning documentation, studies... its optimization, location permits, building permits, not to speak necessary about the resolution of property legal relations, the resolution of the necessary infrastructure, construction, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The application for EU funds is all a more lasting procedure and I did not agree that we would stop any part of this process, because once we have stopped and we have to start from the beginning. We will lose 3.4 years, and I don't know when we'll be in a position to quickly absorb these funds from European funds in order to start building the centres themselves and agree with you, we need to work on it, push it, the ministry should read it together with the counties that are planned and in whose areas regional centres are planned. It is one of the priorities of the ministry's work in the waste management section.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44804	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it seems to me, in fact, that this law is the beginning of moving away from this new paradigm of waste management, which was to introduce Minister Dobrović, i.e. such a zero waist policy, i.e. waste disposal in a way that remains as small as possible, so that he can be as usable. We have to admit that this idea, this new paradigm of waste management, which the ministry, led by fellow Dobrovic, wanted to introduce, was a step forward in the sense that it was still closer to this principle of circular economy and that the content itself, therefore, of education to destroy, so from the beginning, what is said from the botto up, was much more relevant than the idea that is being pushed today. However, in order to accept this idea, it was necessary to change a lot, primarily in access to waste management centres. And that's where the biggest obstacles came from right on the side of the county. So it wasn't all the fault at the ministry, but there was a lot of it in the mayors who simply couldn't or couldn't have been capacitated to think a little bit wider except for their narrow views. Finally, it seems to me, in fact, that this policy, the policy of waste management in the Republic of Croatia, is actually the principle that we travel in Croatia in fact in politics, which is a step forward, 2 steps back. Unfortunately, and so we're actually going to be very difficult to get on some way forward. And I think in the end, it's not really a question of all the questions whether we're gonna pay for the pens or not. It is a question of all questions whether we will finally have waste management in the Republic of Croatia in a way that will benefit both the economy and the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44806	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I have not read the distance from the project of circular economy or leaving the concept that it is necessary to minimise the amount of municipal waste in Croatia. This is how much we heard from what the ministry and what it says in the law is further compliance with the two European directives that were missed in 2013, and now here is the emergency procedure. I agree with you, the foams are the least important even though they're big. If we're working to avoid foaming, it's no use. I agree that the circular economy allows the local self-government unit and the entire economy to make it possible from something that ends up somewhere in a dump, somewhere in a dump called garbage we are trying to make raw materials to create new added value, to enable new financial resources for companies that participate in this process, as well as the local self-government unit. And here we give full support, ultimately it is an EU project that has been unanimously adopted and that every reasonable state, every reasonable unit of local self-government must implement. And I agree with that, but that moment when a state so that it was eco-aware at a high level of development such as the Scandinavian state where I think about 80% of the municipal waste is separated, recycled, composted, sorted to what we have today is a long way off. And by this time, we must have such centres that will allow us to shut down these illegal or legal municipal open dumps.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44808	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44809	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, from your presentation, I saw that our waste for the past 25 years was about to wander in all of this, and if we were to follow that Europe had long wanted to build county centers, we should have built local warehouses, recycling yards. However, I would say, that we are very lazy and very slow thinking, that we are doing very little and that we have not done the most basic things that we should have done long ago, at least these recycling courtyards that today in the mass of cities don't have what they should be, that we don't say county centers where here's the Vukovar-Srijem County of Osijek-Baranja they haven't done. So I wonder, God, what have we been doing for 25 years? Well, that's not the problem. It is not Minister Dobrovic's fault that for a year he was like a minister who probably had good ideas and all the other ministers coming. But we don't know how to cross, see what the modern world has done like Austria, Germany, Switzerland, and I don't know which countries in Europe to apply to us. We have the surface, we have everything as here's the story was from Dubrovnik the trash should go to Gunjo. For not believing or in Piskornica, simply a man is normal when he thinks, so he can't believe someone from Dubrovnik will drive. If it hadn't been for some recycling yards of county centers that would have sorted something out, and we could have done it a long time ago, we didn't even do it well in our houses, in our buildings in our cities. If we think about it that it's such a problem, I'm deeply convinced that it's not a problem, but the only problem is in local self-government to offer people, here's a little bucket that we're already getting, and we could have that 10, 15 years ago at least in my ugly backyard where I live the recycling yard. Now, Europe in Vinkovci, somewhere around 30 million, has recovered an old waste that was 300m from the hospital, which is now turned into a park, it's nice to see it, but here we have space thank God so we throw anywhere. It doesn't take a lot of brains, a little understanding, willfulness and determination between all parties that come and ministers and get rid of it once, because I don't think that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44810	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Misic, you're partly right. Why? Because there are local self-government units that are extremely successful. You know, there's a unit of local self-government, that I don't single out someone now, so I'm going to forget someone else that might be more successful, but in which it's shown how and how to collect, recycle, sort, there are local self-government units in Croatia. There are those who didn't do anything. But for those who haven't done anything there's no excuse, and for those who've done not much to say a bit, there's a part of the justification because we've been wandering from the central level, so we said there'll be centres, there'll be 21 of them, so there'll be 13 or 8 of them, so we told some of them you won't have centers, you'll have a boat burning down on our shores, so we left the firehouse, so we said there'll be a couple of malls of small cargo stations, so we went back to waste management centers by reducing their capacity, etc. So they could make units of local self-government a lot, no one stopped them, but the laws did, in a certain way, push them to reduce the amount of waste to close down their illegal dumps, to reduce the garbage there or it's still not garbage, the waste that's going to come there, and so the truth is always somewhere in the middle. A little bit of local self-government has been scheduled, but no less has failed the central level, and the result is that today only 20 percent of this municipal waste is being separated, and that we are mostly still here in the Parliament, and we are sort of discussing whether this is better or different. I think what this plan has made is a pretty good basis to move on now to realize those goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44812	Thank you. Now we will move on to the next Club of Representatives and that is the HNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Milorad Batinić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In principle, we are not in favour of an emergency procedure, but we are aware of the urgency of the procedure, we are late and therefore the HNS Club will support the emergency procedure more than the implementation of European legislation and some minor changes and corrections. In fact, it was expected but we also accept an announcement that was on the board and we heard the secretary of state that the whole story will be drawn up a new proposal for a law on sustainable waste management, so I won't even talk about it much. In fact, I would point out some of the things that are important and could be heard from the debate of everyone we took part in that, waste equally raw materials. We had certain criteria that we should have respected whether, if we weren't, I don't think we can be completely satisfied at the level of the Republic of Croatia, the way we've spent waste management so far. Of course, from both local and regional and national levels, so no one can be alimated from the part of that participation of responsibility they have. Unfortunately, we are now recovering about 17% of the waste as much as we can see from the available data and our goal is 50, depending on the middle to the middle, on the situation, on the circumstances and so on. However, I would point to some points, Article 8 of the amendment to the law, and I think that prevention is one of the key topics that needs to be discussed and key things that need to be put at the heart of the law. It's a waste prevention plan. Whatever this means in practice and in the basic law that has been amended, it is also far more precise and perhaps too detailed, but there are key things. So the objectives and measures to prevent the creation of waste, then a description of these measures, and ultimately to see the effects of creation. The waste management plan, we've been waiting for him for a long time, and the fact is, I'm going to repeat what the mass is, more or less, all of what we've all come to realize, is the impression that we've been wandering too much about this plan, the way that we recover this waste even though these technologies that we're talking about today are known about a few decades ago in the EU. I don't know what the reasons are and the fact is that it's not an act or a slow doing of certain things we all pay together as citizens as well as the state. What I would also like to say in Article 14 of the HNS Club we have sent an amendment and I would ask the Secretary of State with an associate, I will read it, in Article 48, which speaks of tones or pounds of hazardous waste, I believe our amendment is of nomotechnical nature, so it says, in Article 68(1), 200 is replaced by 500. The same thing is in paragraph 3. Well, I'd like to make an explanation if you feel that the existing law does not need to be amended in paragraph 3, then we'll accept the refusal of amendments, but I think it's the same matter, pure nomotechnics. Thank you very much. Furthermore, I would like to mention the transitional and final provisions, I think the amendment of the committee to go in the right direction. And what the secretary of state explained, I agree, the procedures are long-term, possible complaints through public procurement procedures, etc., so I believe it's optimal. But I think, specifically, if we weren't going too far into this topic, I'd just want to put the accent on once more that we're talking about the Sustainable Act. We all know very well what it means when it comes to the sustainability of something. We are all aware of the fact that the pay polluter and on the other hand the goal is to make our citizens as cheap as possible, so as not to say cheaper than acceptable... waste management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that the new amendments to the laws that will go on, that is to say, all together and what we are now, which will be incorporated into these amendments and the additions of the law, my suggestion is that this law which will be new to be written is understandable and that it is common to the public and to the citizens themselves, because I think it is a key factor in implementing all these measures that this law attributes to ourselves are citizens or waste producers. And the HNS club will support with this amendment, which we have also addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44814	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Branko Hrg. I don't see him. He's losing his right to speak. Next is Honorable Representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44815	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Mr Batinic, I was offered one of your statements on this replica and that is the plan to prevent waste. In fact, I'm sorry that we're talking all the time about what we're going to do with what we've produced ourselves, and to what extent we've produced it, and we've produced it to the extent that today is a waste, so don't misread what I'm going to say, waste like this, and old people have become the almost insecure problem of civilization that we live in. And I think long-term seeing as our battle with this is lost, whether it's a recycling yard or not, whether it's this or that technology, it just depends on the success of those who produce it to us. That's why I'll just tell you that waste often can be raw and that often the institutions that produce something more important to them are making money on waste management. I'll just point out that when Dalmatia cement was purchased, English Redi-Mix was registered as a company for production in London cement but also for waste management. For waste management as an energy source. So I think we need to focus on the fact that you're talking about a plan to prevent waste, which is the task of every resident in the planet, just the question of how we're going to motivate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44816	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44817	Thank you. My colleague Dodig, well, we've all been discussing here mostly we've talked about the very law on the metrics of things that have been there and, of course, many about something else. And the plan. However, I think it is essential to prevent it from being treated. Preventive and from the earliest age, it is very well achieved believe, we are all informed about the action carried out at the level of the Republic of Croatia, the Green Cleaner, which has shown even, and let's say more as an example, more education as an example of good practice, however, I have managed to implement it in my midst since kindergarten itself. So in kindergarten they already have children, not just with me, I think more or less all kindergartens, so they learn to select waste. In my town since 2008, we've been selecting waste, plastics, paper, communal waste, large waste, etc., so before it was at all, it's a question of developing consciousness. And by the logic of things if we don't pay, then let's try to cut it down. The fact is, I'm not that much of a supporter of the weigh-in. Why? In certain environments, maybe not in big cities, maybe even, we have waste in the environment. So it's a double sword. So I'm saying, with these things very carefully, work on education, so I was saying exactly that in me, the key thing is the plan to prevent the creation of waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44818	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Batinić, you said that waste is raw materials, I absolutely agree, I understand the importance that you have said here and I know that as head of the local self-government unit you have done a lot in all this together. Here I am also the head of the local self-government unit, aware that the most depends on us, units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, clear and clear about the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as on the fund that co-finances all this together. We're recycling 17% of the waste today, so let's go spin it for a while, 50%, but we have to say what are all the options for recycling. First of all, we have the possibility of recycling on the threshold, on the doorstep, I think it's one very good thing and that all leaders should go in that direction. The other thing is green islands. The green islands that are here at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or the Environmental Protection Fund, helped to co-finance. The third is the recycling yard and I know that the fund has called this year, I hope that here, listens to me and the secretary of state, that this contest will be completed by the end of the 8th, 9th month so that the recycling yards can be built as we wished. And when we get the conditions for that, then the most important thing in all of this is to work on the citizens' minds together. Here I am, in all that together, convinced myself that the biggest problem might be citizens. In my unit of local self-government, we made a selection on the doorstep, we made green islands, we work in a recycling yard, and then the citizens of the green islands make dumps for us. We're going to have to work with the Joint Forces and the Ministry and the State and the Local Community, but perhaps most importantly, we'll start punishing them together. Because we can teach little kids, but adults can't. I think the only way is punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44820	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44821	An example of good practice, an example of bad bangs or even doing anything after waste management we have everywhere. When I said that the target is 50%, if we take it purely mathematically, does the city of Zagreb run a selection of waste on the doorstep? No, I don't. Only if we count at the level of the Republic of Great Cities with let's tell the urban some of the wholes, we've solved the waste within a year. We've reached a target of 50%. So, of course, like a lot of laws that have a similar intensity as this law, it can't be realised successfully without cooperation with all meanings, by vertical, not just by horizontal. So there must be absolute co-operation from national levels, regional administrations, regional self-government and citizens themselves. What else I'd like to say, education. She must never stop. She must never stop, and we must simply always look for new models and new ways of how in the case of ourselves citizens who are waste producers, I will take that word, it may sound rough, but we must educate ourselves on a daily basis. And I'm aware that no matter how many varieties of waste on the doorstep, let's say for me specifically at the dump we have, the amount of garbage has been reduced to about 61%. We're still seeing, of course, when this dump is rescheduled, we see that there's something on the dump, it could be used. So the question, how far, where's the end? That's where we heard 80% can recover, so that should be our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44822	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of IDS, PGS and LRI in the name of which they will speak the distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44823	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed State Secretary with an associate. Here on behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List, I would also like to refer to this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act with the final draft law. We respect the urgency of passing such a law and we are against such a way, but we are aware that this adoption by emergency procedure is simply formal in order to satisfy it, i.e.. comply with EU directives so as not to come into a situation if we have to pay certain penalties or penalties. However, I would like to say to this speaker that this may be said, that we are too slow to pass certain laws, sublegal acts to take advantage of the maximum of European funds, in order to realise projects related to waste management and waste disposal. We've been witnessing since '95. and until 2013. We're 2017 now. I'll welcome that you're on the board, but as a ministry, you've already promised to come up with a new law this year. Because we, especially in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, see great shortcomings in this law. Namely, the waste management programme that was adopted in January during Minister Dobrovic, but as well as the regulation on municipal waste management, adopted on 25.5.2017, we simply bring into question the management and functioning of two waste management centres, both Kastijun and Marinščina, meaning for the Istrian County and for the Primorje-Gorski County. In fact, we agree that the regulation requires waste to be separated, to be recycled, to be used as much as possible and to be used again where we see that, so we agree with this part, but we do not agree with the part where it is ordered to separate the collection of mixed municipal waste and biodegradable waste, which will surely lead to the purchase of that service for citizens not only because they have more cans, but also our utility companies will have to have additional equipment so that the transport can be organised. And that'll certainly increase the cost. counterpart Batinic said nicely, the EU defines certain things for us. But the Directive 2008/98 of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste requires exactly what he said, what is sustainable. It means that waste should be collected separately if it is practical in technical and economic terms and from the point of view of the environment. We are now witnessing that inspections are going especially through Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, economic operators preparing food and produce another type of biodegradable waste and they must separate that same waste from mixed municipal waste and biodegradable waste that can be used for composting. So they have to sign a contract with a company or an economic operator that has the approval of the Ministry for the collection and disposal of the rest of the food. And next, I'm going to say that utility companies are taking away some of the work, but we've started to collect waste, and hotels and restaurants are costing extra money. On the other hand, just in those two counties we have finished the mechanical-biological processing facilities were built. And with these changes in the law, there will certainly be a lack of raw materials so that they can be effective and do not question their instability of studies leading to the question of eligibility of investments. And then the question arises whether, in that case, when it is proved that these plants are not economically working satisfactorily, whether we will have to pay back money to Europe or whether we will pay for the penalty. In addition, I must point out that for exactly that kind of waste, no regulation has been passed that regulates biowaste management as a special category of waste. And here we see these illogicalities or inconsistencies as Mr. Dobrovic said there are certain conflicts from state level to lower. And just in these two counties there are these conflicts, because the plants are finished, the test plants are done, certain deficiencies have been identified. There are problems with the contractor to remove the deficiencies and therefore it is impossible to hand over the facility and finally put it into service. It should be noted that the contractual sides between the designers on the other hand are the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund. And now it is forced companies in Kastion and Marines to take over such facilities that are certainly not built on projects, so it is necessary to remove these shortcomings safely. So the lack of these facilities in office until the agreed deadlines and the lack of defined parameters is the issue of returning EU money, increasing the cost of service to citizens due to less efficiency of the plant. So here I would like to emphasise that the only facilities in Croatia for the processing of municipal waste were the mechanical-biological process by Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County. It now turns out that the two counties that have the capacity to process and dispose of biodegradable and other municipal waste will be subject to the same provisions as the rest of Croatia that do not have those facilities. The justification of the entire investment is at stake, but a message is being sent, that it is not important to adhere to the Law and the waste management plan, because those who comply with them and build waste management centres will eventually be punished. We heard this from Mr. Bačić, that some units of local self-government have done nothing, and now we are late, and those who have done so will be late again because they will not be able to comply with the new waste management program as well as the regulation that has been adopted. The size of the investment itself in these two centres tells the fact that when these centres were designed, they were equipped and they were reactor dumps. Under today's law, it was a reactor dump being treated as a dump. In our view, it is logical that it is not a dump, because from it after processing and disposal, there is a possibility of this biological waste, and all installations are already set up to produce gas as energy and to produce electricity. And if that dump were not treated as a dump, and if the waste was finished in that part, then we would immediately come to 50%, which is what the EU has ordered us to arrive by 2020. Because we're already in Istrian County at 23%. We therefore believe that the establishment of a system of separate collection of biowaste, as an integral part of municipal waste, is not technically, economically and environmentally justified in the Istrian and Primorian counties. Especially because these county centers are designed to process other municipal waste. I absolutely agree and support the idea of Mr. Dobrovic while he was Minister and in Istria County were built and recycling yard, we have mobile recycling yards, sortery and compost were designed, however it was stopped at the Energy Efficiency Fund. And it is certain that so far the results that show that metal, glass, plastic, paper and cardboard, bulky waste, textiles and green waste, that from gardens, parks, I'll add the market, that's not what the law says. But we're talking about green waste that's suitable for composting and composting. And it is certain that a separate collection of waste certainly contributes to the cleanliness of individual components of waste and later easier recycling. But also, it can not only be a purpose for itself, and it is necessary to focus on having a goal, but also a realistic picture of current and future recovery and waste management capacities. The entire waste management system is being established in Istria County and the Primorian Mountain County. There's maybe one where we disagree with fellow Dobrović. So recycling fractions are collected from door to door and through green islands. Recycling yards have been built, existing dumps have been renovated with the aim of closing them and putting the county centre in motion. Not by putting it into motion, but by now we're in trouble, because we know that existing dumps don't have any more free volumes. And they were built in Istria County all the loading stations and everything, recycling yards. Of course, a county center has been built, which has been waiting for six months to go into operation. Now, unfortunately, we're in a situation where the whole concept falls into the water and we don't know what kind of waste management plan local self-government units can bring. Once a plan has been adopted in the Government and when we have asked that we can bring the plan, which will allow the county centre to take care of the waste in this way, simply those two documents will not be harmonised. Therefore, in conclusion, considering all of the above, we believe that the establishment of a system of separate collection of biowaste as an integral part of municipal waste in the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County, is not technically, economically and environmentally justified and especially because these centres are conceived in such a way that other municipal waste without the separation of biowaste comes to home processing. Therefore, in their consultation in the draft of this law, entities and service providers in Istria, they submitted their proposals in the direction of abolishing, unifying laws for the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. However, their... I speak from service providers, our utility companies, none of them are accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We agree that this law goes into the process of rapid adoption, to bring it into line with the EU, however, I would ask the makers, the ministry to pay for the new Waste Management Act, to take care of what is built and how it will work, without having to pay back the EU's money tomorrow, pay for our penals and additional burden on our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44824	Thank you. On behalf of your exposure, we have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44825	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Demetlik, I understand from your presentation that you've built a county waste dump, but that he's not working. So I'm asking, is that paid to the end? Who's to blame for not working? Did the investment, if the investor did it, not end it, that everything was paid off and it was a matter of responsibility. It's not just a question of you, I know that Istria is one of the better regions that collects waste, but the question is in Croatia, the question is in many competitions, people got jobs, they didn't finish them and nothing happened. So you have everything, the performer didn't do his job, whether the performer was paid 30% or 70, 90 or 100%, that's the question. If he's not finished, then there's another performer and you finish the job. Someone's got to be responsible for these contracts. So that's what the contract requires, if you don't do it, we won't pay for it, and then we solved that problem with other performers. But we all go wrong, we give the contractor the money, he takes the money, he goes out of business, the problem stays the same to the local government or the state or anyone else. So it's a question of all the questions in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44826	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44827	I thank you for your replica and your question. I will remind only of the project of the construction of the Kastijun County Waste Management Centre since 2010 has been included in the IPA operational programme and has been approved by the European Commission's co-financing of 72%. The rest of the deal between 41 local self-government units of the Istrian County reached an agreement that the rest that will be raised credit that we as units of local self-government will return in the coming period. When the project passed a legal relationship means the relationship between the Ministry of Environment Protection of the Environment Fund and the Istrian County and Kastijun, however, the contractor's full procedure was run by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Kastijun d.o.o. as the end user. During the course of the construction of the centre itself, there were normally some problems with the performer, the contractor was a Greek company with no memory of how and GP Krk our domestic performer. However, the supervision that Europe has also imposed is one Danish firm, unfortunately there has been an end to the contract, there have been some problems in the implementation and after the test drive that has been established certain shortcomings and now what Minister Dobrović has said, I will not have a certain conflict or disagreement that will have to do with it and in what way to eliminate, who will pay for the damage and why it is late in the first place. So Kashtyun simply doesn't want to accept the project at the close-up stage that was projected so we don't get into a situation tomorrow that we have to pay certain fines.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44828	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Demetlika. So, the Castion Center at some final stage is almost over, and I have to admit, there's a situation there that's not great. We hear there's a lot of problems. But I would also like us to start talking about the responsibilities of the people who adopted such a concept and the foundation that it was built. So that's not a good concept. We are now in a situation that we need to adapt the system and there are solutions in which the capacity of Kastion is used. It is certainly not a avoidance of separate collection of kitchen and biodegradable waste because we from some parts of Croatia can also drive any simplification in the matter of waste composition, and it has always been decomposable when it has less, things are simpler, technological task simpler and we will be able to meet norms and that drive does what it can do. However, definitely from there packages from that system you can't make a miracle and it's not a good approach that because of the fact that it was built blocks all efforts at separate collection. Because if we compare ourselves to someone who has built there are environments that have built sorters and separately collected as island Krk, they have no problems. They are in line with all that is now coming because they were high in the hierarchy in the proper order of waste management. So this is the other way around this is at the end. And therefore simply the results of these facts and now we are where we are, I think Croatia can find a solution to using these capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44830	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44831	Here's a thank you. Comrade Dobrović, you continue to claim that this IBO system is not good. When we are together with the ministry and with all the professions, I will also remember the Faculty of Engineering in Zagreb who have just worked on the new strategy and on the management plan and on new laws and tours, someone mentioned, from Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Slovenia even gives excellent results. And just for such locations as the Istrian County plant 90 thousand tons is ideal, only we've been late for 12 years. Imagine if it was built in 12 years. According to your theories, we will not get to the results that you have drawn in the next 20 years, precisely because of the sooner and the habits of separation because what you promised to do in a year we will teach the Croatian people to separate 100% of the waste because you promoted the idea of zero waste or zero waste practically argue that in the next 10 years it is impossible to perform it. Therefore, one facility that guarantees precisely those measures, which is why the European Commission has also approved the construction of such projects, and they were bearers together with the fund, and we are in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and with the waste management plan. So all we did was aim to ensure the citizens of our county as well as our guests that we had adequate waste management and that we were at the very top of the technology offered in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44832	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Sustainable Waste Management Act. And when you see little of the assessment of the situation and the reasons why this amendment of the law is made by an emergency procedure, it is among other things that the basis of the basic law that was adopted in 2013 established infringements of certain infringements related to the EU and must be adopted. However, as soon as one law comes into debate, it certainly opens up a number of other topics. I am very glad that I have the opportunity to speak behind Mr. Demetlika because where the Istrian County came from, the city of Zagreb did not come anywhere near. What you need from this pay phone clearly is the following. This century is certainly a century in which Croatia as well as other EU countries and the world will address waste problems, wastewater disposal problems, climate change as a fact. When it comes to waste, maybe the city of Zagreb and did a good thing not doing anything for reasons that will now be able to start from the beginning, because if he had done something he might have built a burner and you've opened up a bunch of problems. What is a fact, there are 800,000 people living in the city of Zagreb right now. And we can talk a lot about waste at Croatian level. More than 100 municipalities and cities have a perfectly decent solution and a way of handling waste in accordance with their opportunities and circumstances. The city of Zagreb has a hill called Jakuševac and when you see that hill it is not a natural hill, it is a mountain of garbage. Unlike some other major cities of other EU countries or other towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that treat their waste responsibly, this is not the case with us. So we didn't even come up with a situation where we're going somewhere to sort it out, we're taking it away because you and the MPs when you have opportunities and when you leave the Parliament and when you go where you might be staying and you're going to see something that we call green islands, they're green islands just by name and you see there that, one is a glass container, the other is for paper, the third is, they've appeared in the latest time and containers tied to textiles. Those containers are full. I live in the center of town and then I go with my paper and jars to the first green island, when I can't get in because nobody's driven for a week, two, then I go to another green island that's relatively close, so I make it. That's how you don't work. So from possible separation of waste on the doorstep in Zagreb is an absolutely still mental noun. My family has a long holiday home in New Vinodolski and Mr. Butkovic who's been mayor for a long time has become a minister, and a week ago, my mom said, where we're going to pay according to the amount of waste we have in the can and there are some bags for this kind of, like this, I said mom, you got something wrong. Of course living in the city of Zagreb, I thought it was different. It's really there. And in Zagreb, the thing goes further. And when we even separate it and take it away, it goes to the same place. Except for the paper, possibly. I'm many years old and I remember when I used to go to elementary school or high school the most normal thing was for students to bring paper, to come to one place, that this paper was given, applied, that it was used for further production. We're the money we got you paying for either trips or something that was. We forgot that. When it comes to waste, there are a few things we really need to take care of. Waste is not garbage, waste can be used for economic purposes. Smart municipalities and waste cities earn money. And there is no need to go through Europe, in Scandinavia, enough to see some municipalities in northern Croatia, and it is enough to go a little beyond the border, so see what Slovenians are doing. In Croatia it is not a fact. And until the city of Zagreb does its job, you need to know until 800,000 inhabitants take care of their waste, try to think about how many other municipalities and cities are in the first place. In doing so, the city of Zagreb is divided into 17 urban districts. The smallest town district has 35, 36,000 inhabitants. All 17 city districts have no recycling yards, there are 14 recycling yards. And now just take, the Sesvete is 90,000 inhabitants, I think it can compete many cities in Croatia by the number of inhabitants that it is, and by all accounts, are absolutely and absolutely far from something called the city. So when it comes to waste, the first and most basic thing is education. Education starts from the earliest age, it means kindergarten and there's no way we can handle it overnight, but we really have to educate children in kindergartens and schools to separate waste. The same must be done by parents at home, not in the same place. Furthermore, waste must be treated as added value, something that can be used for an economy that is not garbage. Let's just say the serious cities met with that story a long time ago. And they had just as much bigger, smaller, medium-sized Yakuševci as the city of Zagreb has. What are they doing today? They've solved this problem of waste today and they're going back to their waste dumps and they're using these dumps, or they're using them, not to say dumps, but let's say the dumps are something called urban mining. This means that you draw from these layers from the raw materials that are good and with which you can do something further. These amendments and the addition of the law came in the context of indeed the first infringements we had in relation to EU directives, it has certainly opened up among our MPs and beyond what this waste is and how we treat waste. And we need to know that we have really big problems. And the thing didn't start with us. Well, all of a sudden, we're not going to start the world from now on. So what my colleague Demetlika was saying, so we already have a certain way of dealing with the waste. For this we have received EU funds, for this we have signed agreements and those who have made, the city of Zagreb has no problem, has done nothing, so there is no problem, but those who are not allowed to create problems for them. We need to see how to adapt to the new conditions. As we all have different cell phones every day, so we've gone from where we typed into some kind of smart touch screen and everything, so in other processes things change, and that's how we have to adapt. We can't ask him to adapt to us. From this pay phone I really use the opportunity, the city of Zagreb has great responsibility, the city of Zagreb does not care at all about its waste, not only is the theme that we do not have enough recycling courtyards, that from the green islands which are, by the way, in some cities and half dug up, they are really green and you can absolutely see these examples in Croatia. Until it all goes to one place, that big hill called Jakushec is growing, it's covered in seagulls and it's white like that, but it's not snow or anything else in the mountains but really one big hill, it'll literally crash into our streets one day, because unlike not so long ago when the waste was driven three or four times a week, the waste is being driven away less and less. People who understand themselves say that there are some arrangements to wait for things to come to their absurdity so that these arrangements will be met, I just heard about it, so I won't talk about it, but, however, the responsibility of one job in which 800,000 residents live is extremely large, but the responsibility of all of us, the problem of waste starts at the earliest age of kindergarten, education is extremely important, and what we need to know, as Croatia differs, we have 556 municipalities and cities, things that are worth in Slavonia, don't start in Dalmatia or things that are worth in Zagreb are not worth anywhere else. This means when it comes to waste, we need to have several ways, of course, that in small municipalities we can work compositally. Compostana is difficult to work in, for example, one Mamutica in New Zagreb where a few thousand inhabitants live, lives more people than in some municipalities or cities. I have to when we talked about junk at all and talk about smart bins, and smart containers, and then you always have a questionnaire above your head, I've talked a lot of it in a not-so-so-a- long campaign, and then I got a questionnaire from a gentleman who lives in St. Sunday, that's a small community, relatively close, who said what you're talking about, we have it in St. Sunday. I know we do, and when we had the theme of smart containers, then I saw the project, or I saw what was worth in Vodice. It's the former mayor of Vodice, so I had a chance to see it work there. So we don't have to go far. It is enough to look at what works in Croatia when we talk about the city of Zagreb, but we should always keep one thing in mind. The world doesn't start with us, the world doesn't start with ideas, Europe goes on and on and on and on and on. We need to get to one level, we didn't get to that level. We didn't get to what was imagined, when you're looking at an analysis in the city of Zagreb being separated about 10%, my people, it's nothing. But it's even scarier, there's something going on with the paper, there's no problem with the jars that you're having the same way of processing them, there's a factory and everything else, it's not doing anything, and then there's really this one traumatic situation, you're still taking it apart and you're wearing some kind of circle to find a green island where you're going to leave it, then you know that, even if you see it, there's one truck coming, and no matter how different those containers are to you, he throws all three containers on one truck and goes on. Waste is added value, that's how it should be treated, that's what everyone's smart about, so let's finally do something that makes us smart people in our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44834	Thank you, and your presentation has yet caused one replica of the distinguished representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Taritash, you have said that a hundred cities and municipalities in our Croatia select this waste. Well, I think it's even more. There are mostly small municipalities that have consciousness, which have mayors, commissioners, who really see the problem, and they solve it. But I disagree with you when you said the city of Zagreb had nothing. The city of Zagreb has 8 billion kuna budgets and with the 8 billion kuna budgets does nothing, which is an accurate finding, but I don't understand why. But I really don't understand why the city of Zagreb is not doing anything. We have plotted that Croatia will select 50% of the waste in the following years I don't know exactly, I can't say, but I know it's not that far away, we won't be able to do it without the city of Zagreb. They knew the crucial question is why the city of Zagreb is doing nothing, and if it is finance we know that if anyone can do anything, the city of Zagreb can. And why they don't do it, it would really be a good question, it's a shame that the mayor and mayor of Zagreb can't sit in the Parliament, he would probably sit here and answer us all together and why Croatia will stand and tap in place, because without Zagreb we can't make those 50% waste separations. So here's if you know the answer to that, colleague Taritas, please explain to me why Zagreb is doing nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44836	The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44837	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, the answer is very simple. Because you don't have to. Because our mayor has one specific way of speaking, I, as you know, was in the campaign, I met him one time in the campaign and it was protocol in the Parliament. And he said I don't need to do it, I'm going to get the elections as many times as I want and I don't have to do the waste, I don't need to do the traffic, I don't have to do the business or let's say the children in Zagreb schools have one shift class. In our counties, I will say an example of the Varazdin County 80% of schools is one shift course, in Zagreb it is a thought noun. For example, in Zagreb, children go on three shifts to school. So that's a fact for you. And 8 billion just part of that plus holding and plus that's some other stuff. And it's started, but there's really no need, so when there's no need, it doesn't. However, it is also your responsibility to work and responsibility to the country in which you are the capital. The capital is what you said well, I said several times in my debate until Zagreb begins to work, at least run, at least do something, at least make an idea at least, project, whatever you want. Small municipalities and cities that really do this are big by what they do, small by territory, by the number of inhabitants or by the budget they have. When you add it together we will come, Croatia will always be bad, and downstairs when it comes to waste it will really drag the city of Zagreb. And the city of Zagreb has been doing nothing for years. You have three offices dealing with waste and you have one of two public companies owned by the city of Zagreb that deals with waste. But you have a chance when you walk around town to see what's really going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44838	Thank you very much. The following will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP... Okay, I would now ask that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP the Honorable Representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me just have one brief depression about what we've been talking about. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a referendum which we amend in order to compare in the list of what citizens have to give to the signatures with the OIB with the Strategy for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, and whoever claims otherwise, I would ask him to think a little bit before he comes to life next time. But let's go back to the law we've forgotten in the last 20 minutes, but it's very important for the Republic of Croatia. So the SDP Representatives Club is aware of the need to pass this law by emergency procedure and that is the fact. It's also a fact that we could have gone a little early on this procedure, so we might have been able to do two readings, and we're not in the grip of hanging that sword of sanctions over our heads, but that's what it is. So we are aware of these needs, and as happy as we would be to discuss this in the regular procedure, of course we accept the fact that we now have to do and accept the content of the law, even though we have certain remarks on it that I will talk about later. Thus, the law on sustainable waste management is a fundamental legal document that defines politics, measures and conditions of waste management in the Republic of Croatia. The current law was passed in 2013 with the aim of bringing Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis and making it more effective to further establish a sustainable waste management system. The 2013 law sets out in more detail... a system of responsibility in waste management, especially through municipal waste through the units of local self-government obligations, to achieve the objectives of the approach contract relating to biodegradable waste and to reduce the amount of unsecured waste to waste dumps, which were previously spoken of by respected colleagues and directed their discussion towards something that should indeed be our long-term goal, which is the system... but which is a very question of whether it is feasible in some short deadlines that some people without arguments have imagined. Furthermore, the Waste Management Act prescribes basic recycling targets for certain types of waste as a user of raw paper, plastics, glass and, in accordance with EU Member States' practices, an improved system of management of specific categories of waste. The 2013 law prescribes the measures and provisions necessary for the functioning and development of a single waste management system in the Republic of Croatia than the basic principles in waste management such as the order of the waste management championship, the simpler process of issuing licences, the plan for the prevention and reduction of waste generation, the location and construction for waste management, the information system in waste management and the like. This law, which we are discussing today, represents the first amendment to the 2013 law and, as proposed today, as colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me, removes the possibility of giving significant EU monetary sanctions to the Republic of Croatia and should therefore be supported in spite of its shortcomings. Also, this is also particularly important to note, the law ensures continuity of the management of specific categories of waste and removes the risk of termination of the collection system and the conversion of specific categories of waste that needs to be supported. But what we can't support is a flat-rate view of the need to make a whole new waste management law. Such an attitude was also presented these days in the debate before the board, but so were the colleagues and colleagues who had discussed it before me. That is why I am taking this opportunity to help my colleagues and colleagues and to point out to God and the Government's representative that the view that the new Waste Management Act will urgently go against this law is a matter of urgency. And do you know why? Because in this law, Article 27 provides for the implementation of the impact assessment within 2 years. Now let someone explain to me how in the bill we can predict the impact assessment of this law, which is the basis for its further application and possible changes while verbally announcing that we are going to change this law, if I have understood it well, perhaps by the end of this year. So, respected government colleagues, or you change the provision of article 27, you have until Friday, you refer to the government's amendment, which I object to and I will say and why or stop saying that we are going to change the law. This is a very important area to allow for the flat-rate and reckless steps we've had in the last year and a half that have led the waste management system to the edge of sustainability and opened up the possibility of huge sanctions for the Republic of Croatia. So think again about what the article 27 says and see if it's consistent with what you've been saying for the last few days. But let's go back to the changes and additions ahead of us. We mentioned before the need to pass laws by emergency procedure and perhaps more importantly, to ensure the continuity of waste management. However, neither of them can justify all the solutions proposed by this law and, in particular, not it, and I will concentrate on that in Article 25, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Act. These provisions provide for the extension of existing contracts for the execution of waste collection operations of a specific category and contracts for the performance of their processing, but be careful now, without any restrictions on the duration of such contracts. So we leave all existing contracts that legal and natural persons have with the fund in place and we don't say anything about how long such contracts will last. The position of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, which was also the position of the Committee on Environmental Protection, is that such a solution is unacceptable, which is why an amendment is proposed to limit these contracts for a specified period of time, i.e. that their duration is 12 months from the date of entry into force of this law, within which those who have entered into a contract with them would be obliged to re-prove the procedures for the conclusion of new contracts. To recapitulate, it is notable that the adoption of this law represents our obligation as EU Member States, we cannot escape from it. And whatever anyone said about us being forced into Brussels, that's what we're involved in. If you read the text of the law, for example, intervention in Article 25 of the existing law, you will see that we are directly referring not only to the regulations and directives in Brussels but also to the accession contract signed by the Republic of Croatia and accepted by the citizens in the referendum. So what we are now implementing is our obligation, and we have to do it, because of the fact that we are otherwise threatened by sanctions, and because all the systems that are being introduced at EU level, when we very carefully study them, are going towards one, the only goal, and that is sustainable waste management at the entire Union level. And that's something we have to strive for. And now let me have another crackdown from the very text of the law on the matter of waste management. In the last year and a half of the former minister, we have often, and in the debate, it has been repeated that the system of mechanical, biological processing has become obsolete, that Europe should give up on it, that it should give up on it. However, do you know how long the process of building a serious and excessive waste management center takes? I had the honour of being a member of the Kastijun d.o.o. Supervisory Board, who is in charge of the construction of our waste management centre. This business, through this company began 10 years ago and the city of Pula and the county had worked before that to prepare the location, the property legal relations, and then we had access to designing etc.. Yeah, we may have technology out there today that's out of date compared to the best available technology available today, but it's going to be with every waste management center. Because nothing like that can be built overnight. For each of these centers were they big or small needed time. And in that time, of course, there are new technologies. But is that supposed to stop us from finishing what we started or every time there's a technology to go out with something new? That would be what I'm going to conclude. Of course, the Club of Representatives of the SDP for the reasons I have stated will support this law with a request, but indeed a request to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we do not have to put ourselves in a position to wait not for the last moment but to wait for us to meet in the EU pilot system in order to implement what we have to implement. And then every time we use that rush and that punishment as an excuse to do something that we could do in time and what we could do in the last few months, work on the head and at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44841	Thank you very much. And on your show, we have one replica, a respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44842	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A fellow coat of arms, so I think you're chasing technology and concept. The change in waste management primarily refers to the concept, so the concept of sustainable waste management respects some steps and some missed opportunities that no technology can later compensate for. And I know that building a centre is a demanding and long-term process, but it's a real shame that towns and municipalities in Istria are from where you come from, they haven't used it anywhere, but they haven't generally used time to build more smaller centres for which it takes less time, for which we could also get European money and for which it sees wonders, could also be participated by the domestic economy or the domestic economy significantly easier than where it's imported, so foreign technology, so foreign contractors, foreign surveillance, and we have what we have. So believe that these things can change significantly faster and that change does not apply to technology but to the concept, to the paradigm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44843	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44844	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Dobrovic, look, I'll even agree with you. I'll even agree with you and say that, I accept the change of concept, but not the way you've approached it. It's in one thought-out way that will respect everything that's been made in the Republic of Croatia. Your concept that you went with didn't go that way. You took everything that was done, and you said it was wrong. Yes, colleague Dobrovic, it is. I have in front of me a report from the European Commission on what you've been doing. Well, that report is full of questions that are in Croatian, as easily translated as anything okay, what you're proposing is fine, but you don't say how you do it. Here's an example. He tells you very clearly. Your plan predicts that 50% of 390 thousand tons of biowaste will be collected separately and treated biologically. But it goes on to say the same letter from the European Commission, but the plan does not say how it will be ensured. There's no telling what the implementation mechanisms will be. You didn't do anything, Mr. Dobrovic. The only thing you had in your plan was great ideas how to make something happen. I support all your ideas. But the realisation plan, zero. And that's a year and a half of your term, zero. And since the last eight months when you've had energy under you, your mandate is minus 10, because you've done incredible damage to which it's a question of when this country will be able to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44845	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the HSS, on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44846	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. The HSS Club also understands the need to adopt in an urgent procedure this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management and I will repeat what I said in the replica that I call on all the governments and ministers so far to put us in a position today in 2017, 4 years after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, in an urgent procedure we must align our legislation with EU directives to avoid paying penalties, penals. He would remind that already some countries, Italy, have paid more than 40m euros, and Croatia is threatened with a one-time sentence and a penalty until exit, or until all the signed conditions are met, it can be a long-term process and it is a great pity for the Republic of Croatia and it is surprising for us on the ground that the waste management system in the Republic of Croatia has long been delayed by a long time since we had frequent amendments to the law in the previous period, there have been 5 to 6 changes, the adoption of the Waste Management Plan has been long awaited and every new minister acted as if nothing had existed before and nothing has been done. And I would remind the Croatian public he knows about the topic of a number of scientific and professional conferences, HAZU organized, interested, and entrepreneurs, county, regional self-government, local self-government along with municipal enterprises and eventually, ordered by the ministry and funds and cost-effectiveness studies for certain technologies, centres and others, even paid for Jaspers as an ex ante anti-evaluator, and finally we say we go to changes and supplements, the existing system is not good. And today we have to discuss and pass this law in an emergency procedure. And what's the result? The result is a riot in the field. A lot of European money has been invested, in the recovery of wild waste dumps, in the rehabilitation and coordination of existing municipal waste dumps, cities and municipalities, and today we do not have a single harmonised waste disposal under the existing law on Slavonia and Baranja. Let them still work together, coordinate, and some of them haven't gone one step further. In particular, the Ship-Posavia County has invested nearly five, six years in changes to the spatial plan, municipalities and cities investing in changes to the spatial plan to do the site is being analysed, waste management companies are being established and ultimately they say there is nothing you can do about it until this law is passed, until a waste management plan is adopted. And who's to blame? The fines will again be paid by the Republic of Croatia's budget, but also by citizens, taxpayers. How's that? Well, we are all aware that this law must be passed, but it should also be stressed that other sublaws that follow this law must be adopted in an emergency procedure so that it can be implemented on the ground. Consensus and policies and all public authorities are needed not only by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but also by all other ministries, regional self-government, local self-government and also by means of laws and definitions of both powers and legal obligations. Because in the current legislation, the mayor couldn't order himself, the local self-government unit to enter the system of joint waste management. This possibility must be regulated legally in order to avoid long-term negotiation procedures. It is, of course, necessary to respect science and profession, and I have already said, and we have paid for this profession which has said that to one technology, in order to say this now, we still have to change those decisions and we need to comply with European legislation and we need to make waste management sustainable. Yeah, and we at HSS agree with that. However, it is safe to discuss this systematically, to do education as already said since kindergartens, primary, secondary schools, from home about waste disposal and the need for awareness that waste is raw materials, that it is added value. Of course, all of this should include the rest of the interested public, and there is the economy, our entrepreneurs. Because according to some of them, they are not consulted enough about this problem, because, of course, the goal is to recycle and reuse as much as possible. But to do so is not just a recycling yard, a sortery, but you must also have a buyer for these goods. And how an entrepreneur will invest in some reuse plant of any material unless there is a stable legislation that will not be changed every year if there is no security of raw materials, quantity and continuity. And we in our economy have to make this possible if we want such a sustainable waste management system we have to guarantee them legal certainty in order to invest them and, on the other hand, to draw together 475 million euros from the competitiveness and cohesion programme 2014/20. Of course it should be said that the disposal is waste and transportation and, of course, the cost, but that cost cannot be passed on to citizens only. We must think that this is also a particular social component, that we must do this delay, that is, that the cost to our citizens is acceptable to their incomes. The price for citizens must not be too high and we must stimulate it to separate the waste on its doorstep. We also have some bright examples of the island of Krk and some other units of local self-government, but we also have examples where citizens separate, and then you notice that this separate waste is loaded into the same truck and going to the same dump of municipal waste and it detimises them. And even more so, since it's not charged by a kilo of untied waste, it's by volume that we're back in a position to re-emerge wild waste dumps. So, not the cost of the citizens, not the cost of the volume, but the cost of the kilograms. As regards the amendment of the Environmental Protection Committee, we agree that it must not be left unspecified, that a deadline must be set. From the State Secretary's explanation that in 12 months, I don't think it's a good wording either, because we can't make it go on forever and into legal uncertainty, but our proposal in front of the HSS club is if it's a short period of 12 months to make it 18 months, that it's enough to start the process and end, sign new contracts for specific types of waste and concessions to collect them. As regards the proposed HNS amendment where they would increase from 200 to 500, and it is dangerous waste that an entrepreneur producing hazardous waste in his technological process does not have to work on a risk management plan and a management plan not from 200 to 500 kg. I think it's dangerous to accept it for the reason that such waste then ends up on these uncoordinated landfills of municipal waste, so you have an example in Slavonia in the Davor municipality where waste dumps are brought, garbage from Varazdin County, Zagreb and some others without controlling what's in that truck, which is the amount of waste, which although the eyewitness is officially taking place. But he's worried that the citizens are being brought there and this particular amount of hazardous waste, and there's only 3 kilometers from the dump site is the source of water that feeds 60,000 inhabitants. So I'm asking you where the surveillance is, where the inspections are, if we've done enough to protect our citizens, to protect the environment, to protect our citizens' drinking water. Here in this context is our debate on this bill. We will accept it as a club, but here I call on everyone to be responsible for the Republic of Croatia, not to pay the fines, that we must pass the laws, that we must bring them in so that they can be implemented and that we must worry that our citizens also have because they want separate collection of waste but they need to be enabled by the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44847	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Vlaovic, this is what the HNS amendment you've been looking back on. One plan is to manage dangerous waste, and you probably know, what small producers are, that they too have control over production and you yourself said, establishing, that they should be led by an eyewitness, but not just that. And there's exactly the input of this dangerous waste and the sequence that's being led and exactly where it's coming from. It's just a waste management plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44849	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, I agree with you that we our entrepreneurs must be relieved, that they impose everything, costs and administrative costs should be reduced to allow them to be competitive on the market. But when it comes to hazardous waste, then any increase, the amount that they don't have to work on a management plan, and if there are all records, it leads us to doubt that then with this waste, anything could happen and end up on communal waste, and then we could endanger the environment and human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44851	Thank you. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. And she is the first respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44852	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management. These are their first amendments, its amendments and additions, and we should have done this in order not to bear significant EU monetary sanctions and to finally comply with the Commission's 2015 Directive and in the proper manner, to bring into the national system the provisions of the Directive 2008. What I'd like to say is, that's what the proposer would like to hear... So I'd like to beg you a little bit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is really necessary to adopt it in an emergency procedure and this bill brings us into line and potentiates separate collection and storage of waste whose valuable properties can be used, properties that make waste dangerous, etc. I'm glad to hear that a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash mentioned the town of Vodice just as a good and positive example. However, we also heard that perhaps the greatest progress they made on Krk, i.e. they reduced the amount of waste by 50%. As is known, a regulation has been adopted that will enter into force on 1.11. Incentive compensation, which will require units of local self-government, cities and municipalities to pay a certain amount to the Environmental Protection Fund, those who do not reduce enough waste, i.e. insufficiently motivate their citizens to collect waste separately. How the city of Vodice and numerous other units of local self-government are, for example, different. of a large Zagreb, started with this much earlier, there is a reference year, 2015. For example. We like Krk and similar cities, good examples so far, will not be able to have a positive financial effect, to duck, will have to pay compensation to the Environmental Protection Fund because they can no longer significantly reduce their waste. One more thing, you must take care of tourist cities and municipalities. For example. We opened a new hotel in Vodice the other day. We open up quality catering facilities and everything that goes up to it. It is impossible to get by increasing the number of nights, increasing the number of arrivals, which is the interest and intensity of all of us by the sea, getting reduced waste. Which means, there will be those who have never done anything compared to us who have long begun such a gathering. What you'd say, which makes me very happy, is that this is how we encourage the so-called. a circular economy. In fact, the circular economy is a development concept that represents a kind of alternative to the worn out model of the linear economy. So, take it, make it, consume it and throw it away. So, from the raw materials we have at the end of the waste, from the circular economy, which is essentially the EU trust, for one smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we try to reuse these materials, recycle. This trend towards efficient use, reuse of resources to limit negative environmental... the European economy, and also reduce the cost of economic activities with a view to economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One more thing, I'm trying to get all the topics across in a hurry, when it comes to investment and current environmental expenditure, there are significant differences between counties. For example. In 2014, the total investment in environmental protection amounted to 2.9 billion kuna. Of which in the county of continental Croatia 2.5a in the area, Adriatic Croatia only 0.4 billion kuna. The largest investment in environmental protection in 214 was just in the city of Zagreb, and that is 2.1 billion kuna, which is the same Zagreb that has no separate collection of waste. According to Eurostat data in 2014 the total expenditure of the general state for environmental protection is on average 0.8%, compared to our country, which is only 0.4%. I think our greatest strength is that we have awareness of the need to protect nature every day is growing, but that we have great weaknesses, that we have unsatisfactory waste management and a lot of illegal and illegal dumps. And here, I would like to appeal once again, to see once again, how to not punish those cities and municipalities that are early on with separate waste collection, how in a different way to treat those cities and municipalities in tourism, which also have their tourist settlements and which are essentially more and more difficult to number and guests and arrivals, and of course we have larger quantities of waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44853	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44854	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev, I'm sorry, I know about Vodice and I'm glad there's an example of a sustainable system in Central Dalmatia. In fact, you are an example that there are people who understand the concept, the need and direction of the sustainable as opposed to colleagues who don't understand and who think that for years we need to lay the foundations of some special MBO to get out of place. So congratulations and just move on in your efforts. So I would also support your remark, I speak for the promoters, hello are you listening, so this is a very good thing. Those who have already come somewhere must not be penalized, the reference year or the reference value must be for something in the formation, the effort that has already been made must be taken into account, this is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44855	The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44856	Thank you very much. It's always nice to hear the praises and here's another appeal, given that from 1.11. and from the following year, it's going to be a waste disposal to the quantities, it's a big problem for all of us in the coastal areas, since we know from the recovery of the dump, the construction of recycling yards and the like must go from that price, and then it's our permanent citizens, and the largest amounts of waste are created right in the summer months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44857	Thank you. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative Hrvoj Zekonovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is the distinguished representative, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44858	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the promoters. Here is today before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, with the Final Proposal of the Law, is an emergency procedure. Today we have heard that some of the various reasons why this law is passed, so eventually she would like to repeat that there are some irregularities that have been identified. 23 days after we entered the EU, a law on sustainable waste management was passed, but it was found that we missed something imported, and of course there were some changes in 2015 and we need to comply with them. Formally, these injuries were detected in '15. And '16. The year, and contracts with those working with the Environmental Protection Fund are also extended, and waste collectors, waste-processors are involved. This law is passed for these three reasons, these two injuries plus this continuation of the use of these contracts. All of this is the basis of this harmonisation of the law when it is the complete foundation and the Waste Management Plan of the Republic of Croatia since 2017-2022 that we can implement it that we brought in January, i.e. it was brought by the Government and what would point out that it is the basis for the operational programme Competitiveness and Cohesion in this financial perspective and that will enable us to use 475 million euros to finance the waste sector. Of course, today we have mentioned many times the concept of a circular economy and it is very important that we use this as soon as possible, but to be very careful in implementing this plan and aligning certain activities in the implementation. So the waste management plan enables the development of industry and recycling and the creation of new green jobs, meeting the Euro recycling commitments undertaken. The first plan is to prevent waste, reuse, recycling and composting, and separate collection on the doorstep. Here, she would only stress this separate collection on the doorstep if there were certain calls, funds financed by education and promotion towards citizens to separate waste. And it has often happened here and in the neighbouring municipality of the town where I come from in the city of Makarska there is also a commendable campaign, but the moment that citizens actually find out that maybe this separate waste that they've been wasting their time taking apart has lost confidence. It is very important when we bring this plan all these measures and activities into line that they really have a purpose because otherwise one mistrust is created. Also the backbone of this plan are recycling yards, recycling centres with sorting plants and composts where separate collected waste will be prepared for recycling. I would point out here that when we talk about waste in terms of recycling that we have to keep in mind and demand and the price is that that's when waste becomes one product and costs resulting from recycling of waste. And I think that it really needs to be considered to what level of recycling of waste and that different parts of the Republic of Croatia should be observed. Is recycling waste in my area from which I come can sometimes be much more expensive and we may be far more distant from the market and demand where this waste becomes a single product and where someone buys plastic, glass. And it happens that these recycling centres just don't have anyone to sell them to. She would also mention regional waste management centres. As I come from Split-Dalmatia County, which creates over 240 thousand tonnes of waste, it is very important to find a solution where and what will be the regional centre. My municipality, which has three thousand inhabitants, brings the share of tourists' nights in it, is 1.3. We now have 15 unadjusted, illegal waste dumps in the county. They must be closed in 2018. I understand that research is also needed and that a solution is needed where this regional waste will be, but we must understand that all this time we spend must be justified because at the same time it is delayed to 15 illegal or non-coordinated dumps, and we all know how much tourism contributes to the Republic of Croatia. Now I just mentioned how much a small municipality in our area contributes to the tourist numbers of the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, when the contracts of certain municipalities for the disposal of waste with some of these collectors, or companies dealing with it, could indeed come to an end, and it happened that after 3.4 days of not collecting waste, say, in the town of Makarska or in other municipalities that big problems had just happened, we were covered with garbage, so we have to deal with these problems urgently and there is a great responsibility to solve it. I would also point out here, the plan is in line with the Waste Framework Directive and it regulates the achievement of the targets for separate collection, recycling of components of municipal waste and is an integral part of the waste prevention plan. And here I would like to commend this waste selection and to encourage the composting of household waste at local level. We are in our area, I personally ran a project where in the area of Vrgorska, Imotska krajina, Podbiokovlja kindergartens and schools we included in the production of compost. And it's amazing how little kindergartens know how to separate the marenda, or the rest of the marenda, what size it must be. And this one education and promotion of such activities is very important. I would point out here, for the sake of the citizens, how many of these companies we have and how much waste is charged, which are the criteria. And so during 2015. The 207 companies provided public service for the collection of municipal waste. And according to the 2016 data, for the purpose of calculating the collection service of mixed municipal waste 60% of cities and municipalities use the volume of the vessel as one or one, the only or one of several criteria. Yet 37 only means the amount of garbage we create is used as a basic criterion for charged prices. 33% of them in the calculation as a criterion include the number of households, 25% as the only criterion and 24% use the number of emptying containers as one or only criterion. Less than 1% of them in the calculation take the living area of a meter square as the only criterion. In the period 2007 to 2016, the total number of companies holding a waste management licence increased. In 2016, in May, we have 441 different companies, which had some kind of waste management license. Of course, there are more than one legal person using more of these permits. So right now, I would just point out that it is important to capture this implementation of the plan, to resolve regional centres, but of course to coordinate certain activities in order to maintain the trust of citizens who truly accept these principles of the circular economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44859	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44860	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be right back. I agree, my colleague, with your exposure. You mentioned at one point exactly the illegal dumps that we have, you mentioned the Split-Dalmatia County where we come from and where we have the biggest problem with that. It is in this law on sustainable waste management that we are now harmonising with directives that are just about the collection and storage of waste itself and the categories of hazardous waste, and the mixing of the same and the impact on the environment itself. The article of the 10th mentions just the regional centres, the centre of Lečevica, which we have been trying to train for years. Make it and start working with it, because we had a little bit of a problem with a former minister who didn't exactly have this vision of the development of a centre that we've been pushing for almost a decade. Do you think here is also some experience of yours with this alignment with the directives and Article 25 where both deadlines and Article 10 that regulates the centres themselves are whether we are going to do a little bit of this and improve the work of the centres themselves, i.e. The development of the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44861	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44862	I thank my colleague Bacic for asking. So in our county, my mom has 15 uncoordinated waste dumps that need to be closed in 2018. We simply don't want to compromise and the tourism of the Republic of Croatia must have a regional solution, so the regional centre means waste. All activities undertaken must be taken with high responsibility because, if we want to question, we must investigate whether the proposed solutions so far are in order to understand that it means we are putting waste away in such 15 dumps which in no way satisfy the conditions and should be closed. So with very clear arguments we should go against any proposed solutions at the county level and as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44863	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mile Horvat, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44864	I thank you, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I will only finally thank all colleagues who have discussed this topic very well today, thank you for all suggestions, we consider them well-intentioned suggestions both in any case and professional suggestions. Thank you for understanding of the need to urgently pass these amendments to the law because we think they are beneficial, that otherwise we would have as a society of certain sequences. It was said here that we cannot go into amendments, i.e. the adoption of a new law, because Article 27 has been tied to a period of 2 years to assess the impact of this law. Of course it's not any limiting deadline, the impact assessments of this law are something we have to do and we're going to do it. And in the change or adoption of a new, whole legal text that will define the orientation of the Republic of Croatia towards waste management in the new period we will go very quickly, very soon and will be on public assessment, in public debate and professional and any other interested public will be able to say their opinion about it. Some colleagues have voiced concern that people at the head of the ministry will not do this job professionally, they do not understand the subject. I'll just say here that the fear shouldn't exist. In the ministry, there are a large number of professionals who have spent almost their entire lives devoted their professional careers to this topic, who deal with facts with professions and should not be concerned that they will not be able to deal well with this topic. The amendments will be declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the last thing I want to say is that it does not remain unscheduled, so here at one point the issue of the NP Plitvice situation was open. What the ministry has done, so we've notified the situation of the UNESCO institution, we've sent inspections on the ground, Monday and they're on the ground, scouting the field since Monday, the public will be informed about it. The ministry has collected opinions from relevant stakeholders on the spatial plan and has sent a request to the Ministry of Construction to amend and supplement certain provisions of the spatial plan, which could potentially threaten this species. So what was necessary in these moments, the ministry did. I thank you again for the debate, and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44865	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 163. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After it was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. We must therefore vote on having a debate on the government's amendment. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 115 votes, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister's representative to further explain the amendment. Dear Mile Horvat, secretary of state at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44867	Thank you. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia reads, in Article 25(2), paragraph 3 which reads the Procedures for the conclusion of the contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, will start within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. Explanation. The amendment lays down the obligation to initiate public calls procedures in order to conclude contracts for the execution of collection and recovery of certain specific categories of waste. It should be pointed out that the procedures for the conclusion of the contract under the Sustainable Waste Management Act include decision-making on areas of the conclusion of a specific category of waste, public calls for the submission of a service programme, the conclusion for each specific category of waste and the calling for a public call for applications, the authorisation of persons intending to enter into a contract with the Fund, the provision of services, the processing of waste of a specific category. Since the proceedings are also subject to the appeal procedure, which may result in mandatory repeated public calls, it is not possible to provide for the time duration of the procedure, which precedes the conclusion of the contract itself. The proposed paragraph 3 is therefore, in addition to Article 25, and all for the purpose of the time limit on the duration of existing contracts and having regard to the duration and duration of the procedures preceding the conclusion of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44868	I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. All I can do is clubs, if there are any interested? Since there are no interested clubs, I am closing the debate and voting on this amendment to the government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 120 votes for and 1 abstention and 1 against the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We have more amendments, submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the HNS Liberal Democrats and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would like to ask the representatives of the proposer to be informed of the amendments submitted. Again, Reverend Mile Horvat. We're going in line, so it's the first legislator's committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44869	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44870	The amendment is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. The other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44871	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44872	The second amendment of the Legislative Committee becomes an integral part of the law. The first amendment to the HNS Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44873	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44874	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. And the third amendment is the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44875	It is not accepted for the reasons set out by the Government in the reasoning of its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44876	Will someone report on behalf of the amendment promoter? A colleague of Zmajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44877	So we can withdraw this amendment given that the amendment of the Government has fulfilled its contents?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44878	Thank you very much. And I am then voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act with the amendments adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 119 votes in favour, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act has been passed along with the amendments adopted. We now move to the next point, that is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, first reading, P.Z. No. 165. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Social Policy, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go, colleague Zeljko Plazonić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we have before us a draft proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, which will redefine the obligations that are related to the acquisition of knowledge in the hygiene of persons working in direct contact with food. The following will be redefined with regard to the health checks of persons under medical supervision, the reduction of the number of debtors and the withdrawal of obligations for individuals. The legislative proposal will then reduce the scope of carrying out health checks on persons under supervision, thus no longer involving persons in the education system, healthcare professionals other than those employed and maternity services, and then persons handling exclusively packed food. Next, the legislative proposal empowers the Minister of Health to set out the amount of compensation for the implementation of knowledge acquisitions by the hygiene of staff working in direct contact with food, and the price of medical examination of the calliology of persons who need to be under medical supervision for the whole of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of which medical institution the acquisition of knowledge is carried out, i.e. the health examination is carried out. The legislative proposal prescribes that the beliefs, certificates, certificates, certificates and the like, which EU Member States and European economic space have issued to their citizens are equally valuable evidence of the need for knowledge acquired in the health of food and personal hygiene, hygiene of persons, or acquired the necessary knowledge of the prevention of infectious diseases and related to the exercise of registered activity in the Republic of Croatia. The methods are then prescribed, conditions for issuing funeral homes, especially in the part of the funeral home for people who have died of non-infectious diseases and funeral homes which are issued for the transfer of dead persons to the Republic of Croatia. And finally, the scope of the general measures to protect the population of infectious diseases i.e. the obligation to monitor zoonoses and zoonoses with particular emphasis on an effective zoonose monitoring system and their agents in food and human populations. Here, so short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44881	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? If they don't, I'm opening a debate. The first one appeared on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Ines Strenja-Linić. He's not here. He's losing his right to speak. The second club is the club of HDZ representatives and distinguished counterpart Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44882	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Here is the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, i.e. Amendments and Supplements, a very complex law, which includes a wide range of immunisation and immunisation, deratiation, disinsectation, concerns in fact about the protection of the public in every form of general, special measures, in fact, protection of the population in the Republic of Croatia and what is the reason why we are here today and why we have this debate is one major part of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, in its session 05 January 2017, adopted the Action Plan for Administrative Disposal of the Economy but also the previous Government in 2016 also made a decision on the list of non-taxable giving that should be reduced or abolished and thus help the economy and, in fact, among these proposals, several decisions that are also in this law, which should help the economy, but of course, there must be very careful, because of some of which we do not have a reduction of health and safety in this area. In fact, there was a fee here for education on the hygiene of staff working in direct contact with food and medical examinations on calliology, that is so-called. The hygienic minimum and sanitary booklet as they call it in public health services, which should be held by persons who are essentially under constant health supervision and who are engaged, means food or care for children and who are actually in contact with food and everything else related to food. Thus, an analysis of the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Publicities against Infectious Diseases found that there is a need to improve certain normative solutions especially in relation to the acquisition of knowledge of hygiene of persons working in direct contact with food, health checks on persons under medical supervision, the scope of general public protection measures against infectious diseases and methods and the conditions of issuing funerals for the transfer of dead persons with a high level of health protection and public health protection. What's kind of through the debate and through I've seen public health institutions, health care employers' associations most actually make remarks about the proposal to reduce this hygienic actually, i.e. review the calliology that was every 6 months, and the proposal is now to be a year. So here's to thinking, here's to the next one actually until the second reading is whether it's necessary to cut to one year or it would be good to leave twice a year as it is so far. And what we can all agree on is a price reduction, i.e. that the minister can make a decision with his proposal to even the prices of health checks that are now different from 160 to 437 kuna and medical education courses 245 to 480. I think that in this area it could be much done to reduce that price, to level in all areas because it is now happening that citizens from one county are going to check into another precisely because this education of health education is also due to the fact that prices in some public health institutions are much lower. So this unification would actually solve this problem. What is very important is also to point out that in relation to the acquisition of knowledge of hygiene of persons who work in direct contact with food, the legal proposal can be said to be exempt from this obligation by persons who are high professional devices of appropriate orientation such as medicine, pharmacies, sanitary engineers, biochemical engineers, food veterinarians who actually have this education even higher, certainly on a higher level than just this basic hygiene, actually acquiring knowledge. It is important that the minister, by means of his decision, sets out the amount of compensation for the implementation of the knowledge acquisition of the hygiene of persons who work directly in contact with food and the price of medical examination for calliology, and thus we can actually help to reduce the actual costs incurred by employers, i.e. companies that indirectly have a large number of likely workers working with food such as some food industries. I think here's this bill of law well designed, in fact, that the desire to help the economy, to dissipate the economy. But it is very important to stress that we must take care of the safety, health security of Croatian citizens. And of course, the second segment might be important to take care of the public health services of the county who will surely lose some of their own incomes from which they spent these funds and to finance the specialization of their doctors because they have not been resolved otherwise. And of course for other jobs that are related to public health, and to have as secure a system as possible. I think we've had a good system so far, that very rare epidemics and that we can be satisfied with the work of our public health services at the level of the Republic of Croatia and our counties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44883	Thank you. The second debate of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club, distinguished counterpart Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44884	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The club of independent MPs and the club of HSU has some reservations under this bill, and I think a colleague in the previous debate said in fact even though he finally said the law was good and would support it. But he actually said a whole series of arguments that I'm going to try to explain here, which is why we have doubts. In fact, if this bill had been written by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy, then it would have been normal for me. However, this bill was written by the Ministry of Health. And I can't believe the Department of Health just went over the fact that it's on the so-called list. parafiscal burdens find something and in this case it is public health procedures, which are related to the health of our people, and not only, means the health of those who are in the process of preparing food, but also those who use this food and where Croatia is at least what one of the countries is known to me or what knowledge I have reached a very, very high level of health protection standards precisely through these preventive measures that it has implemented in the public health system. And our public health institutions that have been doing this job and who are doing this job have indeed accomplished a task with which we can boast, but not only to praise, but to say that we are one of the best in the world. There's a few things we can brag about that's the way it is. And then someone remembers and puts on the list parafiscal burdens and medical checks because according to this bill, our entrepreneurs will save some 55 million kunas by assessing the impact of this law, which is obviously just an assessment. But I am not sure that this is the right way to pass a law in which we will save someone 55 million kuna, and in a situation where the overall health situation and the overall health situation in the world are, and we witness every day that we have some new infectious diseases, that we are a tourist country, which is exposed to quite a lot of risks in this regard, that they appear, that we have large migrations in Europe and that certainly these risks are actually increasing from day to day and not reducing in view of the great flow of people. And now, okay, we're in this law proposed that only certain groups, so people who work on the team, who are directly in contact with food, be singled out, or, that is, do not have to carry out those checks. But here I have to say that those who are in contact with food in trade chains, and maybe I'm misreading it, so maybe the secretary of state will explain it to me, who are working with the so-called. With packed food, they won't have to go to the exams, but I'm wondering, who's going to control it? We've got a huge fluctuation of shopkeepers, those workers at those malls, everybody's doing everything. So we don't have any special workers working on packed food, unpacked food, detergents, cash registers, etc., but more or less everyone does everything. And I doubt that large sales chains will report a minimum number of employees who will send for these checks, and this second part of the workers will simply report as workers who do other jobs, i.e. do not work with food directly. Since it proposes the Ministry of Health, I think that at the Ministry of Health, one part of the doctor, who should know what are all the risks of such a law, or the possibility that these people who work with food and distribute food, will not be reviewed and will not actually be under control at all, because as I said, our health inspection, sanitary inspections do not have the capacity to control so many people. And now it's all gonna be okay, someone's gonna save it, everything's gonna be great, and what's gonna happen if any kind of epidemic happens in a tourist country in the middle of the season. Then who's going to be guilty? I think that it is far more precise in this law to determine who will not be supervised, or who will not have to do those checks on the list. And I think we're gonna need to increase surveillance. And that's going to cost this country, so that the risk, that is, this bill's proposal, will go to the benefit of entrepreneurs, but to reduce the risk to the general public to the least possible measure, or at least the measure that it is now, and now we're relatively satisfied. So let's not, otherwise I think nothing that is related to the health of citizens can't be called and can't be put on a list called parafiscal violence. I think everything in the health care system, especially public health investments, and something we can be proud of that we have reached the standard we have and let's not tear it down in a way to say that we're going to save 500, 300 or 400 kuna. Of course, that you can talk about what the price of these reviews is, if it's possible for these checks to cost the same thing everywhere, to cost less than they cost now, so that it makes it easier for entrepreneurs, I agree with that. But to just move away, you said the system of education, who in the education system, what about kindergartens? Who's in touch with food and who's sharing food, say, in kindergartens. So you're going to raise girls who literally share that food, because we all know how kindergartens work. There's some food on the cart and aunts, that's what raises that food to share children. Are they going or not going to that exam? Okay, so I mean, tell me, it says those in the education and education system don't go. Whether school education is the same for those who share food. Look, I think that we need to be very careful about these decisions and making these laws, and I think that until the second reading, we can be more specific about the commons that will not be subject to the implementation of this law and that we can talk about what is the real and objective price that the minister will bring before that rule that you have mentioned, which will relieve and which will go in the direction of discharging the businessmen who are the bonds of such reviews. I think everything else we do is wrong. And that there will potentially be more damage than benefits. But when there's damage to this problem, to the problem of some kind of epidemic, to the problems of some infectious diseases that can occur, these are problems that are so expensive and so severe, that all of these savings that we're going to achieve through this law are actually ridiculous. And I urge that until the second reading, and we will do our best, as far as we can, as Parliamentarians and our club, to propose certain amendments to this law, to try to improve it, not to do any damage potentially to this bill, or risk, as proposed by the law, and certainly exists. That is our position, and in this direction we will act, until the second reading, we will also table amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44885	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44886	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, I generally support your debate especially in these areas where we have been warned of possible failures that will happen, that employees in the trade chains, and according to my knowledge, and I think we all know that in the peak months of the season they get a transfer in the morning, so they're being transferred from one department to another department, so it can't happen that all the employees in the trade chains don't have that sanitary exam because it's simply impossible to organise a job in such large systems especially during the tourist season, and that we're not sure if all our employees have a medical examination. One thing I want to warn you about is the provision of services in small households and those TVs. The O.P.G. has been released from this law. I really appeal, it's in my neighborhood in Istria, let's say a large number of such opgs where catering services are provided and I think that absolutely people who work in such OPGs have to pass because they work with food and give food to people. As far as the price is concerned, you said the price can be leveled, I agree with you because the price has to be leveled since these reviews are provided in public health offices of the county, so absolutely if the counties of the Republic of Croatia's Public Health Offices in the Republic of Croatia can't have the same price, I think I can And I don't see the need for the price to differ from county to county. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44887	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44888	I agree with everyone what you said to your colleague. And I'd like to point out once again, so the public health system in the Republic of Croatia is one of the few things we can be proud of. The system of our public health institutions, our public health institutions are doing a job that is more or less hidden from the eyes of the public and a little is being talked about, but indeed a good part of the work they do is essential to the health of the general population. And I would expect the Ministry of Health to come with a law that will further improve this entire system, further strengthen public health systems and our teaching institutions for public health, and not that the health departments propose laws that prevent these systems from achieving income in one part and 55 million kuna on so many public health institutions in the field of the Republic of Croatia will certainly reflect their incomes and their business, while they are expected to do this one job which is very painful, which in one good part is educational, which in one good part is visionary work, was always such that it comes from the Ministry of Health I simply can't believe. I think you should have done everything, I agree, cut whatever it is possible for you all teaching institutions because these are public institutions have to do it in a way that they don't earn it, but not in a way that they don't do it in some part of the school, so let's save someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44889	Thank you. The next debate is individual, colleagues of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44890	Thank you, Mr. President. So if we look at this introduction that explains the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public on communicable diseases, then this is about the Action Plan for Administrative Disposal of the Economy, and although there was an initiative from the Croatian Association of Employers, it should be noted that the Law was done by the Ministry of Health that the experts were doing it, a kind of mistake was made, perhaps it could be said what was being put into some kind of fiscal burden or discharge, and then there were further arguments. I agree that sanitary checks cannot be classified as parafiscal burdens, although they are seriously burdening the food industry, tourism and trade with their current price, and it is very good that prices are unified. During the e-consultation, certain directors and certain people in the county institutions have even suggested that there is a possibility that from that price proposed by the minister that they can lower the price in their county, means only for users in their county, but I would be careful there. We also need to be interested as healthcare professionals as to how much this costs the people and to see the purpose and frequency of some preventive examinations and surveillance with objective professional argument. And here's an example for you, so in one poor Slavonia county, another 130% of the financial value with HZZA contracted epidemiological teams is in place at work. So from HZZO four times a year contracts cca 2 million kuna, and from this another 2.7 million kuna is included. Another poor county near Zagreb has been incasing from the sanitary views of 3.5 million kuna. I agree with you that this health care facility should not be profitable, and I absolutely support it, but here's the thing, as far as health checks are concerned, but it's being reduced, for example, for healthcare professionals and school teachers. For preschool education, it shall not be abolished, so it remains in Article 26. So how's the health checkup going so I can get an extension as a doctor's sanitary book? An infectious or epidemiologist is obliged to listen to me listen to the auscultator on his lungs. It's such an archaic search that it's then charged to my clinic. And on the other hand, there are so many ways that epidemiological services can be taken seriously through a system of reporting infectious diseases with this problem of tuberculosis because it is a test of tuberculosis. And despite all these measures, we can say that the incidence of tuberculosis is close to 10 per 100 thousand inhabitants, this primarius Katalinić knows better than I do. So it wouldn't be right if chefs, pastries, waiters never looked at a microbiological chair. We should consider that we are a tourist country, we should keep awareness that they work with food, that they serve people. A large number of people are not specifically educated, and so when we do these hygiene minimas that are now every 4 years, it can be discussed whether this measure is therefore to be carried out every 6 months every 12 months, and it takes effect from 1 January 2019. But this, too, taking into account the intensity to be disbursed financially but again in coordination with professional services. So there is also the issue of the role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health as a roof institution, as the reference department of the Ministry of Health for Epidemiology. They're very consulted here. We have therefore seen a significant number of parliamentary representatives dealing with health issues have received certain information, certain letters from certain county public health institutions. So there are certain problems that can be detected, the question is therefore exceptions for family farms. So this is in line with the EU Directive on the stimulation of primary production. And narrowly from a professional perspective, I would agree with you, but the question of stimulating the local market to support direct producers that what they produce is that there is no possibility of buying, therefore, but only what they produce, whether it is about plants, whether it is about meat products and other food products. So it doesn't belong to the HasAP system. And then on that side, it's an exception, and for me it was also a little bit in some way a questionnaire. What is therefore a fact that unhygiene is still present, that it is necessary to work on education. Official opinions of the Croatian Epidemiological Society of Professional Companies may also need to be asked, therefore, both the medical chamber and the medical assembly, and to see possible for this dispute for about 6 months or a year that if it has not been done so far and that this is then clarified until the second reading. But I certainly agree with that, so we are a tourist country, there have been talks about these certificates, it is again an issue of the EU acquis. So what is a certificate from Bulgaria or Belgium, it is also true in Croatia. The Croatian certificate is also valid in other countries, regardless of what we can be suspicious of some EU Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44891	Thank you. There are two replicas, Turina-Djuric's first distinguished counterpart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44892	We agree more or less on everything. And I didn't say I shouldn't, at any point said I shouldn't make adjustments in this law, especially if we're talking about money. So the money, in my opinion, could have been solved that way. And we've heard ourselves that, so there's a big difference between county and county, from institutions to institutions how it's charged and how much it's charged. So if somewhere it can be done for 150 kuna, then I don't know why it doesn't seem in some other place the same for so much money. Of course, we need to help the economies as much as possible to dissipate them but to stop them if we already do, or if we are doing a selection, then I think we need to know exactly, know exactly where we are doing the selection and whether we are able to get between the mass of those workers who are now to be excluded from performing the sanitary examination whether we are able to carry out the controls, whether they are really working or not in their workplace in contact with food that is not packed, exactly as it says. So that's it, that's some doubt. If we can determine that correctly and we can lower the price and bring the price to that kind of cost of rentability I would say those services, I agree. And it will certainly be a downsizing for our entrepreneurs. But let's selectively say you, you and you just won't, so that's how it happens with us some of the entrepreneurs are going to use it nicely in a way that reduces their costs, whether someone else is going to benefit from it, I'm not going to talk about it here. But the damage to the potential, not the damage, but the risks of all this could unfortunately be too great because it is human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44893	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44894	So here's very short, I agree with you, so, but again, if you look at, say, and as far as these big malls are concerned, where many of you work, you'll agree with me below the price they deserve for their work, but I still think whoever works on the butcher shop won't go there right now on the register to repack. So that's where it's determined that those who deal with packed food with packed cosmetic products are excluded. So there's a kind of reduction, and actually there's the biggest insurrection that I can partially understand and understand by the director of the county offices, they're afraid and they'll certainly have that extra income reduced, they won't be completely removed but they'll be reduced. So there is also a question of sanitary inspection by the Ministry of Health which should be supervised that things don't happen that someone who shares the circle to go to the register or to repack or vice versa. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44895	Second replica, esteemed colleague Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44896	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague can see that this debate, we all agree, and we all have the same doubts here. As far as the O.P.G. is concerned, okay, I can agree, it's just fine until something happens. When it happens, then we'll all break our heads together and look for the guilty. So it's about people. About serving food to people. When it comes to schools, kindergartens in this law are not included. I'll tell you like this. Primary schools, let's be realistic, all together, so kids when they come to the first grade of elementary school, teachers with them at the time of the marenda, although the marenda may be organized at school, helps them to make a sandwich, be with that food, etc. And we can't pretend that's not the case. The kids come from kindergarten, they can't make a sandwich, it helps them, so teachers in direct contact with food. Maybe in high school they don't have to go to the sanitary room, maybe for the truth because then really teachers don't participate in the diet of children, but in elementary school, teachers participate in the diet of children, especially when it comes to day-long teaching, you know that teachers are present, or teachers. When we're talking, the last time you said, around malls, I guarantee you that the situation is happening, your colleague stays sick that morning, the head of the food department shifts from one department to another department, depending on where he's missing his workforce. It's 100% the way it is. And now we're gonna risk someone not going through a health checkup? We can risk it until something happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44897	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44898	So, maybe they're moving because they have a report in the sanitary book, maybe if it's not found in the sanitary book it won't work. The question possibly for the first four classes of elementary school, let the profession say, therefore, but the sanitary examination of teachers and health professionals, the one prescribed by the mandatory regulation, is exclusively for your pulmonary tuberculosis, earphones. So whether it should still be done now, whether it should be changed, whether this should be extended to preschool institutions and possibly for the first four classes where there is a whole day's stay, maybe, but here's a profession about it, so there's a time from first to second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44899	Next individual debate, distinguished colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44900	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry I'm late, but I'll only answer Mr. Cellic right away. Therefore, it is true that the directors of the Institute of Public Health addressed all addresses, also addressed the Croatian Doctor's Union, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Society of Epidemiology of the Croatian Medical Assembly, and they all gave answers. And I'll tell you, for example. what the medical chamber said. Therefore, the Croatian medical chamber considers completely inappropriate health services such as a health card check where a healthcare professional provides a health care service to the user, while doing laboratory equipment and consumables for which he neatly delivers the bill and displays it as health care work, it also does not satisfy the assumptions of non-taxable givings in terms of which the financial regulations recognise it. They therefore propose to exclude it from the Register of Non-taxable Taxations of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, when making decisions, the legislator should bear in mind that the adoption of a new solution primarily does not endanger the existing epidemiological situation, which is of paramount importance both for the health of the population of the Republic of Croatia and for Croatia as a tourist destination, and does not question the sustainability of the preventive medicine system. And that's what it says in e-consultation. But of course, our ministry finds it parafiscal. I ask all those who are colleagues and who are doctors, how can the established health care be a parafiscal imposition? And do you, for example? you know that this will really compromise the activity of something that is our public health care, which is provided by Croatian public health services, the county health care office where this money includes funding certain other preventive activities such as environmentalists that are not actually in the HZZO system. What's a fact, it's that we've come into a situation where we think that about fifty million kunas will give us the opportunity to reinvest, and that's how we're going to start the growth of the private sector. I mean, that's bullshit. We are directly with these fifty million kunas endangering public health, endangering the sustainability of these public health institutions because for one Sisak it means 3 and a half million kuna a year. Don't forget the 48 and a half million euros that went when HBOR did it as you could hear today and put it in the bottomless bag without a problem, Todorovic at 12 months as a loan from HBOR. There's the money. It's not money to take away and endanger our epidemiological situation because these 50 million kunas will mean nothing when we have a situation that's unfortunate. You don't know about these people's work so far. These people are working in silence, conducting a screening of the truckers, the parasites, those who can actually threaten their epidemics and us as a tourist country, as one destination in which we have never had such incidents before. Think of Spain, a great tourist country, very often followed by a picture that you really have to watch out there because you can get infected, that's gone, you've had enough three, four incidents, but that means that these people work hard, from the north to the south, along our entire coast. That's why I think it went too quickly here, it was primarily thought that it was some institutions that just collect some kind of coercion and didn't think about what could be the consequence. When you have a private, he's in e-consultation, for example. I wrote what if I had a worker and all of them had to make a sanitary book at the beginning of the season. Yeah, but he's gonna make money with those workers. The tourists will make money because they had an impeccable service where there was no incident, one incident is enough for the hotel to close next year. I'll also look back at the O.P.G.s. It is completely incomprehensible that the law says that it will be exceptional, that it will not be subject to those who provide catering services in the household and in the family holding. My men! I can't believe someone put it in the law and that it goes through and that someone who wrote it hasn't seen it. So, rural land, rural tourism, something we want to talk about, and what we need to talk about, people who are in the OPG, who are every day going to be in touch with all those products that they're going to produce on their OPG don't need a sanitary book. I think it's completely incomprehensible to me. And that's why I'd just like to say, so the minister is hoping to lay down the rules and even the prices. They are now 250 to 500 kuna, they must be even. Of course there must be a possibility of that county that can afford it, I can lower prices, of course, just have to be some top price. It can't be 100 percent more, we have to fight for it. And I'd like to say, so it's completely irrelevant, means that certain groups of healthcare professionals who are, so nurses aren't listed here and should be listed. Laboratory technicians, doctors, all those who went through their education, pharmacists, for example, go through some kind of education and know what calliology means, what it means to be infected, and how much regularity and hygiene matter. They don't have to go through that course, that's fine, that's how you have to accept it. But you also need to think carefully about which groups should be released and whether it should be once a year. So this law must not be dictated by the HUPs. So employers aren't the ones who have to. This will be seen as one imposition, this should be dictated by the profession, and so far the profession has shown that Croatia is a safe country without major epidemics because public health is working well and that is why we are fighting here today for public health and financing, meaning this public health care and through this part of the profits that can be achieved on the free market. Let's not ruin it by just thinking about this as an intrusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44901	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Ana Comparić-Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44902	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues Strenja-Linić, I fully support your debate. I realized today that we who come from the Primorje-Gorski County, here we three colleagues here absolutely agree and advocate the same thing and I'm surprised that our secretary of state who also comes from the Primorje-Gorskina doesn't understand us. Here's what I'm really surprised at. Here you are, I don't know, I don't understand. [[President: Because he's a man.]] So you are really right and we are a tourist country, but more important than being a tourist country and living in a large part of tourism are therefore important for our citizens who also live in our country and live all year round. And kids who go to school and all that needs to be considered. Let's not let ourselves break what we've come up with, and we have a very good standard, very little epidemics, and we're doing a pretty good job. It is not because employers are looking for a reduction, and what the colleague said from 55 million at the annual level in the assessment that, therefore, what is not specific about us is therefore some infectious diseases that will be present among children or among the general population. I really appeal once again to think carefully about another reading and to change some things in this law after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44903	There's no response to the replica, then we move on to the other one. It's a distinguished colleague of Turina-Đuric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44904	My colleague Linic, I'm sorry, you were late for this part of the exposure, when the club exposure was. I spoke on behalf of our club, and it was somewhat similar to that of the bill. And I'm just going to repeat what you said, and here are three MPs from the Primorje-Gorski County, we have to fight to improve that public health system. I find these institutions extremely challenging. A little while ago, a colleague in a waste debate said we have three, I'd say four major challenges in this century that we're going to deal with the most. It's waste, it's waste water, it's climate change, and that's what I'd add to migration. Those are huge risks. Right in the health system, right in a system that needs to be prevented, that has to take care of people's health and that has to have a vision of how to do it. If we are certain procedures that have reached the standard in Croatia by which many in the world have already highlighted us to crash without quality criteria, without really only the profession and doctors, only the epidemiologists I think can say something about it. The rest of us are, but the ones who said something about it like you read said it wasn't very good. Let's see again what really in this law to fix until the second reading so that they don't potentially do more damage than benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44905	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44906	I'll only mention one more time, so applying this law as you... This law as first Mr. Plazonic, who comes from our county, has come to a law that has been cooked for a very long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can see that actually the representatives of the Department of Public Health have been trying so that I have memos that they referred to the chairman of the Health Committee. I don't think he's Mr. Chorusic anymore, so Karamark, then the former minister and all. So that law has been cooked for a certain time. And I think it's primarily what happened in the end to the concessions to certain structures that they want in some way and to make it cheap in that way. Work can't be cheap anymore. The work, that waiter who was paid anyway, must be adequately paid, and not that now and this imposition is considered to be something that keeps his work together. The work of doctors and health professionals must also not be underestimated, this is serious work, which is the result of long-term good work, the legacy of an Andrija Stampar, who introduced the real concept of public health in Croatia, public health, which is primarily based on prevention that was in the past and today is an epidemic. But what you didn't say, one of the threats will be public health and chronic non-infectious diseases, but at this point we have to consider that this is a law that needs to be meant for better safety, not for the benefit of employers, who would want to reduce parafiscal intrusion in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44907	And the third replica of the esteemed colleague Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44908	Thank you, Mr. President. So what you've read from the Medical Chamber, that's a typical political response. So the decision on the list of non-taxable duties, and these are not exclusively parafiscal intrusions, is the response of the Medical Chamber. Here we're discussing whether we should review the... every six months or every 12 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That chamber didn't answer. And I'm going to repeat here, so the debate is the same on the left and on the right. Microbiological tests are not and must not be a fiscal burden, and where does it say so? I didn't see it anywhere in any document that says microbiological tests are a fiscal burden. If we're going to work at the hospital, we won't be taking care of our finances. I don't know where we live then. So the question is either six months or 12 months. If tomorrow says every 12 months, every 12 months. But we can't ignore the fact that something costs money. On the other hand, whether directors and reference departments by the Croatian Institute of Public Health should, if this measure is reduced, develop other preventive activities in order to further educate certain categories of employees and raise awareness of hygiene, both in person and in hygiene. So it's not just an overview of the calliology that's the only measure. There are a lot of other measures, this profession can cut better than me, and then you should see a definitive decision by the second reading in line with the profession, not how the Croatian Employers' Association imposes or how the Medical Chamber answers something in the political context.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44909	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44910	I'm sorry, colleague, that you understood the response of the Medical Chamber by political response, because the Chamber made it clear that what the healthcare professionals did, took a sample, planted it, used some kind of... used the time, used the apparatus, the time of the doctor and the time of the sister, that it was a non-parafiscal load, and it was concrete... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, you obviously did not read the law, or, in the section of this assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by this law, it says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in session, etc. On 27 July 2016, the Commission adopted a decision on the list of non-taxable duties to be abolished or reduced in 2016 and 2017, etc. in charge of the ministries whose responsibility it is to do so, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The list of non-taxable duties in Annex 1 to the Decision shall include an education fee for the hygiene of personnel working in direct contact with food and medical examinations of the callionicity of persons to be under medical supervision. So that's directly said, that this needs to be reduced because these are the duties that should be taken down and that this will also reduce the price of work. There he is, I'm sorry, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44911	Thank you. And now it is time for the final address of the promoter, State Secretary Zeljko Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44912	... Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Here I am going to touch these discussions of yours for which I thank you and all those who have been frequent, and I especially thank my colleagues from the Primorje-Gorski County. However, I will try in my brief address to rule out any excessive emotional, pathetic and similar things and only talk about information that is truly evidence and that falls within the domain of medical science as such. But before that, since this ministry, including myself, is somehow being accused or indicated that we have changed something at once, I would only briefly repeat the chronology of these events, so in April 2015, I was not a member of the Parliament, nor of the ministry, a national reform programme was adopted and it was then a reduction of parafiscal burdens. The name was subsequently changed, as it is not considered to be an adequate name for administrative redundancies of the economy. In June 2015, there is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce these burdens and with the reduction targets in 2016. In June 2015, a committee for the monitoring and implementation of the reduction of these commitments was established, in July 2015, the first draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which was partly only discussed in the Croatian Parliament, and I believe that some colleagues from Rijeka from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County were in this Croatian Assembly at that time. And December 2016, annual plan of normative activities for 2017 and reference in the procedure in the second quarter, which is right now in 2017, this law, works after a depth analysis. When I say deep analysis, then I just have to mention one fact, that we as a ministry formed an interdisciplinary commission and I would ask all those who participated to listen well to who they were and what the interdisciplinary commission consisted of. This was primarily the Croatian Epidemiological Society of the Croatian Medical Assembly, then, the Association of Employers in Health, Association, Croatian Employers' Association, and the Public Health Institute network headed by the Croatian Institute of Health. These were the participants of this committee who had a deep analysis of what we proposed today with this first draft and first reading. Secondly, which is very important to me, we don't end anything here except for those categories we said. So there's also a sanitary review, a sanitary minimum and a hygiene minimum education just doesn't take place twice a year anymore but is spent once a year. That's the only difference that matters. I am not going to talk about us being the only country in Europe that has sanitary checks, is that it might be for some or surprising or a little strange, but Croatia is the only country that has sanitary checks as an obligation for those categories that this law nominated for these reviews. Therefore, I do not believe that there has been a significant increase in any epidemiologicality in other EU countries because they do not have these sanitary checks. This is likely due to evidence that sanitary examinations themselves as such have no direct influence on the reduction of all possible epidemic complications and epidemic situations. And what is important and what all European countries insist on, it is the responsibility of employers and also those in the OPG, because if anything happens to any OPG, then this OPG can close and put the key in the lock, and they are very much responsible for their work and the responsibility of the employees themselves. In many countries, employers take good care of their employees and send them themselves for checks, and each employee is obliged if he feels any health problems that could affect his work that he does to contact his employer to direct him to further searches. Therefore, I would most like to argue that we enlighten and raise awareness of our citizens' needs for such reviews, whether they are mandatory or not, and I say for the time being, for the time being, they are required once a year in a large part of our citizenship, and I do not see any significant differences between once and twice a year except for what has been heard today, and this is in the financial result, or financial savings for our employers that I think we have to think about too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44913	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the People against Infectious Diseases, First Reading, P.Z. No. 165. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the People against Infectious Diseases" is hereby adopted." Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 86 votes in favour and 44 votes are abstentions to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44916	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues again. This draft proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act on human consumption extends the requirements for so-called monitoring or Croatian monitoring of human consumption water health law, by introducing a risk assessment. The draft law also extends the obligations of legal persons carrying out the public water supply activity to establish a risk management system instead of the current self-control system for human consumption, based on a risk analysis system and critical control points. Next, the submission of a request to the Ministry of Health for the purpose of approving water safety plans for human consumption, registration for registration in the register of legal persons carrying out the public water supply activity run by the Ministry of Health and finally the obligation to publish updated data and to notify the public of the health of water for human consumption. Here, given the weather, this is just one brief clarification to this draft.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44917	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44918	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the proposer. So the Water Act for Human Consumption, here's a proposal for this law that expands, we've heard a few introductory words now, there's an extension of the requirements for monitoring or monitoring the health regularity of the water for human consumption. It is worth saying here that we had before the name of drinking water or drinking water which suggested the level of quality, but here we now have water for human consumption, so we easily took over so... /The speaker speaks English./... where it is a little suggested that it is mostly water used for everything and then perhaps for drink. But we have heard that the obligations of legal persons carrying out the public water supply activity are extended and that the establishment of a system of risk management and crisis, so instead of the current system of self-control of human consumption for human consumption based on a system of risk analysis of critical control points, what has actually been known as HasAP is now going on a new system. There is then a registration for the purpose of enrolment in the register of legal persons carrying out the public water supply activity, of course run by the Ministry of Health and the obligation to publish updated data and to notify the public of the health of water for human consumption. I would say, of course, that so far, it is a mandatory system of HASAP which is a legal person, i.e. water or utility companies which have been engaged in water supply, to be accredited and, of course, it also contains the identification of the risk factor, so it becomes a big question why there is a need for an urgent amendment of this law, i.e. by an emergency procedure, to tear down one system and bring the obligation to implement another, and in fact we do not have a clear picture of what it really means, and neither of those who are concerned by the procedure, so these plumbers or communals have a clear picture of it. What I learned from communication with such legal persons is that it has been announced that it will be possible to discuss it more in detail in September, but we see it not happening but it is wanted, because, without quality communication, it will go into the adoption of this law. The expert commission is also worth saying here, so for the expert committee to approve the water safety plans that are now required by those legal persons to also present a risk assessment of the water monitoring programme for human consumption consists of 5 members. They are two representatives of the ministry, 1 representative of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, 1 representative of Croatian Waters and 1 representative of the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Antidoping. What can be seen is that there are virtually no representatives from the water sector, so here are the things that relate to the water economy system, or the water supply system, but we do not have a member in the commission who would actually meet the other members, what certain measures mean, how they are implemented, what technical implications they have, and I think it is a major failure and that it is definitely necessary to change such composition, or in some way to have a representative of the so-called resistor who, or those to whom the law itself refers. Okay, we have to say that both surveillance and system control is expanding to the bottom area as well as we could see. So it's the same big problem we don't know how to solve. Of course, the intensity to cover up to what is better security is good, but we have so-called today. It is now unclear how to implement a risk management plan for the entire land area, which can then be far beyond the control of not only this company but practically and more units of local self-government. Therefore, I think that this topic, therefore, deserves a more quality discussion, that consultation should be conducted with those to whom the law applies and therefore all these details can be discussed and that this deadline can still be stated as one that suggests such urgent action and can be achieved. In addition, if it is exceeded in a few weeks, it is important that the process goes on in a quality way and comes to a solution that will ensure quality implementation. Because it certainly brings some solutions to the shortcut and that many things remain open in the air and that it is not clear to those to whom the law applies and what and how to act is not good. Here, thank you very much. So on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, we would not support this urgent process of passing this law but rather suggest that it be conducted in two readings in a better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44919	Thank you. There's no replicas, so we're going to another debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44920	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the promoters, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would say that the text of the proposal for this law that we have in front of us today contains a statement on the compatibility of the proposal with the EU acquis resulting in the full compliance of this law with the provisions of primary and secondary sources of EU law. The importance of this law should not be particularly highlighted, given that it is water intended for human consumption and therefore includes all water which is in its original state or after processing intended for drinking, cooking, preparation of food or other household needs independent of its origin and whether it originates from a system of public water supply, tanks, bottles or water containers, and any water used in the food production industries for the purpose of producing, processing, preserving or placing on the market of products or substances intended for human consumption unless the competent authority determines that the quality of water cannot affect the health regularity of food in its final form. We all know that water is the wealth of our country, since we have clean and drinking water to take care of and protect it, to take care of it. Environmental protection and drinking water supply become the main problems and challenge for the sustainable development of our civilization. Drinking water becomes a major resource in the 21st century due to the growth of people on earth as well as the increased water needs resulting from a rise in living standards. It is necessary to distinguish drinking water from technological water in industry and agriculture. The drinking water must meet stricter chemical and bacteriological standards. It is good to point out again that the applicable Water Law for Human Consumption regulates the health soundness of water for human consumption. The competent authority for the implementation of the law and the way in which the European Commission reports on the implementation of the law of legal persons carrying out water supply for human consumption in the Republic of Croatia, the way in which the reporting is handled in the event of a derogation of the parameters for the verification of human consumption water compliance, monitoring and other official control of water health rules for human consumption and their financing, and in order to protect human health from the adverse effects of any water pollution on human consumption and to ensure the health of water for human consumption in the area of the Republic. As this bill states before us, the proposal extends the requirements for water health monitoring by introducing a risk assessment for human consumption. The obligations of legal persons carrying out public water supply activities relating to the establishment of a risk management system and crisis instead of the current self-control system for human consumption based on a risk analysis system for critical control points shall be extended. The application shall be submitted to the Ministry of Health for the purpose of approving water safety plans for human consumption, registration for registration in the register of legal persons carrying out the public water supply activities conducted by the Ministry of Health, the publication of updated data and the notification to the public of the health of water for human consumption. The establishment of an expert committee to approve water safety plans for human consumption and risk assessment in the water monitoring programme for human consumption, as well as the definition of the tasks it conducts, and for the purpose of implementing the provisions of the law, is also defined. According to the proposal, the law also complements provisions relating to official laboratories which are required for the purpose of authorisation to possess wholesale reports and measurement uncertainty for methods which are not accredited. The possibility of contracting between authorised laboratories as well as the power of the minister to determine a measured or more laboratory is prescribed if there is no authorised laboratory in the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of analysis. The requirements of the water test shall also be laid down at water stations and must be met by legal persons carrying out the public supply activity. Obligations of the county and the City of Zagreb related to consumer information are complemented and in the event of water disagreement for human consumption. Following all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44921	Thank you. One replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44922	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maximchuk, I am pleased with the intention of the law itself, in your presentation you have confirmed your desire to advance the system. What, here I would return, I had here a break in and warned about the situation we have in my Vukovar-Srijem County, which we have in the village of Komletnci. Where when we went through all the components actually don't work through this year, what did we find? We have determined that the Vukovar-Srijem County has been saving funds and has not carried out a health check. That a water-operated company, it's a Vinkovci water line, they simply didn't inform the population that they had water that was loaded with heavy metals and especially arsenic. In the end, when it all came out together, no one went, to say, to explore the cause and to seek a quick solution, the citizens were ultimately the law which, I looked at, stood bounds and in this law, we're going to step up a little bit, we're going to raise to that level, but neither was the law. So neither the less standard than this, we didn't make him make the bodies that must be, which are public bodies, have to actually be enforcers of that law and not that we have to control whether they're even implementing the law. Citizens, actually residents of the Comletians, are supplied with drinking water today from the tanker. So what do we put it back on? Let's go back to the battle run by the waterhole, that's the whole system, so the water-watering new system that has in the Sikirevs water supply, who's going to manage? Is there going to be a water line from Vinkovci or is it going to be a water line from Slavonski Brod? And in that battle of theirs, who died? Citizens were killed. And that's why I encourage this debate, not only to pass a good law, but to implement even the old law and not this new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44923	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44924	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Panenic, yes, I know the situation of course with the Komletins and the polluted water, but I must say that Croatia has a great privilege when it comes to one of the richest countries in Europe and the world, but we know that in Lica, the Zagrebans also drink proper health water, but in Slavonia this water is the least healthy water. Of course, not to run away from responsibility, all those who have led to the fact that for years it has been drinking polluted water from that water line, should and should respond. Therefore, in this bill, and you said yourself, in the past stand must be controlled or monitored by that water, I believe that they will be strengthened, so here we have a risk assessment meaning by adopting this regulation by assessing the risk, will be controlled more often by water in places where it is not healthy, where, on more than one occasion, it was correct, there will be controlled much less, I sincerely hope that in your county the quality of water will be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44925	Final address on behalf of the applicant, State Secretary Željko Plazonić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44926	Thank you very much. Let me just say very briefly, first of all, our proposal for a law is to comply with the European Directive, and I must say that in this proposed law, we have made one flexible adjustment to domestic legislation, EU legislation, in a way that ensures timely transposition of this EU directive. It's first and foremost. On the other hand, I think the risk assessment itself will have a double effect. The first is to reduce the costs there that have been carried out and which are not really necessary because the risk assessment will say that this is really not so often needed, and there is a positive risk assessment to be high there will be done more often and adequate measures will be taken to protect the population from the consumption of such water. On the other hand, we still need to draw up detailed plans on the application of this Regulation which are otherwise in line with the guidelines for the quality of water for drinks of the World Health Organization, and with that directive that I have already mentioned. Therefore, I expect that only this law will ensure that the control of drinking water or human consumption is significantly better and more correct for our citizens than it has ever been before, and there di finds increased amounts of any harmful, or unnecessary substances in time to react and protect our population from such use of such water. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44927	You're a little late, but good. You must during the debate. Comrade Panenić, you've reached out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44928	Thank you very much. Here I'd like to just, you were just talking about a risk assessment. What is one of the important risks is exactly the political risk that we have, because there you have with me in the county of the mayor who was from your party, who was also the water manager who caused this, who ultimately in all the bodies that are related to the water economy took part in a very good problem. You have the president of the County Assembly who is from your party, who is the current director of this particular company where the problem has arisen. That's what I'm telling you because you're going to have a problem right now when you need to sanction you're going to have to sanction the people who come from your party. Will you have the strength to do that? I mean, it's a question that's very relevant. It was updated a month and a half ago. A little bit around here right now, people are expecting something to move. But what will you do? Are you going to publicly call and accuse people who are in such high places, and in fact whose carelessness or deliberate failure depends on the fate of people who are just in trouble with polluted water? I'm aware, and here's a colleague who said, "We have a problem with that water, we have water everywhere." However, burdened with heavy metals, the whole Pannonian swimming pool, and just lucky to find a quality spring. But that doesn't mean that in future times again, someone will not deliberately or accidentally compromise the health of the population, and then we'll actually see how the heroes who are going to rise up against the people who are supposed to support them are going to act in accordance with the law that we need to vote this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44929	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44930	I have to admit I didn't know which member of which party in your neighborhood, nor do I have to admit that with regard to the adoption of this bill of law. And I believe that any violation committed in the state of Croatia will be adequate and sanctioned if I am asked. That's what this is about, because otherwise it wouldn't be very good to see who the party is, whether it's because they or they are in power to implement some legal measures. I don't think that's the essence of our current government, nor is it our intention, nor is it in favor of some democratically developed society as such. As far as arsenics are concerned, it's important not only to find how many arsenics there are in the water, because it comes from the ground. You probably know that very well, especially from these soils where you live. The important thing is that he's not more than 50 micrograms per litre, because that's what they said we'd let the quantities that could be. And don't forget that by cooking rice, you have a lot more arsenic that you consume, and you don't know it at all, and you probably never thought about how rice is adequately prepared to reduce the percentage of arsenic that exists in rice. There's only that much. If necessary, I can explain how rice is cooked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44931	Thank you. Second replica, colleague Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44932	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament, if I were to beg or ask, since water supply is a rather complex interdisciplinary problem, so are practically everything around us that surrounds us is disciplinary and it is very important that there is inter-resorial, cooperation between disciplines. However, this commission, which I was talking about in my presentation, which does not contain a single member from the water economy sector, is from a sector that understands what they really are. So, hydro-geological characteristics, cups, wells, karst springs, occasional opacity, temperature oscillation, quality oscillation, then water processing, then water distribution that can also be complex. Disinfection problems, therefore, guaranteeing microbiological quality and a lot of what is related to this problem, thus ensuring a quality medical proper drinking water for citizens. And now here's what I'm interested in is how, are you willing to accept the suggestion to change this commission since it would certainly ensure a better quality of implementation of these regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44933	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44934	Thank you very much. This is how we have so far felt that such a member should not be included in this committee, but we will consider your proposal very seriously and nothing prevents us from making such a decision if one such member is to be added to this commission if it wants to go to an increase in quality and safety for the use of drinking water with us. I don't think that's a problem. As for the ministry and any correction of the next reading commission that will be in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44935	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act for Human Consumption, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 155. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act for human consumption is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 119 votes in favour, 1 abstentions and 16 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44938	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, as the president has said, are before you two laws, one is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, and another is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of an Agency for Hydrocarbons. The 2014 Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products provides for the establishment and implementation of measures for the safe and reliable supply of oil and oil products, and is established by the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products as a public institution which is an obligation to provide mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products and which is authorised to form and sell those mandatory stocks. Furthermore, the Law establishing the carbon agency, also from 2014, established the same names of the agency, as a public institution for the purpose of providing systematic, operational support in hydrocarbon research and exploitation activities, as well as permanent carbon dioxide management in geological structures. In the light of the laws established by the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products, and the Agency for Hydrocarbons are legal persons with public authority, established by the Republic of Croatia and financed from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Agency for Hydrocarbons and HANDA, within their activities, are subject to a processuption, the adoption of these laws will allow for the accession of the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products, and the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which will ultimately result in the rationalisation of business, optimization of the process and the organisational structure. Also, according to the recommendations of the EU Council, as of July 2015, when it relates among other things to increasing public sector efficiency and sustainable public finances, a national reform programme for 2017 following those recommendations has been developed. In the context of achieving the objectives of the National Reform Programme for 2017 and in the context of greater efficiency and transparency of the public sector, it is necessary to streamline the system of legal persons with public powers. In line with the above, it is necessary to connect legal persons with a similar area of action, into one legal person, and this is only the first step in joining energy agencies into a united agency. In the next step, the accession of HROTA, i.e. the Croatian Energy Market Operator, will be realized. This will result in the adoption of these laws in such a way that the Agency for Hydrocarbons will take over the jobs, employees, equipment and financial resources of Croatia's mandatory supply of oil and petroleum products, which is estimated to contribute to a rational organisation, efficient business, and resulting in a total reduction in costs. Synergic effects will result in a reduction of management staff, as well as a rationalisation of staff in support functions, and a reduction of other costs through the rationalisation of purchases, which relate to the rental and use of various services, which will ultimately reduce the total annual costs, estimated at 2.2 million kuna per year. The implementation of these laws will also achieve a higher level of efficiency of work in the field of energy in the Republic of Croatia, a one-stop shop gathering, as well as more successful human potential management. In view of the fact that those legal entities are already operating in the same location, this means, from 31.3.2017 and from the point of view of additional savings for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, formal accession should be made as soon as possible. Taking into account all of the above, the need to adopt these two laws is clear. Finally, to mention that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons has received 1 amendment, it is the matter of technical nature, so the amendment of the Committee on Law and the Proposer accepts this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44939	Thank you. Okay, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first came out on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44940	Dear Secretary of State, of course, that this, the amendments to the two laws, which we already see through several national reform programmes were contained, and everyone's clear reduction in the number of agencies and all other bodies, is in fact a relief, procedure, efficiency of the operation of the entire system, reduction of costs, that was also the goal of Zoran Milanovic's government, was also the goal in the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, and now the goal is that I am glad that you started with this initiative, that you did not wait according to the reform programme 12 months 2017 to make an analysis. I think the analyses have already been made, and this in energy, was an integral part of my ministry, and it's clear that we have an excessive number of agencies. I am truly sorry that we are not in the last government when I was a minister having the opportunity to change the laws themselves more, because we would definitely put what is now proposed on the agenda and, of course, some other agencies. What we must certainly confirm, which is that it is not a problem in the affairs they are doing, because they are also established for certain tasks that have become clear at one point that someone has to do without having capacity in the ministry or that for some formal reasons it cannot be an integral part of the ministry. Of course, it's challenging in energy, which is a problem that shakes us all the time, putting us together, humanizing, looking for people who by these coefficients that we now have to act effectively. That's why one of the reasons was, and the establishment of the agency was to increase the coefficients to get quality people, but it turned out that it wasn't enough either, that the agencies really got stuck and became self-inflicted. Of course one time it's the one you started with, and that's a formal change of law and a permanent removal of those obstacles. The second time that can, which is to connect joint functions, we talked about it on a parliamentary committee where agencies don't have to have each of their own accounting, where they don't have to have similar service things that would be prescribed for each of them, but it can be connected to a centre of shared services where we could then rationalise at a much faster pace, and what might eventually happen is that really only the head man of the agency remains to which the change of law and disappearance remains. The initiative that has been launched in any case and should be well thought out, refers to the unification of all energy agencies so as to call them within one energy agency where it could then systematically connect and monitor the ministry's policy, so that we do not have a situation like we have now, where sharing through CROTE through other certain agencies, there has been a non-recognition of malignancies here, which now bring us an increase in renewable energy sources that increase our electricity, the price of electricity for citizens, for our businesses, and where the search for and needle in a hayst layer becomes virtually difficult or what is certainly possible in some cases and impossible. Each took over one piece, each of them has a part that is protected enough to really have the minister engage himself so that all these components can be picked up so that he can explain to the Croatian people why a particular situation has occurred. What is even more important in the work of these agencies where we have gathered experts should certainly think about it and how to politically separate them from their respective ministry. Often, the agencies themselves, regardless of the scope of their powers, are not independent in their work and cannot give an independent warning of the problem they have identified by their analyses. Now imagine here's the secretary of state you are that your agency that will now be the Agency for Hydrocarbons points to a problem that has been created I don't know about the storage of petroleum products where it's visible that there are certain interests that should be prevented. And they have the fear of coming to you or the fear of coming to the minister saying if I can't tell whether politics is behind it or whether it's just negligence. And until we encourage these people to have certain mandates that they can publicly point to the problems that arise, that the ministry will then access the necessary laws or conduct certain investigative actions, until then the agencies themselves will not be able to function for which they are created. The government's plan is ambitious to reduce the number of such bodies by 20 percent, therefore we expect more and more proposals to appear here in this assembly. One of the proposals we discussed is... which has long lost its function and awaits probably the same quick change of law. I know it's a thought that's already been adopted and will soon appear on the benches of parliamentary deputies. I will give you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and support to implement these amendments to the laws and any changes to the laws that will lead towards and rationalise, but not only rationalising that it is financial but to achieve the efficiency of action, to reduce the burdens that our entrepreneurs especially those who have gone into certain energy projects and have encountered administrative problems without knowing whose role is in which part is specific and so many have abandoned. But we also see that we have those who have made very good use of the situation and mission and your ministry and all agencies to prevent the energy sector from continuing to be a place to be manipulated, where it will benefit, where lasting damage will appear to Croatian citizens. Is finally here talking about the pause we were looking for and took yesterday was in it so it's no longer a matter of whether there's going to be an increase in fees or not, but the thing is that I'm afraid someone would come and say it has to be increased without anyone saying what the real reason is. Is by the reaction I had from the HNS that exploded, it was as if I personally signed contracts that are now the result of an increase in the fee to which you as state secretary, your ministry and government will have to say we need to raise the electricity price. It's not your fault either, but let's not let the current government become guilty in the eyes of the people because it didn't clearly identify those who created such a situation by their work. Therefore, we need to be honest about this and not only should we be guided by the current not knowing the coalition potential of HDZ and HNS, so it is clear that the head of the HNS reacted very badly every time the facts were put against him and where he did not want to admit that regardless of whether there were more or less megawatts, whether he was reducing and still the damage occurred in billions. And from one good idea that we have through the energy system, through these agencies that we're struggling to have favourable conditions, to have renewable energy sources, to have social benefits, we've only created conditions for private benefit. And I hope that here are your employees at the agency and your ministry who will have the strength to fight that we no longer have to discuss these situations in this esteemed home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44941	We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44942	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Panenic, you mentioned this part that is still not well placed by the public because disinformation is being placed and this is a problem that my colleague Bacic could talk about, I see that he appears, he is well aware of, because obviously when the new majority was created he is well aware of in the distribution of the place and these are renewable energy sources. Can you explain a little to me as former minister what was going on here, which is why these 42 June subsidies went to a foreign investor to harm our people, so people who reported that solar mini power plants would put solar plants on their solar houses couldn't get into the quota? So once upon a time, mostly down in us in Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagorje, the Zadar hinterland, down below, the wind power plants appeared which means we subsidize 42 limes per kilowatt, which is a huge amount in a billion kuna this year it seems to me that Croatia should pay that damage. How did that happen? You explain that if the people hears once again, if the people are watching, I don't know if HTV has fulfilled its obligations and whether it is now being transferred to 4 programs or when you're talking, it may be excluded as in recent times, as in the directive on HTV, but it doesn't matter, there are social networks, so we'll try to transmit the current, what about renewable energy sources, which decision, when, and the Secretary of Shiljeg, he can't publicly say this at this point because of the collective relations within the deployment within the ministry. Therefore, here I expect you to explain to the public what this is about, which is why the collection of electricity, to whom money and why this money that was to be served for the purpose of public interest goes to foreign investors in the pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44943	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44944	Dear fellow Bully, let's be honest with the Secretary of State first. I remember the first time I was in this esteemed House as a minister, and then my colleagues from these positions told me, but the secretary of state has nothing to do with you, or the minister has nothing to do with you, is in your ministry, the problem you have to deal with, but the causes are before you and we see the weight now and today when it's being debated because as soon as we burden the citizens, as soon as we burden our entrepreneurs, then of course we bear all common political responsibility, unfortunately. You're politicians, we're politicians here and once-in-a-lifetime questions are very pleasant when we say we're going to cut agencies because it's easy to communicate, when a question like this comes who has to pay for it then it's very difficult to answer. And unfortunately, when we look at the so-called. parafiscal charges, non-tax charges, the largest item within them is the compensation for renewable energy sources. Promises in the national reform programme of counterpart Bulj where he stands will reduce the burden of more than 20% in that particular part, I say it will decrease when our biggest item is growing unproportionally. Now it's a billion, a billion and a hundred a year, a billion and a half, a billion and 600, 2019, unfortunately we'll have to pay for it, but it'll pay for our economy too. And for that, we can now go back to who's guilty, we've identified him clearly. But what's the mission is for the Secretary of State and the current Government and for us here to actually insist on measures that citizens and entrepreneurs don't have to pay directly from that small income that they have or from that investment potential that they're going to lose in that way. We must insist that the government find measures, find a way to compensate, and unfortunately again these are the funds from the state budget, our resources. But let's say we bear political responsibility and once we put that thing on the table and say this is the only way to prevent new events from happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44945	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44946	Dear fellow Panenic, you have well mentioned renewable energy sources and incentives that threaten to collect electricity. What is saddening is that counterpart Bacic defended Minister Vrdoljak yesterday, defended the CNS because it was only made to preserve the stability of this shameful coalition that was concluded and it is not good, regardless of any coalition it is necessary to know clearly and determine who is responsible for this situation. You did make it clear who the culprit is, but you should know that both the Croatian public and HDZ as the party most responsible for Croatia must clearly say who is responsible for the collection of electricity and not protecting, colleagues, I would ask you to calm down a bit since the President of the Parliament is not responding. So we need to make it clear who's responsible for it. We have a situation that the people who caused them to back down now. The question is what they're up to, what positions they've been promised and what they've been promised. And will they answer for what they have done or have been promised not to answer? And it's interesting that you, like Ivan Vrdoljak, don't even have them in these ratings studies as the most negative politicians, they're not offered, but they're offered by Tomislav Karamarko who hasn't been in politics for a long time. Will anyone also be responsible for the increase in electricity prices for Croatian citizens? And whether the HDZ as the party leading this ministry will manifest itself on this or protect Ivan Vrdoljak and what has been done means around the incentives for renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44947	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44948	A fellow bush, I'll say, is not worth talking about certain names because it's not really those people's faults, it's just little people who are unfortunately with all their weaknesses. It is one globalisation, it is the wrong pressure on Croatia that comes from the EU, that we must meet certain energy goals, of course we will be happy to do so, but there are also great players who can make such small people that we think are big, but they are small, offering something that is difficult to resist. And that's the problem we're facing that this policy of ours is bigger than people's morals. And then we can discuss this name, or the one, but we can see that they keep showing up, and right where the most interest is. If there was no money in that energy, if there weren't some premiums to be shared there, then we wouldn't have this. And if we go back to the structure of renewable energy sources, why do wind power plants appear? Because the easiest way to make them is somewhere outside of Croatia, the easiest way to find a location is to find them, right there in Dalmatia, the easiest thing to do is to find politicians with whom it is arranged to simply pass, and then 744 megawatts of a total of 999 are realized like this. And then you find an excuse and you'll say yes, but we're according to that strategy that was optimistic, which we wanted the hills and the valleys and the best for this people, even reduced that. So we're not as big criminals as we could be if we went all the way, and we should think about it, in fact, that we have to have in politics that may be small growth, but great about moral value, then we won't call anyone names.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44949	We are on our way to the next debate, which is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the counterparts Greek and Hajdukovic will speak. The first one goes to Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44950	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is what the proposer pointed out, as well as his colleague Panenic said. This law that we are changing in the package is actually a merger of two agencies, the Agency for Hydrocarbons, the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. So the intention is good, the agencies connect, thus reducing the number of agencies, reducing the number of regulatory bodies, reducing the amount of bureaucracy, and actually doing savings. This is the process when we talk about these two agencies that started long before and before the current minister and before Minister Panenic, so that's what was already being considered and that was already the case. The agencies were well-conceived, they were supposed to be the authorities that attract the best, which would provide some major financial resources, thus providing salaries with quality to assist ministries and competent authorities in their work. However, as is the case with us, every good idea is often born into something that is not, that is, the exact opposite, which is the fact that the agencies have just multiplied, that the wages were abnormally high, that some employees of the agency had salaries higher than ministers and, of course, the responsibilities were much less. This is a good work that has been put in order for the governments of Zoran Milanovic, and I believe that the current processes that are going in that direction, so first of all by joining the agencies, we will contribute to that. The more we have a bunch of agencies whose responsibilities overlap, which actually do the same job, some agencies even have such ridiculous names to sound oxymoronic when they're spoken of, so we need to think about it and this network definitely needs to be rationalized. So these two agencies, the two agencies we're discussing, are actually already acting as one agency, even physically located in the same place. So they're moved to the same location, and it's already a good indicator that their work is identical, that they need to be connected. Also, what we welcome in this law is that the administrative council should act as officials. This gives the Governing Council additional weight, officials as the most responsible person and should be in my position, in the board of directors, but also some savings will also be achieved, with the fact that the state officials cannot receive from the state budget except one, in this case the state officials will not have any salaries, so there will be no fees that usually the administrative council has. It is also intended to welcome the applicant's intention and to announce that such mergers will continue, that all agencies dealing with the regulation of the energy market will be joined into one, so the following should be, at least according to the announcement of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, or HEA. So we see a good trend in this, and that's the way to keep working. This should be considered, it would like to say as a proposal to the proposer, with the merger of agencies and to streamline, i.e. unite joint functions of ministries and agencies. For example, the financial service is thought to be able to service all agencies and the ministry in quality quality and to make savings there and not do parallel systems again, as I said at the beginning of the debate, and that agencies often employ more people who have already worked in the ministry or other agencies. As regards the amendment of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, since it is a law regulating the area of work of another agency, it is logical that we are changing it and all in order to get one agency, or the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which should then be doing a job that two agencies previously did. Here, he'll continue his colleague, Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44951	Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44952	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, so this is not controversial what Domagoj was talking about, so the merger of agencies was one of the key reform measures that we started as a government and it's good that this process continues. But there are some things that have been experienced and discontinuity, and even within the mandate of this government alone, it doesn't last that long, so it hasn't yet filled a year, and that important discontinuity has happened on an important energy issue. We will remember the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017 when the key topic, the most powerful topic in Croatia was INA and the possible purchase of shares of INA from MOL. And then it's been a few weeks, so here we are now and a few months as SDP, we've written one of the main interpretations where we've made it very clear where the problem lies. So, we asked the government why she decided to take that step, whether she considered it really justified. Where the money that the project wants to be realised is, in general, with the INA Management Strategy in a situation where all indicators of financial and others say that INA has been going in a bad direction for years, that it has certainly been contributed by different arrangements and contracts signed in the meantime and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been forced to launch certain arbitrations seeking protection of Croatian interests, etc. etc. But then one time overnight practically this topic fell into another plan, I guess because Agrokor appeared. Agrokor has become for this government, whether or not the current government be. So all of his activity practically shrugs on the bankruptcy manager of Agrokor or pre-banks all the same. We'll see how it ends. And other important issues such as the INA's fate issue, such as the question of its future development, such as the issue of its strategic position on this local and regional market and the relationship of course with MOL and everything that history of this relationship has brought unfavourable to Croatia has actually fallen into another plan. A few days or weeks ago, the property minister Mr. Maric said the government had not given up on the project. He reiterated that the only question that this is a model that will be applied and how much money that project needs to be realised. Let's think of the key idea, the idea of selling HEP or part of HEP to buy INA. And that model actually experienced a fiasco because it's not even being talked about anymore. However, a few weeks ago again, two weeks ago it seems to me or three we've come to the government's new knowledge that the government would go to HEP privatisation regardless of what purpose that money would be used. In other words, whether or not that money will be intended for the repurchase of shares of INA. So it's a new moment in the whole story that we can't really agree on. Why can't we agree? So, you will remember that at the beginning of that story we supported the idea of buying INA shares from MOL but we said it must be with a sustainable model, it must be in a sustainable way, a way that has been followed by very clear knowledge and plans, a strategy that goes further with INA, how to manage INA and in what direction it is to develop. This is now about the privatisation of HEP without being told again and why the privatisation of HEP? Why? What's the point? If it's not INA's buyout, then why would we actually go to the privatisation of a large part of HEP if they said they were projects, so I don't believe that's motive. Because INA, pardon HEP and at this point is earning an annual profit of between 2 and 2 and a half billion, which we have estimated is sufficient capacity with some additions to this model for the participation of HEP directly in the return of INA to Croatian hands without selling part of HEP. So HEP is a strong company. It achieves a profit that is largely enough to realise the ongoing HEP projects. Then why sell a piece of HEP? Who cares about selling that part of HEP? I see he mentioned himself earlier here and HNS and some people from the HNS who have always had a major impact on the energy sector over the past few years, and he will obviously continue to have it in view of the schedule of state secretaries, assistants, some of the head of energy companies. So I wonder if this HNS entry into the coalition has added to revitalising the idea of selling HEP, but this time without a clear goal why and where the money from HEP sales would go. So these are all the questions that I wanted to mention in this context for one reason only, which is that we didn't have another chance, an official, formal opportunity to talk about such important strategic issues of our energy, which was that this opportunity was called the interpretation that we referred to in the Croatian Parliament. That's why my appeal at the end of this presentation is primarily to the President of the Parliament, to finally put that interpretation on the agenda. If we can discuss other problems, if we can talk about an immune institution that is important but for its own value, meaning significantly less important than the INA. If we can talk here and spend a lot of time on Agrokor, which is extremely important for Croatia, given everything that relates to Agrokor in terms of economic impact, employment, income, profit, and all that and of course debt. So, if that's important, I believe that INA is also a very important topic and that this topic should be revitalised. And after six months back into these benches and seriously consider all these ideas and plans that from the government's side come in the last few weeks and months which they don't have, I would say very clearly neither head nor tail. So they're always missing something with these ideas. So you don't know what you're really going to do, but there's no point in talking about it, but there's no clear intention of doing what you want. Neither INA nor HEP. So this is my call and the incentive to put it on the agenda and to encourage the Government to yet create certain solutions to offer the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public a solution for the INA, but also very clear, detailed and sustainable and reasoned issue of any entry into the IPO, partial sale of HEP shares or something like that. Thank you very much for allowing me to put this porch on the agenda, to finally put it on the agenda of this Parliament, there in the fall when we meet here again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44953	We have four replicas. He is the first respected colleague Tomislav Panenic. His replica goes to counterpart Hajdukovic, while the other three go to fellow Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44954	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you have said one thing to which I must contradict myself through this replica. You emphasized the kindness of the situation to name state officials in the administrative bodies, supervisory authorities and council agencies, all of them. What are we doing here? We bring in politicians of a different profile, then we don't set the criteria for their expertise and skills to manage such that we don't have agencies or other institutions. It's just, I'm going to get you back, for example, here's what we've got right now, where we're discussing the conflict of interest of Minister Maric and making a decision on, within the HBOR regarding the loans given to Agrokor. I've been commenting on it today and they're asking me what's causing it. The cause is precisely because they were placed there on the board of directors, politicians were appointed. Imagine when they get such extensive documentation, financial data, where it should tell what is the state of a reporting company, they are not familiar with it. It's a problem for you and our companies in general owned by the Republic of Croatia, where we put again people who go along a political line, and not by their expertise where we don't even have lawyers who can properly articulate documents, we don't have economists who can explain, we don't have people who know the dam that's involved. And that's why this agency, especially Handa's affairs, which is very complex which is demanding, how many politicians could sit there and make real decisions that are in the interest of our country and that they're professionally subdued. I'm telling you, very little and with it, that topic should be closed, put the profession in the places of people who run such agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44955	Reply to the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44956	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I agree with my colleague, but in order to achieve what you're proposing, we should radically change, I mean radically, we should change the system. We should change, that is, introduce some clear criteria by which these appointments were carried out, because unfortunately, that is true what you say, that most people who are appointed to the board of directors or supervisory boards, not only at the state level, but at all levels, have come to this place by policy. What I won't agree with is that there are no experts among politicians. There is absolutely, for all areas, but in general, I think we should change that, and I think we should go to exactly one comprehensive different approach in the legal bodies, the supervisory committees, because the name itself says the board of directors, the board of directors, they need to monitor someone and they need something, they need to manage something, and they need to have capacity and knowledge, but also responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44957	We're moving on to the replicas for a colleague of the Greeks. The first one's a colleague of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44958	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Greek, you said and pointed to a major problem that has been mentioned again, so it's a sale of HEP. In the proposal, Minister Dalic was without talks with the Mosto, and I was not at all in the talks, I personally said that we do not have the right to sell our energy to others, as well as these renewable sources of energy, that our system becomes dependent on foreign investment, mainly on huge investments, such as the Vis-Viva project, that it must be built exclusively, HEEP and be the owner of HEP, because the HEP addiction and the reduction of the value of HEP, as the energy that is crucial now in the world, and also in Croatia with this potential, must be of strategic importance and is very important. As far as INA is concerned, INA is a problem in itself, essentially created and also from political circles, from political elites, which have also been there since the white nights later by privatisation, but the SDP Government, through the end of the HDZ and we are familiar with that. As INA surrendered to other people's hands, also against the interest of the Republic of Croatia as a strategic energy company. However, the Bridge had its own model, without selling HEP, taking over... Ante Čikotić and his professional associates he has worked on for a long time and the possibility of returning INA can be found, but HEP, here I agree with everyone, regardless of what is now being announced again by you who is also in your government, i.e. in the government where you were the minister, you also had a huge impact on energy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're announcing HEP sales as 25% again, so it's going to be the same case as T-COM, so it's going to be 25 plus 1, so it's going to come to 50%. Simple energy must be a strategic interest and Croatia must be a regional player in energy with its potential and build its strength and influence in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44959	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so let's go to the next one. Dear colleague of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44960	Dear President, dear colleague of the Greeks. You say this government doesn't know where it's going, why certain things suggest and what it wants. I think exactly the opposite. Certain people in this government, primarily Minister Dalic, Minister Maric, know very well what they are doing in which direction and whose interests they are working for. And also Prime Minister Plenkovic knew very well why he said on Christmas Eve that Croatia was going to buy shares of INA because he knew it was a crime of HDZ, that HDZ was responsible for it, the HDZ government. We all know that the verdict of Eve Sanader was brought down and that it was one of the reasons for the loss of arbitration, that it was done by the team in the Constitutional Court here is the godfather of our colleague Branko Bačić and that these are the people chosen by HDZ and that these people did what they did. And to wash it off, the prime minister announced good news to the Croatian regiment for Christmas Eve, but without models. A colleague Bulj said we have a concrete model of how to buy the INA, and they are in their best interest and you have noticed that these HNS structures are in their interest to go in... HEP and this is already Ivan Vrdoljak's plan regardless of this purchase of INA and they went through it under INA's purchase. Now it's no longer spoken of, now it's about the privatisation of HEP. And these same people are running energy in Croatia today, we have a secretary of state from the HNS we see, today he was here in the SDSS National Secretary, these are the people who will lead the Ministry of Energy in the coming period and who will continue to call our party colleague Cikotic that is one tribal energy which manages Croatian energy, and the key role is played by HNS. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44961	Thank you. A fellow Greek response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So my message was just that the problem wasn't solved the moment we stopped talking about him. It's a message. So we need to talk about these things. Maybe the people of government and government's intentions are the most noble, and maybe they're really constructive, sustainable, maybe the goals are clear, but we haven't heard them, that's what they're talking about. So we want the debate and, of course, we want the government's answers to some key questions so that the public is informed, and that these very serious processes that relate to both INA and HEP are completely transparent and that the public is aware of this, nothing else. And then, of course, we'll be able to say what we think about such ideas as we said the first day that we think about the idea of selling HEP to buy out INA about its sustainability or practically unsustainableness because it was very difficult to count on that and that kind of sale to provide enough money to buy INA from MOL.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44963	Thank you. 4. replicated colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44964	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I was going to raise a plate in violation of the Rules of Procedure because my esteemed colleague, Greek, for 12 minutes, seemed to be out of the picture. So what he was saying on behalf of the club absolutely had nothing to do with the changes to the laws proposed by the government, but you democratically let Mr. Greek say what he meant to the end. So I would remind him that in 2012, as an opposition representative, I proposed several acts that, by the end of the term of the government of Zoran Milanovic, I failed to discuss in the Parliament, since there was also an interpretation written two, three months ago, or how many, it is much less than four years since I waited for my law to come, not my law, which was then written by the HDZ Representatives' Club at the hearing and the declarations that we wrote in the parliamentary procedure. And the third thing, we heard that the club was announced on several occasions already saying that the Regional Development Strategy will be discussed late in the evening, that the Law on Advocates will also be discussed late in the evening, I would visit a fellow Greek, today the SDP Club held three breaks in the Assembly and two, respectively, and this was practically exactly beyond the subject and disrespect of the Rules of Procedure. If we were to focus more on respecting the Rules of Procedure, the debate on the points of the agenda that are on the subject would then both the strategy and the law would come on time during the morning when it was obviously more interesting for colleagues from the SDP to discuss than late in the evening. So I had to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44965	Thank you. A fellow Greek response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44966	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Branko, colleague Bacic, my theme I was talking about is absolutely not out of the question. Why? Why are we talking about the oil and oil products market? So who does that apply to? So is that relevant to the INA? So who's the key energy oil company in Croatia, is there anyone else? There are some traders, but it is INA that is the foundation of the oil industry in Croatia and cannot possibly be beyond this topic. I've said my position on merger agencies, but that INA is out of this context, so we can't talk about it at all. The second question is, as far as the agenda is concerned, I honestly think that your interest, your interest, is an interest in the position to discuss such an important topic in this place. It's a message, yes, your interest. Therefore, now to talk about whether a point is put on the agenda or not, someone mentioned the difference today, it seems to me to me fellow Grbin, the difference between the Regional Development Strategy as one of the key documents and you have mentioned it, as one of the key documents for Croatia's development. So all the time here in Parliament we're talking about regional differences, about Slavonia, about Lica, about all the ends of our Zagora there, that need to be developed. And then we put the strategy at midnight to discuss. Well, it can't be compared to the change in the OIB, it seems to me that Pedja said or, say, even with this two-age merger issue where a few million kunas are going to be saved. So these are topics that are significantly different and that really needs to be taken into account as important and less important, which is a priority and what is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44967	Thank you. We're moving on to further discussion. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44969	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's go after the bade of costumes and today's Open try to get back on the topic that is now, and this is two legislative proposals that actually unites the Agency for Hydrocarbons together with the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. It is two legislative proposals that have been made very correctly. So this way we're reducing the number of agencies that we've always been kind of anxious about, but we've been doing it slowly. But of course when it comes to the merger of these two agencies, when it comes to oil, when it comes to hydrocarbons, it opens up some other topics that need to be talked about and should be said. The first topic is what I've said before, and this is the way I'm going to repeat it. It is that in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection is also part of energy. I suppose it was one package in the government when, together in the coalition, HDZ and MOST, it was a condition for MOST to go into the environment and energy, I doubled it then, two and now. And I'm taking this opportunity to say more to the team than here in this explanation that we've got says that the Agency for Hydrocarbons could go on doing the day-to-day work. It is necessary to adopt a financial plan and programme for 2017. Since the second half of 2017 has already started, that we are in July will be very interesting to see when this financial plan and programme will be adopted. But hopefully by joining these two agencies, maybe some processes will accelerate, maybe some of the topics that are related to hydrocarbons will be something clearer. There was always my dilemma when the ministry, the former Ministry of Economy at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, was part of the explosion, there was oil and hydrocarbons, and if I'm not wrong about geothermal water, and I'm not wrong about it, and the rest are mineral raw materials. So then there was the division of these mineral raw materials where, according to our regulations, all the mineral raw materials remained a little questionable and small in the air. And this opens up another topic that I don't know one of the MPs said, but anyway, I think it should be pointed out. By joining these two agencies into one agency, we won't have a director anymore, but we'll have management. And so the president of the administration will manage what is formally not disputed. However, it is an issue that requires both our efforts and little debate. Who we want to get at the head of certain agencies, whether or not he was the director, whether his name was the director, whether his name was the board president. And we need to be clear about it, no matter what it's always about, and some kind of recommendation. If we want to get the most professional and the best of people, then we have to be aware that we have to pay them the same way. If we're going to have still salaries that are relatively small concepts of the most professional people, we're not going to get that. And we're always going to come up here and talk about who's in charge of some of our agencies. So it must be clear to us that if we want to get quality, if we want to get people on the market, who can do their own knowledge, actually contribute to those agencies, then there's that eternal problem, the problem of paying. Because for the salary they have today, and on the market is offered three times or four times as much for the same jobs we certainly won't get. And it's certainly one of the things we need to discuss and I believe except in the government and in this House of Commons. Are we ready? Are we ready to take this step? We at the Independent Representatives and HSU Club will support these two bill proposals for the simple reason we consider them correct. Two agencies go to one agency, and I won't use time even though it's the practice of our parliamentary representatives to talk about other things when it comes to such mergers that it certainly opens up is the problem of hydrocarbons, the problem of oil, but we'll leave it for another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44970	Thank you. The next debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44971	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These two draft laws will support the Croatian Democratic Community club and we are pleased to hear that other colleagues from other clubs also support these two bill proposals since it is a matter of rationalising costs and reducing expenditure from the state budget. Namely, the 2014 Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, with regulated rules and criteria for the safe and reliable production of petroleum products and everything else, has been established and regulated by the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products as a public institution which is an obligation to provide mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products and which is authorised to form, maintain and sell compulsory supplies. That same year, the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons was established as a public institution for the purpose of providing systematic operational support in hydrocarbon research and exploitation operations as well as for the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide in geological structures. The recommendations of the EU Council of 14 July 2015 should also take into account, inter alia, the effectiveness of the public sector, sustainable public finances. The National Reform Programme for 2017 was also developed and, in accordance with the above, it was necessary to connect legal persons with a similar area of action in one legal person, and this is only the first step in bringing legal entities together in the field of energy. And in the future, in the next step, we should also realise the accession with the Croatian energy market operator. The amendments to these two laws will also achieve significant savings. Already in 2017, we expect a reduction of expenditure by 267 000 kuna for employees, and in the next period when we add business space rentals, communal fees and similar things that relate to the rationalisation of staff to the reduction of other purchase costs and other services to assume that we will have savings in 2018 and 2019 in the amount of around 2 million and 200 thousand kuna. Also, since the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products had to move out of its business premises by 31 March this year. It was also carried out in a way that equipment workers moved from that date to the business premises of the hydrocarbons Agency and in order to allow planned savings as soon as possible. In view of the fact that those legal entities already operate together at the same business address, formal accession should be made as soon as possible for these reasons, the HDZ Club supports these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44972	Thank you. And we have an individual discussion, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44973	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary, since in Croatia we have a number of agencies, offices, administrations, of course we should support the merger if it makes sense and it is good that a colleague before me said that the Ministry of Environment, Energy is not well, but in many countries there is much more advanced energy and the environment is tied, meaning sustainable development and the exploitation of the energy potentials that Croatia has. I think that's good. And this part and the Agency for Hydrocarbons and the Croatian Oil Products Agency are also good to merge and reduce costs and this should be supported. But there is always a question here, what we are seeking about the INA, as key companies, which, here, has caused numerous disputes as a key and national interest of the company that we have not protected, which the political elites that were sitting in this House and ministers who were on the other side, from the white nights to the Eve Sanader case and handing over what happened and what was happening, means, our very important company that was dealing with oil derivatives, which was simply taken from the people and the national interest was at risk, where a much smaller company from Hungary took over MOL, our INA, which was at world level, at least in our area, let's say Southeastern Europe a very significant company, which had a huge profit. Here, just white nights, there's more oil than all the wells and INAs and MOLs, so big damage has been done. Unfortunately, no one answered. We try to protect our energy, triangulate as potential, see Turkey says the most important strategy and the potential is energy and water, of course that's how we should realise it. We should not sell HEP, but strengthen HEP. Not to sell because of someone's interests, not to weaken HEP by giving our sources, renewable to foreign investors, but to give HEP to be a waltz of it. Because we're weakening HEP and HEP becomes addicted, and it's mostly a story very important, where even our diplomacy now has a lot of interference, in family relationships, and that's like a reversible plant in Peru or di we have a problem meaning or Vis has a project, which is a very important project, except for a thermal power plant. But the foreigners can't be the owners, only HEP can be the owner. Due to energy, I personally support myself when colleagues before me, reducing costs, joining agencies because we don't even know the number anymore, but we need to protect not only the merger of agencies that are minor costs, we need to protect our energy and be the main and main strategic energy needs to be energy, branch and development, mainly Croatian electricity, which will be the owner and will be the main player, not only in Croatia, but throughout the southeast, and in this way we can contribute to Croatian society, to develop our potentials, energy use of both hydrocarbons and other sources of energy. Here I would finally say, Secretary, that here's the bridge will support, as I said individually. But really protect the energy, not now under the influence of coalition partners to sell HEP... Because it'll go the same way that it did with the INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That our children will not forgive us, future generations, will move our areas even more, the profits will go away as in the case of banks, banks so in the case of INA, so in the case of HEP. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u44974	Thank you. Since a representative of the Government and the Proposer will not report finally. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Let's get on with the work. Final proposal of the Law amending the law on the market in oil and petroleum products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 159. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 129 votes for, 2 abstentions to the Law amending the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45016	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we, that this strategy is put on the agenda today past the announcement, otherwise I commend this idea of yours, that every day, for a week in advance, we will get what we are going to discuss, given the scope of the strategy, it takes the SDP Representatives' Club a half hour to agree on the strategy debate, because we will understand, if you grant us a break and for a little longer than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45017	A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45018	So the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, given the importance of the topic, I also ask a half-hour break. I also commend that we received the agenda in time, but it took a short while, so we had this changed agenda today, so we would pray for a half hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45019	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45020	I, too, should be minimal in terms of the scope of the important topic of regional development, the 2020 strategy, because at this time and this hour, let the colleague Bauk finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45021	But I can't break it when you keep throwing, creating such an atmosphere. I let you go, I let others go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45022	There you were more correct than Mr. Reiner today. I would say that if we were looking for a break also from half an hour on this topic is unannounced at this time, and a very important topic, it would be good if the public had heard in the morning that HTV broadcasts to see our people from the field what it's about is it still very important topics, not at eight o'clock to open a strategy of very important regional development, and we all know that it matters either the strategy is a dead end or something is undermining. I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45023	Okay. So I'll grant a break for ten minutes because this morning it's my colleague Bulj please, let me say so you, the announced item this morning, there's been a slight change in what's been announced, but not our fault because some committees haven't done their job. The presidents of these committees come from the opposition order, so please don't trouble us now. Here's a ten-minute break, my colleague Bulj will be mastering three strategies in ten minutes, and colleagues in Bauku may need two hours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45024	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45025	Strategy 2020. [[It's 20.05.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.15 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I would like to ask my esteemed colleague, Branko Grcic, to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45027	The Honorable Madam Minister with her State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. We needed to say that this inclusion today in the agenda of such an important topic of the Regional Development Strategy was not expected in view of the plan for this week we received. It's not a problem for me, I've already read the strategy very well and commented on the committees, but the problem is all those people who were also in the mood for debate and didn't have time to adequately prepare themselves because it just wasn't planned for this week. We even wanted that to happen, but we saw that it wasn't, that it was left for the fall, and that's what we've come to terms with. Secondly, this late hour is no good for such an important document. So this is the time when very little is monitored for the transfer of the session of the Parliament, in the morning it is much more current and until sometime from the afternoon but this is certainly not the time to be in front of the Croatian public who is not focused on the Parliament in this hour, I say something of this importance debate. And the third thing I'm saying, tomorrow, I don't know if that's an accident, tomorrow we'll have another debate on the use of EU funds again. Again one topic from your portfolio, not just yours, but a lot of other resors that are extremely important and will come to an end with this whole story again. Of course we are not satisfied with this and that is why we express a kind of protest, simply here in this institution in the Croatian Parliament we want to make it clear. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, I will only very indicatively say that the remarks we had and the committees are heading towards that the strategy is quite extensive but that there is more document by the designer than the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, all of what you've been saying in public, the Minister himself, as well as the Government's representatives, has not been incorporated into this strategy. I don't recognize it, I don't see it. Since subregional development, from the projects of Slavonia, the project of northwestern Croatia which is now being launched, from several mayors who are very close to the position at this time and government, etc., etc., there is no word on that. There is also no word on the effects of the new Law on the financing of units of local self-government that brings huge changes and none of this is in the Strategy itself, which is completely incompatible to me. Furthermore, the Strategy speaks of five spatial units, at the same time government representatives say that the counties are fundamental units and that there will be no change. But the strategy also says that the counties are relatively small for effective regional development management. So what's this about? Let me get this straight. Here, unfortunately, we no longer have time to devote ourselves to this debate in one appropriate hour and to shed light on these things. There is a new development index with which you go out, a new development index which I hope will be improved but will again and after its application be dissatisfied and those satisfied. Those who enter the assisted area system will be satisfied and those who come out will again be dissatisfied and there will be a lot of noise. There are some new criteria for sorting the island, a new story that has no details or indicators here. Redefining mountain-mounted areas, I'm just curious about what's going on over there. Then as if a decision had already been made, this is about transferring EU funds to regional funds and not respecting the fact that tomorrow we will confirm in the debate that neither the state is yet sufficiently qualified to manage ESI funds, etc. etc. Unfortunately, here is no time to say everything, what is questionable in this strategy and I am sorry that you did not allow us to discuss it for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45028	I'd almost remind you that you can answer on behalf of the club but I'd rather you didn't, but you can if you want. Second break of 5 minutes, i.e. after the break, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, Club of Independent Representatives and HSU 5 minutes go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45029	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. So back one 3 weeks we started working in a different way that absolutely was praised by all of us, in time we got the agenda for a few days, even the more we got and what we would do every day so that we could prepare ourselves. No matter what our esteemed president of the Parliament said that someone could master something for if I'm not mistaken, three strategies in ten minutes, and someone in two hours, I have one slightly bigger problem. When I have a document, then I like to read it and prepare myself in a way that I try to master everything. So I only came to page 122, this strategy so we won't be involved in this debate, and I have to admit I'm extremely sorry. I'm sorry when you get a document like this, when for the first time the state makes and has a Regional Development Strategy, then it should be me, I'll break up, while colleagues Bulj and counterpart Pernar have shared what they have, and then I'll continue when they calm down. I'm not a teacher, but I do need a little as a teacher. Thank you. So, when it comes to a document like this, I'm extremely sorry that the minister doesn't have the opportunity to really present, to talk to everyone, and I'm convinced that through one discussion that might be useful, we might have such a document that could even be accepted by acclaim. However, the minister did not get the appropriate term, but you must agree on the term, but she did not get a chance either, and the government did not actually get a chance to praise the strategy. We can have dilemmas on the strategy, we can think one way or the other, but if for the first time the Republic of Croatia brings the Regional Development Strategy, then it should be an important step and it must be an important time for the Republic of Croatia as well. What we need to know is, look at what the goals are. The objectives are to increase the quality of life of sustainable spatial development. So, the topic of spatial development. Increasing the competitiveness of the regional economy and employment, so that is, there is no debate in this House where we do not touch it, and we are not talking about demographic work, how to make it competitive. Then the systematic management of regional development, and we see that there were two partner councils that they made, and it is about regional development, we talk about assisted areas and we talk about areas with developmental specificities. So, what's important is that, first of all, let's see what the regions are, let's see what areas are, the way they should be defined, and it's really a very comprehensive document, don't forget that this document has passed and the strategic environmental impact assessment there somewhere in February 2017 has ended this procedure. So there was absolutely enough time or to put it on the agenda that I wouldn't mind, even moreover, I wish there were two strategies together. The Spatial Development Strategy and the Regional Development Strategy. About the strategy of spatial development as if we're dealing with motherhood, it's somewhere on the bottom, so it'll come when it comes and the question is how long, even if it's 2030, it'll be able to argue, this is by the end of 2020, so we're talking about regional development in three years. I repeat once again, we will not participate in the debate, we will let them debate by ruling it, but I am extremely sorry. I am sorry for the minister who is making a great effort not to get the opportunity to present the strategy in front of a slightly more full assembly, although the assembly is surprisingly full, I have to comment on it for these late hours, only that there are interesting points, or another point that is. It's just not good and we'd appreciate two things. Indeed, if we had the time to get the agenda and we would like to really try and put the points on the agenda, therefore, the Regional Development Strategy, there are no citizens in the Republic of Croatia or children from primary school, and beyond, who does not hear about sustainable development, so that is sustainable development. We are talking about how we can develop Croatia in order to have a future, but unfortunately, this is how we decided to discuss the strategy in the middle of the night, and here it will be, what will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45030	Thank you, too. So, as far as the time is concerned, this is not too late, 20.30 is the time in which we often used to work, it was debated in this House and after midnight, so the minister will have the right, like everyone else who participates in the debate, to present a strategy. I thank the MPs and the MPs who are here, the ones who are not, it's not me or the minister, it's theirs. That's how everyone knows it's been working for a long time these days, and I've announced for this week that we're going to be doing a lot of work, so I'd like to ask you, especially you who are here, to participate actively in the debate. That's it. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45031	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At this point as well as my predecessors, we are talking about a document that is the most important document in the Republic of Croatia, that is the Strategy for Regional Development, i.e. about what has never been said, about what has been forgotten, what has not been well led, from the development index that is now mentioned, from the mountainous area, from the way of determining support, but the fact is that this topic, the distinguished minister, your efforts that you have made, to be here at 9 o'clock in front of parliamentary representatives, instead of taking this topic through both public debate and through the media and through discussions what is good, what is not good, what could change, because the fact that 2/3 of Croatia are empty, from Slavonia, like, so also Zagorje, Gorski Kotar, Regular Kotar, Dalmatinski Zagora, the island, all of them have specificities and here should be seriously devoted to this topic and not in this way, this is a humiliation to you, your work, it has been done to you tonight, the humiliation of people from these areas to which are going to be very publicised, so that this time. Why is it not on TV, this topic on the Regional Development Strategy was on our Open HTV by 2020. It's a very important topic, not to talk about what bathing suits will wear, whether they will be with the flowers, what they will be on me, on my colleagues, on the president of our Parliament, Ivan Šipić. Well, it's so meaningful, it's so meaningfully brought to the Minister's attention that this serious topic is being brought into a situation where two-thirds of Croatia is empty, evicting. You've made an effort, and now in front of the MPs unprepared for the entire public, even this HTV4 doesn't transmit, that our people hear in the field what it's about, that they can get involved, that they can track this very important thing for local self-government, for regional self-government, for the counties where they define themselves as five regions here, and we're essentially calling for all counties. Actually, there's something here that's trying to get through. What he wants to push through I don't know, but the fact that he participates this way in the debate is going to explain to his colleague Panenic on behalf of the MOST club why he didn't, he shouldn't be involved in this debate. But he will participate in explaining everything the Tribal would run this strategy and how it should be presented to the public. So if it should be in every local self-government, because we only know that the indexation that was adopted in 2009, and in 2014 by the Government of the SDP and the HNS, which was adopted by the strategy that half of the Dalmatian burns, like essentially excluded from the support system, which led to the disaster of numerous budgets, the eviction of young people, of course without any criteria other than political ones. I hope to be honest that you feel the same way that we have said now on behalf of the club and that it would be good for the President of the Parliament to withdraw this item of the agenda, to postpone the debate on this very important point when they are in the morning to follow the sea public, to see it, that it can be critically applied and commended in this strategy, so that it can be seen which direction the Republic is going. And this is how it humiliated you, your strategy. Is that the intention of the President of the Parliament I do not believe, but the fact that this is embarrassing to those parts that are spoken of? Unless it's the ministry's interest to have it at 8:00 and 35 minutes where a number of speakers will probably speak up to two, three hours a night. Here again I call upon you, President of the Parliament, together with the Minister, to withdraw this item of the agenda and to discuss it in normal terms, to have a debate that will be constructive in the interests of the Regional Development Strategy by 2020, so that we can all see together from Slavonia to Dalmatia in which this strategy will go, which is important for these areas, mainly for undeveloped areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45032	Thank you. When we're done here, I'll consider your proposal. I now ask Minister Žalac to give an additional explanation of this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45033	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, fellow State Secretary, assistant. Here is the honor and pleasure of presenting the Strategy for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2020 in the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about the term, then I must say that June 21st strategy was sent to the Croatian Parliament, and now that it has come to the agenda it is, of course, the agreement of your parliamentary representatives, which you have been informed of. I would devote myself, certainly after a comprehensive debate with all the regional local participants, the partner councils that were held and also the working bodies of the government and all the ministries involved in drawing up the same attention in these half-hours to present to you what we have drawn out in the strategy. As regards the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016/20 mandate programme The regional development policy characterised by the natural systematic action of the central government in cooperation with local and regional units has been found to help less developed areas, to come up with more developed strategies, as well as through the realisation of projects with funding from the state budget and EU funds. The strategy defines the objectives, priorities and measures of regional development that contribute to the realisation of both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the main objectives of the National Reform Programme. As regards the legislative framework, then, I must say that, in line with the Regional Development Act, the objective of regional development policy is to contribute naturally to the socio-economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and above all to achieve the objective of ensuring that local and regional development needs are linked to the priorities of the central state and the objectives of EU cohesion policy. Of course, support for less developed areas for increasing and optimal use of its own development potential by removing the causes of developmental difficulties and also by appropriate measures for the uniform and sustainable development of units of local and regional self-government. Of course, we should not forget the same promotion of territorial co-operation, which is also one of the pillars, so EU cohesion policy. The regional development strategy is not the first, this is the second strategy. I must tell the parliamentary deputies who are here tonight that unfortunately because of the poor programming of that government, we too, unfortunately, are bringing the Regional Development Strategy back to 2017. The previous one was extended three times over three years, then it was also directed from our ministry to local leaders more precisely to mayors to extend to their representative bodies, the Regional Assemblys Development Strategy 2011-2013 until even 2016, i.e. until the end of 2016. As for the process of making, of course, it started with the creation of an analytical basis for making in the context of the assessment of the situation and trends. We are aware that precisely these indicators that have derived from the analytical background actually both the vision and priorities and the smooth analysis have been taken with the last date available statistics that have been available to us. As for the methodology, it was based, of course, on the modern approach of participatory, therefore strategic planning, also including all key stakeholders, so I must say that the very participatory character in the process of making this strategy is visible through held SWOT workshops, at regional and local level. Meetings of the continental and Adriatic Croatian Partnership Council held in order to define the priorities of measures and objectives. I must say that I personally participated in making the same, as an ex-regionalist from the regional level in partnership with the continental Croatian Council and if I am well aware of what was happening. And I must also point out that nine working meetings have been held through cross-sectoral thematic working meetings at national level with all the bodies whose strategy is concerned, and it really concerns all ministries. It is also important to note that 28 interviews were conducted with representatives of ministries, state administrations and public companies. Institutions selected, of course, on basic experiences, inter-resorial cooperation, identified, future necessary for cooperation in the implementation of regional development policy. The development of the strategy was supported professionally by the Zagreb Economic Institute, the project technical assistance to the ministry in the design and definition of development priorities. And what is important to note, the process of making, that is, the longevity of this process, lasted from September 2015 to July 2016. In early August, it was sent for public consultation with an interested public which lasted officially until 4 September. After a public consultation of harmonising all needs, a strategic impact assessment on the environment began, which is a long-term process on this very important document, and also, of course, after that, the opinions of all the authorities of the state administration. I'll just say briefly what are the key findings, so basic analysis when we talk about the segment of society, then we have to say that there is a continuous trend in population reduction, as well as a stronger decline in the number of inhabitants precisely in continental Croatia, the rate of natural decline in 2015 was -4%, and the natural decline in the population was also recorded in all counties. As for the ageing population, then we can say that the share of the elderly population in the total population is in constant growth. The largest population is in Lika-Senjska, as well as in Međimurje County. The migrations of the population, then we found that during the past period, the large migration of the population has been established both in continental and Adriatic Croatia and according to the number of persons evaluated abroad, in the first town of Zagreb. Out of the total number of displaced, followed by Primorje-goranska and Zagreb County. Also, as regards unemployment, significant differences have been identified in parts of Croatia. As for the share of the educational population, then we must say that the largest number of educational populations in the City of Zagreb and the smallest part in Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. As regards health, social care and civil society, cultural heritage, also in the section of the chapter relating to society, systematic analysis has been carried out on the ground. As far as the economy is concerned, I must point out that the inter-oural inequalities are pronounced, according to the basic indicators of social and economic development, the educational structure of the population, unemployment, employment, and also the part relating to wages, the index of development, competitiveness, the development of entrepreneurship, etc. What has been determined is that our country is lagging behind the EU average of 28, according to indicators of both demographic, social and economic development. As for space and the environment, then I must say that large differences, as far as spatial development is concerned, are determined precisely in the population structure, functional development and regional development towards the development index, the competitiveness index and GDP, and as far as transport infrastructure is concerned, we have identified the weakness in the dynamics of construction, rapid and other state roads in the function of establishing a complete road network system. We also processed rail infrastructure, of course river transport, maritime transport and intermodal transport. When we talk about key findings, therefore, SWOT analysis, then I have to say that it was really intense, was the result of a number of workshops, comments and all that the regional level had just delivered to the Ministry and the Economic Institute, in the SWOT analysis process were really involved participants from both local and regional levels. The emphasis is placed on their view of what is called a development problem, faced by experts in a particular area, i.e. users of public services. What is important to highlight about this strategy is certainly, therefore, the development of objectives, the definition of priorities for smaller groups compared to the statistical region in continental and Adriatic Croatia, if we are talking about, for example, that in continental Croatia large differences are seen in the City of Zagreb and the rest of the 14 counties that cover exactly continental Croatia. When we talk about SWOT workshops at statistical level, NUC 2 regions, continental and Adriatic Croatia, then at these complex problems, i.e., establishing the priorities of common, individual 14 counties in continental Croatia and 7 counties in Adriatic Croatia, there must have been a lot of structures that agreed on how priorities and our measures would be defined. As for developmental management, then I must say that all single activities, i.e. weaknesses, identified in all segments of the basic analysis, are then certainly in segments of the development of a far greater force in SWOT analysis, but we have nevertheless defined that in some way never in the Republic of Croatia, it was not managed systematically, therefore, by regional development, and that is something we plan to do in the coming years. As regards strategic objectives, priorities and measures, I must then say that the first strategic objective of regional development policy is to increase the quality of life, fostering sustainable territorial development, where we have significant measures concerning this very first strategic objective, increasing the competitiveness of the regional economy and employment and systematically managing regional development. All objectives are multidimensional, integrated and take into account, of course, the principles of sustainable development. When we talk about defining our goals, then we must say that just in the tables that contribute to this strategy we can say that the horizontal issues in all three strategic objectives are precisely demographic effects, above all, as far as the same great eviction from the Republic of Croatia is concerned in all our parts. As regards priorities within strategic objectives, then we can say that this is within the strategic objective of increasing the quality of life, promoting sustainable territorial development, raising the level of knowledge and ability to improve quality of life, ensuring and improving basic local and regional infrastructure and supporting assisted areas and areas with developmental specificities. When we also talk about the strategic objective of increasing the regional economy and employment, then I must say that there are priorities for improving economic infrastructure, creating a stimulating business environment at regional and local level, strengthening human potential and education, related to the needs of the economy at regional and local level. When we talk about the strategic objective of three, then I must say that it is in it that we are talking about a system of governance of regional development, effective governance in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, effective cross-sectoral cooperation and also strengthening financial and administrative capacity for development at local and regional level. As far as each objective is concerned, I must say that each priority also defines two to five development measures that cover the possibilities of solving identified developmental difficulties and development potentials including development stakeholders, which are people and the space in which they live and operate, as well as the infrastructure they use to achieve the general objective of regional development policy. In the descriptions of the measures there is also a description of the activities of the programmes and projects planned to be implemented within each measure, and what we have already done, and we are only waiting for the adoption of the strategy in the Croatian Parliament, this is also the Action Plan of the Implementation Document of the Strategy, which we will refer to at the meeting of the Government after adoption in the Croatian Parliament. The action plan was developed for the period 2017-2019, it served to define the financial framework of the strategy, and also to take into account that regional policy is at national level of inter-resor character, that it covers various measures from all resolutions due to the reality and accuracy of the calculation, the financial data defined during the preparation of the action plan and are based on it to be consistent with the budgetary planning process at the annual and three-year level. The funds for the implementation of the activities, programmes and projects envisaged by the action plan are therefore aimed at the implementation of certain regional development measures provided for in the budgets of the authorities of the state administration whose competence is covered by the action plan by measures, activities and programmes, including national funds and EU funds. What I'm saying is the overall estimated value of the strategy by the end of 2020 is over 32 billion kuna. In accordance with the law of the Regional Development Strategy, it is adopted for a seven-year period in accordance with the multiannual financial framework, as I said at the outset. Unfortunately, the Partnership Agreement, operational programmes that could not be reached by the government, caused a delay in this strategy, and I am sorry that we are not bringing it in until 2017. Therefore, the draft proposal that we have sent to the Government after the adoption of the Government was sent to the Croatian Parliament and is called the Regional Development Strategy for the period until the end of 2020. To conclude, let me just say that given the importance of this strategy being adopted in the summer session of the Croatian Parliament after the establishment of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, it is important that this strategy be adopted as soon as possible to bring the representative bodies at the level of the units of local and regional self-government into line with the one we propose today and also to respond to the challenges that not only give us EU membership but also what we have drawn out in the Government of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45034	I would like to thank Minister Grief. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first came to the floor from a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic, on behalf of the Independent Lists' Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45035	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, State Secretary and Associates. And what to say is, everyone has already said this is not the right time to discuss a document like this. I would also say that I don't think you should have discussed this document, that document should have been discussed long ago. Now we could discuss who didn't make this document when it was time, why we were already extending the strategy. We probably forgot that time when it was, so we had a strategy, and now let's go to the neck, and let's take advantage of it by the end of this period by 2020, and let's make sure it doesn't turn out that we're not. And that's why discussing it probably made it necessary to do it even though I think it would be better if it were a new strategy, that we didn't have to discuss 2020, and I don't know the fourth, fifth, sixth things about how we're bringing the strategy, and we've been extending this one. We probably shouldn't even be discussing the vision of whether if we look at this vision contained in this strategy by 2020 we can't get anywhere near it. Of course, the vision is something that is desired, but that will be well-being and that everyone will be happy in Croatia by 2020 is hard to believe especially for these problems we have. So to discuss the vision I don't think it's a good time, not because it's so late, but to give us a year to discuss it would certainly be the conclusion that we can't achieve that vision, so we don't have to argue. We shouldn't even discuss the regions because we still haven't agreed on what the regions will be, here's a little bit, and there's also a colleague of Greece who said what we consider a region, I'd say what I'd say and the atar became a region and municipalities and the city and the county and the statistical region. And how to discuss documents where we're not exactly sure what the region is, how to define who we belong to, whether we're county, statistical regions, larger, smaller, seems to be something to discuss but not the right time. Also, if we were to measure and measure as any strategy and this one should by some parameters, I would say that this is not the time to discuss what the quality of power index is now because this power that we now have and we're all together at the end in it, someone by force, someone nice, I don't know how someone would evaluate us. So our index is to discuss one, here, I can't not smile, so the government's quality index, I asked how to measure it, but we copied it because the EU led it there, and then we passed it on to them to us. Now we should discuss it, and frankly we should translate it into our circumstances so that we may be able to get some further explanations to see how we measure ourselves. To be honest with you here from the parliamentary committee, I thought intensely about the government's quality index, and I was unable to put it in the context of some debate. And then we could also discuss why this strategy was not adopted earlier because if it had been adopted earlier, we would now be discussing the county assemblies on county strategies and not having the same situation that we cannot discuss because it has not been adopted nationalally. And then when we should talk about the bott up approach, he's gone. Because it's not worth discussing the bott up approach when county strategies didn't have, actually representatives of the county authorities didn't have the power to bring their strategy and say, you at national level, if you don't bring them in, we're going to go debate, we're going to bring you in and when you remember at 9:00 a.m. one day you'll debate but discuss how you'll adapt to our strategy. And I ask you what kind of county strategies this will be in 2017 while it still passes, while they prepare their own, harmonize, we will discuss strategies, county strategies by 2020 probably 2019. Uh, it's hard when I have to talk, and it's especially hard for me, I need to get back to my county and I need the mayor, I apologize, here, a little voice already remains, I need the mayor of Vukovar, I need to tell the deputy mayor that here in the strategy of the Danube-Sava project, the waterway arrangement is, and it's going to be, he's going to be, he's yelling, he's talking, he's talking about it, but he just seems to be with himself because no one's listening to him. He's not being listened to by anyone who doesn't want to understand that this project may not be a priority anymore, why this has not been discussed. And now we here need to discuss a document that will cause conflicts in my county and in the county of the minister. And I think we're going to have a debate very soon and where we can finally discuss this channel, who's in favour, who's against it. And here I see here I will have Thursday, the county assembly will be the same, and there it is mentioned in it, and again I have to ask the deputy mayor then whether we should discuss it or not, because there will be drama again and then they will retreat to the media as the conflicts pop up where they shouldn't be. Or we'll meet somewhere in the golden environment, as the authors of this strategy stated, says the total energy consumption is in the golden environment. I don't know how to explain to myself what the golden environment means if we're in Croatia, there seems to be much, much worse than we are, and somehow I don't have that feeling when we have conversations with people, when we're on the ground and when we need to discuss what we're going to do in the future, the debate comes down to it 'let's go, move out and it's hard to discuss. I've recently had a break here, so here I am to encourage a debate on local action groups, to raise the issue more so that it doesn't turn out that from the end, from the beginning or the end of the 6th month last year a public call is closed, that the funds are not yet in circulation, that this strategy will not give an answer either because, under that strategic objective, you don't mention LAGs. So they're not there at all, neither are they, nor are local development agencies. All we know is that the funds according to this will be given to regional development agencies, coordinators and the topic we have discussed many times is where the current minister knows the good situation and what we have discussed here, there is no need to discuss, the clock is high and I'm afraid it will not help, the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I don't have the strength to argue because a lot of hard words I'd say then. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45036	Panenic's exposure caused three replicas. The first one's a colleague of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Panenic, you mentioned that this strategy will most likely be discussed by the end of this 2020 strategy until all levels pass. You said and you tried to explain that concept within the strategy, you said about energy, it seems to me that we are in a golden environment, so I guess this strategy will be in the golden environment because at this time to explain the Regional Development Strategy, you mentioned only problems in your county. And mention now, let's say, problems in Dalmatia County, here's an example of roads. Well, I already thought there'd be a tent ahead and we haven't discussed it in front of the mayor promise the tunnel through Kozjak, and we haven't even discussed the strategy whether the fast road to Sinj, the meeting to Sinj Cetinsko end or whether the priority might be Ravca-Drvenik, who Minister Bačić then traffic now opened up in 2009, seems to me, opened up with President Sabora Bebić, made 2 meters and there was a break-in and now only passengers can talk about this strategy, start the ministers, this is humiliating to the Assembly, according to the mayors, which are obviously meaningful to themselves because they need to be much louder than in Rwanda at the worst times, and the fact is that this strategy is to talk about 21 hours, start the ministers, this is humiliating to the mayors, which are obviously the mayors themselves, because they need to be much louder than in terms of health care, where we don't have 2 children in Croatia. It's centralized, but it's because we have a nine o'clock strategy going on on HTV about bathing costumes whether the president of the Parliament or I will wear bathing suits in the shape of Ivana Lesandric's dress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45038	Comrade Panenić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45039	Maybe this is how the only way to be sarcastic is to turn this golden environment that we have, here's the 9 o'clock is the golden middle so that in some worse version it could be midnight, and maybe the lawyer will be at midnight, and then she'll say it's not the golden middle anymore. And you mentioned that about energy, let's say strategy, and about this energy problem that we have, and we're in the golden middle. In the middle of the gold, it's only going to collect electricity from 170 kunas because we're the golden middle. Imagine if we weren't a golden environment then it would have gathered 340 kunas and imagine then to discuss it, probably today the debate on the carbons Agency would have waited not at midnight, but after midnight, because they wouldn't have found any more justification to explain to people what the golden environment is. Also, you will also need to explain to your people why I don't know, in Slavonia we have a project, you don't have a project there, why you are better developed, the area of Sinj and surrounding settlements, why that road there towards Metkovic was not built. There's probably a reason why we belong under the golden environment, they helped us out more, so here's just people moving out, just no jobs, but we have a road. Therefore, the golden environment is a broad term and it is good that we have opened the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45040	Second replica in the golden middle, Nicola Grmoy. Because there's a third, no, there's a third.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45041	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Panenić, here is my colleague Bulj, said it is a shame that at this time, we will receive an announcement this morning that this point of the Regional Development Strategy is very important and important. I think my colleague Bulj is certainly half the number of replicas and half the minutes of speaking here in the Assembly, and most of that time he was talking about the strategy of regional development and indexation. So I think that this important and important topic that apparently fellow Bulj knows well about the key problems of this country and this society, it is unfortunate that this is how we discuss the important topic so late, and what has to be recognised by Minister Žalac and Minister Tolusic, which is very well co-operated, a good PR. The situation in Croatian agriculture has never been worse than it is now at the time of Minister Tolusic. So we have one general cataclysm in the Neretva Valley, knew the situation with imports of foreign agricultural products, low purchase prices, so absolutely nothing is going on in this matter, but the minister is making a lot of efforts, big resources in the PR, he's welcome to have the situation he created at the very beginning, what he did in particular with these inspections and everything else, but he sent a message that he wants to change things in Croatian agriculture and nothing really happens. The same thing is with what you fellow Panenić were saying about the project "Slavonia", it's pure fog, clean PR, it's about a set of projects from a certain area then we could have, I don't know, Dubrovnik-Neretva project, project Dalmatia, project Istria, meaning clean PR, clean fog sold to us from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45042	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45043	Dear comrade Grmoya, I am pleased to see that in these late hours when we should not discuss the Strategy of the Regional... Can I? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] When Shouldn't We Discuss about the regional development strategy, and the topic, I find it difficult to talk about, and I'm glad you mentioned the project "Slavonia", of course, we all expect a lot, so when disappointment and then it breaks you down like a man coming from that area. [[Is to warn him?]] And here's what would be good for you and my colleague Bulj when he talks and all of us together, maybe the minister and her team would be here and listen to it, get a draft new strategy. So, as the people of the field want me to say, just the administrative people who come to some meetings but the real needs, then that strategy would be more life-saving, then we'd probably get involved all the more in the debate because in the end, a couple of us here are now discussing how it's not a good time to discuss the strategy, let alone to discuss some of the ingredients that are indecisive. Because this strategy opened up, pointed to a lot of problems. Not all of them, but he doesn't offer a single solution. And we now need to discuss how we will be better when we adopt the strategy, and we know by 2020 it is simply waiting for the mandate to pass and that time will pass and that it will eat us. Therefore, the strategy is what appears to be a political survival, not a strategy to make development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45044	Thank you. The third replica is the esteemed colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45045	Thank you, Mr. President. This is now a situation that we of our ministers already have a proposal for a third strategy in this Croatian Assembly. So far, we have waited even nine years for all these strategies. We've been waiting for this four, and now we have a situation that within six months to a year there's a strategy ahead of us. You and I are colleagues in making a specific type of strategy, and you mentioned that they are not mentioned in this strategy at all, i.e. that local action groups are not mentioned at all. On page 10, if we subtract content and the term, it is the first page, so it was enough to read the first page of this strategy to just mention integrated territorial strategies. Among them are mentioned, so urban agglomeration strategies that have experience, and you and I have a lot of experience, we know that there are colleagues who have experience in the strategies that are being adopted, so at the level of a local, edifice strategy, means led by a community. They were mentioned already on page 10 if you missed seeing it, just to mention it here. Because it's not good to be telling the data that something is left out in this strategy that isn't. We had three strategies that were high-quality. But this one of all three I have to admit is technically best written, structured with contributions, with that key part of 12 pages that is summed up, clearly understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45046	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45047	Thank you, colleague, we've known each other a long time, so we can discuss it very well. I'd just say that this strategy has been working since 2014, so it's not made now, it's done oho-ho time, so it's going on. If it's made in these few months, correct me. If it means since when? Here's what I see is that the secretary of state is nodding, so, well, that's why I'm saying it's made, so in these six, seven, eight months it's been in there. It's not that, but I wouldn't go into it any further. I've seen this, I've been distracted by what the LAGs are primarily mentioned within the objectives of island areas and are mentioned there. But this is how it is. Objective 1. Enhancing quality of life, fostering sustainable territorial development. Priority 1.3. Support to assisted areas, with development of specificities. Measure 1.3.1. Supporting the development of assisted areas. There's no mention of LAG. And in that part, I don't know if we're reading any more versions. This is about goals, and the goals are not on page 10, but where concrete measures need to be taken to realize. ... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] [[There's all the paper you want.]] Mostly I'm only talking about knowing very well that approach to regional rural integration. The two of us, if we were to discuss it, would certainly put it in this strategy because it's the only way. Because we now have through this tax reform that has been made, for example, that the worker who lives in Vukovar has more rights than the worker who lives in my municipality who is neighbouring because, I don't know this government, Minister Maric did not want to understand that if the benefits were lifted, he would abolish everyone. No, he left the town of Vukovar, and we who died from my community, where it was killed to tell dozens of people, are at the end of the second row citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45048	Thank you. We move on to the discussion of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45049	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia will support the Croatian Democratic Community club by the end of 2020. Here's the first thing I'm going to do when and how this strategy started, because it was a question, and I don't think my colleagues did a good job of studying it when they didn't even notice it. We are pleased to see that it has started with the creation of an analytical basis for the development of the Regional Development Strategy. The production methodology was based on a modern approach to the participation of key stakeholders from public, private, academic and civil society sectors. The development of the strategy was supported professionally by the Zagreb Economic Institute. It lasted from September 2015 until July 2016 and then began the consultation process with the interested public. The draft strategy was also referred to in the process of showing the state administration body and all other relevant stakeholders. There have been detailed and quality analyses of all segments of society since the movement, ageing migration, unemployment, education, health care etc. Then the segment of the economy and space and the environment, which includes spatial development, transport, rail infrastructure, river maritime and intermodal transport, and developmental management. It has been established in all segments of strength and weakness, and different ones for continental Croatia where we have 14 counties and for the Adriatic where we have 7 counties and then opportunities and threats. Unfortunately, we must say that the weaknesses in all segments of development have far surpassed forces, but yet key forces have been identified and all significant opportunities have been identified. During the development of strategies, there was a lot of talk today about the Croatian statistical so-called NUC2 regions that are really large in terms of Croatia, but are small in European terms and there is an emphasis on heterogeneity within these NUC2 regions. And therefore, the spatial coverage for the implementation of sectoral SWOT workshops is defined on the basis of the findings and recommendations of scientific and professional works dealing with the regionalisation of Croatia and on the other hand that our counties are relatively small, statistical regions of heterogeneous, therefore they are divided into 5 spatial units. So we have, northern Croatia, central, eastern where Slavonia and Baranja, Istria, Lika and Primorje, and southern Croatia Dalmatia. In particular, it has been concluded that these are complex problems and therefore they need to be addressed at several levels and through the cooperation of key participants of different professions. This is a plan document setting out the objectives and priorities and how they are achieved and implemented. The Government's 2016-2020 mandate programme found that regional development policy should help the central government in cooperation with local and regional units, but what is extremely important to us is that this should be the basis for withdrawing as much European funding and co-financing from the state budget. The strategy, as we heard, defined three strategic objectives of policy, regional development. Under 1 increase in quality of life by encouraging sustainable territorial development. 2. increasing the specificity of the regional economy and employment. 3. systematic management of regional development. And then each of these goals was developed through priorities and measures. In each priority, it is defined from 3 to 5 development measures, etc. The total estimated value of the strategy for the first three-year period is 32 billion 264 million kuna. What the Minister did not say in the opening speech, I would point out. The highest financial value has exactly the 1st objective on which 95.9% of the funds are planned, while the 2nd remaining 3.9, and only 0.2% for target 3. But it is important to know that, within this framework of the first strategic objective, there is an expected synergy of different kinds of development of society, from space, environment, education, education, sport, affirmation of cultural identity, development of civil society. I'd say practically anything. And special attention is given to supporting areas and areas with developmental specificities, as well as to providing support for environmental protection and energy efficiency. The second strategic objective is to support the development of regional and local economies, the financing of entrepreneurship zones, the activation of state assets, etc. There's a real need for less resources. While the third strategic objective for which we provide the smallest funding is to bring public policies and laws into line at national and regional level in all sectors, as well as improved cross-sectoral cooperation in the preparation and implementation of regional development projects, which means that there should be a need to change the laws in the first place. It is also the prescribed way and system of monitoring and reporting at the level of strategic objectives, measures, but also activities of programmes and projects. We heard that a strategic environmental impact assessment procedure was carried out for the strategy. Further development of the strategy of defined measures is on concrete activities, programmes and projects carried out in a specific three-year development and will be covered by an action plan, which, of course, follows us now. Even though we've already got the contexts of the action plan. The strategy was designed with the intention of completing sectoral strategies, i.e. It aims to ensure a balanced impact of sectoral strategies on space, in order to ultimately achieve a uniform regional development. The main advantages of the new strategy compared to the one we have had since 2011-2013, which is more concrete and can be quantified as an action plan, as an implementing document serving its operationalisation over a given three-year period, thus contributing to the improvement of the monitoring process. Through the definition of concrete activities, programmes and projects, and the criteria for including them in the action plan, we get one of the instruments for implementation of the regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and the other instruments are the financial plan, the report on the implementation of the action plan, but are also the most important sources of funding. Of course, in order to implement this strategy, it is necessary to amend and supplement the legislative framework, that is, what I was saying at the beginning and in the first place refers to the Law on Regional Development, the Law on Supported Areas, the Law on Islands and the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. The strategy is focused on more innovative development concepts and approaches, new development opportunities for Croatian regions, cities and municipalities from international practice. That's one segment I've paid particular attention to. And I believe here are colleagues of the same suggestion, to see little, what is innovative, which is what can be applied to the Republic of Croatia and from international practice. Like that. The approach to development based on the site means identifying and mobilising internal potentials, what we have from human resources, infrastructure and wealth, and the location of which it is spoken and where to work and invest. Furthermore, the circular economy, this morning we talked about sustainable waste management, which means we are no longer going to that linear economy, when we come from raw materials to consumption and waste, but by recycling and reusing these same materials we can use. Furthermore, the resilience of regions, sustainable development resistant to external shocks, green cities, smart city, social innovation, cultural and creative industries, branding regions and local units, green economy and economy, further, the social economy related to the third sector of the economy between private and public and includes organisations such as organisations, non-profit organisations, cooperatives, trusts, social enterprises and the like. Furthermore, sitting and the white economy, the blue economy, usually some will think it refers to our marine part, no, this is based on technological innovations on nature. Furthermore, the quality of the government which essentially involves low corruption, high protection of the rule of law, efficiency and responsibility of the authorities. Here's counterpart Panenic you just said what a quality of government is. You do not listen to me, so you will hear what the quality of the government is, when you have not already read it yourself. Our vision and club HDZ supports this strategy, it is a vision and should be Croatia 2020. Country of the regions of prosperity and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45050	We've got five replicas. First of all, he's a distinguished colleague, Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45051	My colleague, of course, it's good what the strategy is, what it's done, what the minister's efforts have been made to do, but it's so humiliating for the MPs, for the public, for the people who expect solutions, for our citizens to be debated in the middle of the night, and by half of the night, it's been debated for at least nine hours, even the screen can't handle the screen anymore. This is the humiliation of this strategy in which it's written so much on paper, it's miracles. Now we can explain it both ways, we can critically, we can joke, but the fact is that there is a Slavonia Project. He says counterpart Panenic expects a few projects that have been united and said here we have the Slavonia Project, which we will see. In his municipality, they are not the same conditions as the citizens and taxes as in the other. In Dalmatia, too, there should be a project, and we expect projects. I'd like to discuss it clearly and loudly, explain down to people, if they can't do it to the county. You're talking, here's the mention of five regions, that five regions then that are interested in the county, as small as they are. They're not the little ones they're very important to embezzlement, very important. And the strategy says five regions matter. It tells us the EU that you respect so much and you are calling for it, five regions, the county for funds is not enough. So this strategy is a serious story. Around the roads, you mentioned the roads, you mentioned the railroad. So do we even have a railroad, until 2020, since we joined the EU every year, the worse conditions are in rail transport and transport and cargo and infrastructure, it is well known. So we're referring to something that's hidden in this strategy, and the public can't hear. I'm sorry there's no screen I don't know now you're gonna let me free thank you President. You can, you can, you can confront, you see and the technique cannot withstand these efforts, I Minister indeed, this is the humiliation of your strategy, your efforts come in this hour. You've tried to pull this off, you've tried to tell the President of the Parliament yet this is a serious matter of the Regional Development Strategy. People expect us to speak loudly about what's inside, and this is the easiest thing for someone to write on paper. Thank you very much. I'll cut myself short, Mr. President. It's not much of a minute. Thank you. I've been waiting for the technique to come back if it's really more and the technique can't take it. And the Minister would really be the best thing to do is to pull this off, and you're going to have a lame debate to have a serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45052	But I let you go on purpose because you asked for half an hour to study, and in ten minutes you learned so much that you could talk, expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45053	Thank you very much. Well, I think we know how to work more often at 21.26 minutes and every point is very, very important to one of our citizens that nothing we talk about and do here should be a joke. The biggest joke is when you get materials or strategy 21 June on your benches and then ask for 30 minutes to study it today. And then after ten minutes of participation in the debate, it's the biggest joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45054	Dear colleague Ante Babic replica number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45055	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in fact, through what you were saying, respected colleagues Martinchev-Jurič I wanted to repeat, and it's good for the public to repeat it because I realized through the steps of individual representatives tonight as if they had received this strategy 20 minutes before this debate on benches because it was so transferred to the public, and some of the opposition colleagues said that it started in 2014 until today that the public debate lasted until 4 September, and that afterwards it was a strategic environmental impact assessment. It is obvious that the opposition in the inability to offer quality awareness of all its failures when they were to adopt a strategy they left this session, which certainly is not good. But when you talk about it, so you should say for God's sake that there were both mayors and units of local self-government and the Partnership Council of continental Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia, 28 interviews were held, public consultations, the ministries, the Economic Institute, so for three years it's been working on this strategy, and someone's been asking questions today why 20 minutes before this is being discussed here tonight and in this hour. It was debated in these assembly benches until half the night and after half the night, we never had in practice at least of the opposition ever scheduled a point. We never knew what we were going to discuss, it was the right of the chairman, they determined those points, but many people forget it. And that's not good. It is not good for the public to talk about this important document, that it is a document that has now come to the Assembly. And one more thing, this strategy has passed the parliamentary committees as far as I know, some have been in favor and some against the opposition, but I don't think that's right or correct. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45056	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Branka, you said that these goals in the strategy stated that undeveloped parts of Croatia, so the goal is one of the, that the more undeveloped parts of Croatia will reach the more developed parts of Croatia. So, I would like to say that we really need to take care of the measures when it comes to stopping the development of more developed parts of Croatia that are now the engine of this development of economic and all over the Republic of Croatia and that we need to be very careful and subtle about taking these measures and especially about the indexation which is therefore the subject of a further application. Because I think we have to make sure that one of the measures from which it will be financed is, however, to reduce this imbalance is also the state budget. The state budget here is dominantly the most full of these developed parts of Croatia, and we really need to make sure that this fiscal potential of the state itself is not diminished, because the resources we have must be used to make as much use of as possible of the state budget and that the more quality we can then help these underdeveloped areas. But we must also admit that these more developed parts of Croatia are far from EU standards, and yesterday we had a debate on the Transport Strategy. Here we have to say that we do not have a connection with the railway with the rest of the state in Istria, so we are going through Slovenia to Zagreb, so we have to invest a lot to strengthen these economic potentials, so that we can participate even more in thus reducing the imbalance of financial in the Republic and therefore in development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45058	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45059	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Kliman, it's really sad, and that's what I was talking about on my Committee on Regional Development and the EU Funds that in 2014, the former coalition government negotiated the use of European funds for example. Construction projects of kindergartens and nursing homes, health homes in towns of more than 5,000 inhabitants could not work. And you still can't work, unfortunately. So we can do a cycling trail in a village of several hundred inhabitants and for that we have the means, we have the means to edit large cities and urban agglomerations and then a settlement like my town of Vodice in such places is not possible to work n kindergartens, not a nursing home, not a firehouse or anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45060	4. replicated colleague Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45061	Thank you very much. Here I would have just noticed a little bit in this debate, my colleague Babić had well complemented it, in fact the exposition of a colleague when he said that 3 years was working, so still, now let's agree, if 3 years were working on that strategy then probably, or 3 years or less, but I still felt that it had been working since 2014. What is very important about this strategy as you mentioned in your presentation most of the funds go for quality, improve the quality of life, is that right in those areas that are being helped. I only regret that these funds do not go to another goal, the one for the development of the economy. So we're going to have our areas, our roads, our paths, our bridges and everything else going on, we're just not going to have people because they won't have anywhere to work. Maybe they'll work a little bit like baustels while that restoration takes place, then all the way to Ireland and Germany because you don't have a job. We became world champions in infrastructure building. And not once again to catch an economy and say that the economy is a priority, that it's not just an economy when you build a road or some other infrastructure facility, but it's an economy when you produce products that we export from our country. And this orientation of regional development, if it remains only on the infrastructure, we'll have a reconstruction program that when it's finished, people have nothing to go back to because it's not just going back to their own house, but also have some production facility where people work and are happy with their work and earning their lives for their family. Therefore, I think that in the strategy itself we must take care of priorities and here after all these partner councils, after all those involved, the result is finally going back to what is of interest, primarily the lobby, which is building infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45062	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45063	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Panenic, I would really ask you to read the strategy because it stands exactly as goal no. One, no. 2, no. 3 and what is true is the increase in quality of life by encouraging sustainable territorial development, increasing regional competitiveness and employment, so that we have developed and drawn a line on new development opportunities and from international practice, means access to development based on location, identification, mobilising of internal potentials, etc., circular economy. Here, if only you'd listened more carefully to me, you'd hear that. And once again, I'm going to mention what you've been laughing at, and I'm going to look at it as a quality of government, what the quality of government is. Well, it's thought, it means low corruption, high protection of the rule of law, higher level... It's the quality of the government we have to strive for. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Are we doing a strategy? Are we doing a strategy? So that's what we should be trying to do. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45064	Comrade Bačić, fifth replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45065	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Branka, I have come to you for the reason that the time of the debate of the strategy itself is troubled and that it is appropriate to discuss the strategy at nine o'clock in the evening. I would just remind myself, I'm sorry there isn't, and here comes my colleague, Glasovac, who doesn't have a colleague from the SDP, but several times in the previous term, I said it was very important that the strategic document was discussed in the Assembly, so I said it was unacceptable that the strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia that in 12 seconds then the government discussed it at the government meeting and that the strategy had not come to the Parliament at all. So, as important as this strategy is for Croatia's regional development, almost as important is the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and we as parliamentary representatives have not seen that strategy at all because it has not come to the Parliament, but has discussed the government. Another important document, also a development strategy, for example, rail infrastructure. Under the Law on Railways there is no provision for the debate to be held by the Parliament. No medium-term document, then the SDP government discussed in the Croatian Parliament, no important strategic document. And we didn't have the opportunity to discuss it because the laws found that it would bring a government or even a resolute ministry. Here after we have 20 days in the Assembly on the benches of the Regional Development Strategy, we now have a problem with whether it is discussed at 6 p.m., at 2 p.m. or at 6 p.m. For me, it doesn't make any difference if someone wants to discuss it, he could prepare himself, and he could discuss it tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45066	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45067	Here's what I'd do, I'd just add it up, and then a fellow pitcher, so everyone we've got experience, we know when it's brought and when it's debated about the state budget. It is the most important act to be adopted for the following year, it is always that debate up to 1 in the night. ... It doesn't matter... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45068	Okay. We could have started with this point, but then some other important point would come in the evening, so there would also be an objection, and that's clear to you because we have tomorrow's important points that will take place both in the morning and in the afternoon and in the evening and the day after that too. And now it's time for a representative who is never too late, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45069	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this Regional Development Strategy is naturally doomed to failure. And you'll say why? So because in this system where the central bank is a currency exchange, the whole country, and therefore all its regions, are doomed. Almost all counties are in debt, almost all cities and municipalities are in debt, many companies are in debt, most of them are in debt. Those who do not owe are not in Croatian ownership, the money is leaving our country anyway. And the question must be asked is it possible for Croatia's regional development to succeed and the whole country to remain in debt slavery? It is a question of whether an individual, a member of the family, can financially prosper if the entire family is economically ruined. It can't because every single country region will essentially share its fate, because the policy run by the central bank, it reflects on all parts of the country. All the parts. So if the central bank says we won't broadcast the money. Okay, you'll have indifference all over the country in all the regions. If the central bank says the money will be broadcast exclusively as a credit in Croatia, and the external one that flows into the internal one, and for the payment of interest money does not exist, has never been created, you will have a debt crisis. You're going to have some evictions. And you may be convinced that you are doing the best and that the strategy is the best, but I guarantee you, when that strategy is completed, so in 2020, you might come here, maybe you won't, maybe we'll meet on the street, I'll ask you ladies and gentlemen, is there more people in Croatia today than before? Is there more people in Slavonia than before? Is there more people in Sisak than before? Is there more people in Varazdin than before? Is there more people in the river than before? And you're going to tell me that in total, the population is falling. That there are rare places that prosper. I'm going to ask you if the debt of blocked citizens is bigger than 2018? You'll say it, Ivan, it's bigger. I'm going to ask you, is the debt of the state bigger than it was before? You'll tell Ivan, he's longer than he was. I'll ask you if there are fewer children in primary schools? The first is 70,000 less registered, my people, in the last 12 years. That's how many students have fallen. And whatever information I'm going to ask you, you're just going to say that Ivan, the smaller number of employees, that Ivan's taxes are higher, the impositions are higher. And the question arises which will then be the success of this strategy? What's that? There won't be one. But then you'll say look, I was just sent here to present this strategy. I'm not the person who came up with that strategy. Maybe this is just some copy-paste, maybe this is just some formal legal act that had to be made. Order works, it had to be written, we wrote it. But the question is, what is the meaning of this act? The point of the act is to create an illusion in society that the state has a plan and strategy, that the state is planning something. To run the development of the region. That citizens in these regions will live better, but by the nature of things if the trend in which the country has been going for the last 20 years is negative and if you continue to go that same way, and this strategy does not change the country's macroeconomic direction, ha it is logical to expect a continuation of the path to destruction. And I can speak here until Judgment Day to you that until you change monetary policy, until the role of the central bank changes, we will not leave the debt crisis, the economic crisis, the demographic crisis and any other crisis. And you'll be saying no Ivan doesn't matter what monetary policy is like, we'll achieve good results. What good results? However, I would dare say that this is not only a HDZ problem. So HDZ is not the only one who led the country through this monetary and economic policy. The HDZ as a party actually only walks I would dare say the way that it has paved this neoliberal concept. So, some more power from Brussels, from Washington, they said your country would go that way. And the team that Brussels and Washington made along the way were also colleagues from the SDP. And what is the end of that road for our people? Moving people out of the country? Is that the way? Is this the development of the region? It's not. Is there a greater government debt that will lead us to a better tomorrow? He won't. Is the sale of state property something that will save us? After all, if anyone's an expert on privatisation, it's you gentlemen from HDZ. You're world-class experts for that. You could do it at the speed that you were doing not evictions but, but also dissuasions, but primarily privatisation and you could have won the Nobel Prize. This I don't know if anyone in the world has managed to make such a venture and so much capital grouping, give such a small group of people. And you now assure the citizens that you will continue to take Croatia to a better future. Now, since August, he's been collecting electricity, collecting electricity. Is that part of that regional development program? And it collects electricity to everyone in all the regions. It says from next year the residence tax is increasing. This year, VAT rises from 13% to 25% for hosts. Is that your plan? Today a lady wrote to me one, said Ivan, I had a great program, I wanted to open a pastry shop. I needed a $300,000 loan for that. I called HBOR, they said we don't have any money for you, we can't give you, you don't meet the conditions. You don't meet the requirements! She says, well, it's a little 300 thousand kuna loan. I said, ma'am, there was one man who was a priority, who already owed billions, but the government, or HBOR, decided to tell that man, we're going to give what it takes 300, 400 million. Never mind. Where's he gonna come back from? Who cares? No one asks him if he's creditworthy? So, Todorovic didn't ask where he'd get those loans back from, nor to give guarantees for their return. Todoric did not stock the assets that are worth the loan, he was given it in beautiful eyes. And the lady who asked for 300,000 kuna for a pastry shop, she can't be trusted with pretty eyes. And why is that? Because it's not part of those 200 families that are privileged in every sense. And this paradox where you give those who have even more, and those who have little take and what little they have is ultimately your policy mirrored in practice, it's your policy mirrored in practice. And how do you think this strategy will change that? I call on these authors of the Regional Development Strategy to come out here to this pay phone and say from this pay phone, here's the region for which we have set up the programme, and in two years, that is, in three years' time, GDP growth, more employment, more citizens will live, more students will be in schools, there will be fewer debts from these cities, municipalities, companies and citizens living in those regions. Are the creators of this development plan, are they ready to do it? No, they're not. And why didn't they? So because they know that the result of their plan and program will be nothing. This development program of the regions they're working on, I'd compare it to that legalization of illegal construction. So, you've invested a lot of money in a lot of paper, and what's the result? What new value was created? Not at all. The only new value created by the legalization program of illegal objects is a pile of paper, that's all. A bunch of paper. How much did this legalization raise? How much money has been thrown into legalization and how much GDP has therefore grown? What new value was created? Not at all. So is this development program. It's ink on paper, it's called... in English that represents nothing, that means nothing and that won't change anything. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Unfortunately. But in order to satisfy the form of paper suffers everything and that is why this strategy is written, which is why we are here today and we need to discuss this strategy. Unfortunately, this strategy will not change anything. What is the main problem this strategy does not touch, and the main problem ladies and gentlemen is I repeat the role of the central bank. You'll probably wonder, Pernar, why you keep telling us that. And then I'll explain to you, or quote one Orthodox priest. The Orthodox pop every time believers came to worship, he kept repeating the same things. And then one day they came and said, “Well, Pope, why do you always tell us the same thing? ” And he asked them, “Well, have you applied what I have spoken to you in your lives? ” And they say, "We didn't." Well, you see, that's why I have to keep telling you that. So I have to pay you here every day, every hour that the loans in this system can't be returned. If this had led to a credit and economic crisis, and without monetary reform, the state and the people living in it had been sentenced to debt slavery. And what's most tragic is that you're not able to see it. And why aren't you able to see it? That's because you're personally fine. If you were, by any chance, 60 HDZ deputies, if you had all the conclusions about the dissuasion over the next month, you'd all start talking about the credit crisis and the insolvency of the loan. But you're doing great. And to the citizens who are in a blockade, under the roof, they are in a coma, but no one asks them anything. It's you who decide, control the media, control the education system, and therefore human minds. The greatest conspiracy of the modern world is money as a debt. Money as a debt, the biggest fraud of global proportions. It's a global conspiracy, dear ladies and gentlemen. And you're gonna say crazy Pernar's talking nonsense. Well, God forbid I'm talking nonsense and you're right. God forbid you can pay back your government debt. God forbid you can start economic growth. God forbid you can stop the escape of young people from the country, God forbid you can reduce the debt of blocked citizens and reduce their numbers. Oh, my God. But you and the ladies and gentlemen of HDZ yourself know you can't do that, but the reason why you can't is not because you wouldn't want to or because you couldn't, but because you don't want to deal with the cause of the problem. And this strategy is just a continuation of the policy of concealing the main problem and the only solution to the country's credit and economic crisis. And that's not unfortunately, this strategy that you gave us is the only solution to monetary reform. To lift the currency clause on loans and to make the state finally broadcast the kunas, to stop this snooze, to unblock the citizens and to get the loans back. If this is not done, this horror, this horror that is being led in Croatia 94' from the moment the CNB is turned into a currency exchange room will continue. I hope that one day my words will reach your hearts. Because depending on what your hearts will be, it will be the fate of our people. If your hearts remain firm, the people will perish with you. Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45070	Your words have come to my heart, but time is up. We have three replicas. The first is distinguished counterpart Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45071	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You've denied me a moment ago a chance for a replica, so I'm going to take it now, and maybe my colleague Pernar knows the answer to that question. It was actually sent to Minister and colleague Juricev. So you mentioned that you have detailed analysis that you were working on the data that you collected to create this development strategy, regional. And more than once, the minister herself said she would rely on regional development agencies and expect them to, not only withdraw EU funds, but expect them to help implement the objectives set out in this strategy. So I'm interested, since it is, therefore, that you will rely on them, and that you have analysis and that you have detailed information, are you familiar with all the details relating to regional development agencies, are you familiar with the staff of regional development agencies? When I say when I do, I mean their references, their expertise, their work experience in the real sector, their experience in writing and implementing projects, and I also think of the measure that you're actually going to look at their effectiveness. Why do I say efficiency? Because large funds are allocated from the budget to employees of regional development agencies, and their work is not nearly justified by their existence, you could say so. So I'm wondering, do we have that data, do we have any measures that we're going to monitor their effectiveness, or is everything going to stay the way you said in the quality of the government we've had so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45072	Since you are a replica of your colleague Pernar, he will answer all of these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45073	Dear colleagues, you see, there is no government, unfortunately a solution. But keep in mind that until monetary policy changes in Croatia, the country cannot prosper even if you come to power, Mrs Nincevic. Tomorrow, if you were a specimen, and if the role of the CNB were what it is, you'd still be a credit crisis and evictions and blocked citizens, etc. The economic crisis, i.e. the credit breakdown, is the necessary consequence of the kuna fixing for the euro, i.e. this currency model. This is the simplest and most obvious truth that the Croatian public does not want to see. The academics Slavko Pulić tell you that Stjepan Zdunic tells you Zvonimir Balletić and they all tell you, you have Guste Santini, he also understands this issue of course fixation. All the academics see it. But unfortunately, the politicians sitting here can't see. And you Bridge gentlemen when you were in power, you weren't talking about the problem of the wrong monetary policy. You didn't talk about the fact that the CNB has to stop being a currency exchanger, but only Bozo Petrov said we'll ask for a revision of the CNB, and we won't change monetary policy, that's what Bozo Petrov said. But one person here gives me hope, and that is Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrkovic. And you know why? Because I know when the Living Wall comes to power that he'll be the first to be in favour of monetary reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45074	We'll wait for that. Okay. We have further replicas of dear colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45075	Col. Pernar, all the strategies that have been implemented in Croatia were mostly dead letter on paper, and this strategy should have been expected to have a serious debate and serious timing, mainly according to the MPs chosen by the people, mainly from the areas that have been forgotten. And the fact that you said when it came into the EU was also the same story was that everything would bloom like what is now written on these papers in the strategy, that everything would be ok, but the fact and you hit there you can attack the Bridge, these, those, those, but guess me, I keep saying that as a regulator, it really affects all the processes that you mention. It allows foreign banks to take EUR 4.5 billion annually on fees and fees to citizens... without interest, without anything. Imagine 4.5 billion kuna a year. Look at the renewable energy sources that this strategy says medium. With renewable energy sources, we now have to take foreigners from us because of the wind power plants taken to take a billion and a half kuna a year, so just on this sort of thing. The CNB has also affected agricultural processes, so look what agriculture is like, we have the most popular minister right now, and agriculture is sinking lower and lower. Well, there's no stock fund at all, no more milk production, milk industry very important, no more simply disoriented, disorganized. And this strategy would have the tribal to show direction, not on paper, but to say a lot of Croatian men's robberies, here's enough through fees and commissions of 4.5 billion kuna to invest in Dalmatia, for example. Or in Slavonia on an annual level, that means the least fee, not interest, not other looters, it allowed them to do whatever they wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45076	Thank you. My colleague Pernar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45077	My dear Miro you know what I will tell you, unfortunately as long as import products are cheaper than domestic, domestic production does not have what it has to be condemned to fail. And why is domestic production more expensive than German production? Because Croatia leads the policy of overrated currency and as long as the kuna is overrated, as long as the exchange rate of kuna is unreal, as long as more import goods can be bought than should be bought if the exchange rate is real, until we as a society fail, production economies will fail, and hence every other economy, agriculture will fail, hotels that will be built with imported material, will sell import food or tourism will generate imports. That's the problem, Mr. Bull. The fees and fees are one would say add-on to the problem, but the main problem is monetary policy itself. It's not just the CNB's regulatory role, it's their monetary policy that's the main problem. In monetary policy, the CNB has failed, a servant's monetary policy is being conducted. And as long as there's no development plans going to help us, none. This is all just a show for the people, a show that the government is doing something, and it's basically doing nothing. If you don't believe me and my words, for God's sakes, in 2020, we'll experience, I hope everyone here who sits, we'll be living witnesses that it will be worse than today, and that this strategy will not do anything, but colleagues from the HDZ will still adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45078	Thank you. Third replica, dear fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45079	Dear colleague Pernar, you have asked a very large question in your debate, whether this will be better. How would it be better if you might have followed the counseling in Požega now when the Croatian mayors were there, everyone was happy to go home because the message was probably transmitted to them that it was all good, that in Croatia it was great and that after the implementation of this strategy the roses will bloom. I'm sorry that you're not a parliamentary representative of Slavonia, you'd be invited there, and you'd hear that, and I'm sorry I didn't eat somehow after the first session of the Slavonia project's advice, there was some bitter taste left. A colleague put it qualityly as if there was a UNISON debate, as at the North Korean Party convention, and then I didn't want to participate again in such a session, because I disagreed with that model. But definitely that a number of questions can be opened at such sessions and the second time here I will recommend that all MPs be invited if all mayors can come then and that all MPs and that we do not have to wait here to interrogate this late than we would ask there. These mayors they found out about the Regional Development Strategy now on July 3rd, so they had time to prepare themselves, I'm sorry they weren't with us, but they probably would have given us their impressions and impressions and said it would be better. Well, here's your mayor actually that, you're not but your colleague you have the mayor of the old-new but I don't know if they're not him, so I hope there will be appropriate moments where we'll be better informed and know a lot better than this which questions we open, and we need to adopt something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45080	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45081	Dear fellow Panenic. Unfortunately, it is not only at these sessions as at the North Korean Workers' Party's party conventions. So unfortunately on HRT. It's only on HRT, one opinion can be heard. And you know what that is? This is not the opinion of a particular party, but rather the opinion of the ruling party. So whatever party the ruling HRT is, that's what he's thinking. And every other opinion on HRT has no room. I remember when 500 people fled Croatia weekly, the title was on HRT, Prime Minister Milanovic says every week we have 500 unemployed fewer. It's a HRT program. As General Glasovic said the other day, there is a lie, a great lie and statistics. They tell you when they present statistics, it turns out everything's great and you see that we're sinking down. And unfortunately, it's the people who support that policy. And watch out for the worst, fellow Panenic, and you will now be shocked, if by any chance Maric resigned you would continue to support HDZ and you might also vote for this regional development programme because you are whole, here says counterpart Boric. And you know how he knows? He knows Boric because you are all HDZ proposals put on your table to Minister Maric, 99% of them I was watching when you introduced a real estate tax MOST was for, [[Intruder: It's not true.]] Miro Bulj didn't, but the others did. [[Is it me?]] When VAT was raised to 25% of MOST was for VAT growth in catering 25% except Mira Bulj. All the politics of HDZ, everything they've implemented, you're together, you've spent with them and now you're talking against them and criticizing them. Now, they all know it, they remember as well as me and our citizens. Here, I hope you'll be honest in the future that what you think is rightly supported and wrongly condemned, thank you, regardless of whether you're in power or opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45082	Thank you. We're also going to an individual debate, colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45083	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, since it is a serious topic and indeed in this serious topic, this is what my colleague Pernar said in the end as well as a series of untruths about the MOST, he said for purely his reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not true that we voted for everything, nor is there an example here, nor is HDZ for our proposal, which everyone called for, nor is its holder of the list Juro Martinović, who is the minister here, i.e. The secretary of the ministry, neither Lovrinović nor... They're not unique. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what you could talk about. But about this law, at this time the minister, when Croatia is developing below Romania, under Bulgaria, when a meeting with the mayors is held in Požega to cloud Croatia's Savurdija plestura, in order to talk about regional development under camera lights, especially HTV, has been published all day, so that the MPs will come before us, if you can listen to the ministers, we know that you have June photos on your cell phone and the smiles of your assistants, but, or I will interrupt, there is no president to warn you, this is a serious matter, this is the minister's serious topic, the people are waiting for solutions. In Požega you made a play, to cover up Savudrija, so that, where we gave our seas, too, here I am sorry that it is not the President of the Parliament at this moment where, together, colleagues Bačić, who was also the secretary of HDZ, gave our sea, i.e. gave the Slovenians a pass without any need except for the courting of the servants of European friends Andrej Plenkovic, who was brought into chess mat position. And this strategy is just as out-of-date as not to talk about it. It is the fact of the minister and should really listen carefully to the speech of parliamentary representatives although at this time when the story is essentially seen what it is reduced to, when parliamentary representatives should be in their seats, it is when our citizens should hear the needs of those on the ground who give us and on the roads. When I ask about traffic, how in this strategy is it defined that through the county congregations we solve it and you say yourself that through 5 regions that counties are small? Is it necessary, here comes the Minister of County in this form or are they needed bigger? The strategy says they're too small. No, they're necessary. You know why they're needed? Because of the party base, because of the food chain. That's why they're needed. You're welcome to write down what I told you in the strategy. The fact is that if we talk about energy, where are we in energy? Somewhere in the middle, in the middle of the golden middle. Where does money go from renewable energy sources? How do we plan to do that? Is HEP going to sell or not going to sell? Your coalition partner says you need to sell HEP. He doesn't see his strategy we want to defend energy as a national, as a strategic national interest, where we have to have huge profits and be a regional player and beyond. We don't see it in strategies except what we're under Romania and what we're under Bulgaria. In rail transport, so here we talked a few days ago, colleague Kliman said that from Istria to Zagreb must go through Slovenia to Ljubljana. And the fact that we have rail infrastructures or transports or rail passenger transport better not have. Western films are best shot but neither are they because we are too slow trains for Western films, then they were much faster trains because from Osijek to Split we need 24 hours. It's been four years since we've been in the EU. We don't have that development potential, we have development potential, but the only thing we have is the county levels that are clearly in this document, and I'm interested in the minister's answer, and this document defines that the small counties are too small. Whether it's a fact or a need to pursue this strategy, laws, other laws of local self-government, regional, or we're gonna stay on this. Now we can talk about other topics, about agriculture, what is the strategy of agriculture? We're gonna go to the foreign agricultural land concession because people were building farms, and now these farms are empty because they've been calling people on too many commitments to raise loans, and in the end, what happened? The competition ate them because we didn't protect the domestic producer through the import lobby, of course the PR, the Ministry of Agriculture won't say that. Of course, he will be the most successful minister, however, I do not see that the cattle fund, Minister Tolusic, who promised himself as Regional Development Minister, in 2017 the change in the development index, which wrongly destroyed the Dalmatian Zagora, works like this, parts of Slavonia, an unfair index of development that only Sinju 20 million kuna took the budget, almost 50% of the budget. We won't talk about Vrgorec either, we don't want 35 local self-governments and even from Gorski Kotar, in municipalities and cities that don't have enough funds to maintain winter service, because they're huge. They also declared it a developed one. Is this strategy defined in the neighborhoods, here is the Dalmatian Zagora, since the county existed, and this is what the minister said that too little in this strategy, which he wrote, I don't know, since the counties, 100,000 people have evicted the counties of Split-Dalmatia, 100,000. Is it still the point just to keep the counties a food chain of employment within the county, numerous companies, or is what is said in the strategy? If it's too small of a county, it's written, you can find it in a strategy there. And this needs to be discussed seriously, people expect changes in these areas because, otherwise, agriculture and industry in these underdeveloped areas in 2/3 of Croatia do not have the same conditions, I will repeat it as here in Zagreb. Under the lights of this House, we must hear it in the assembly, that these people, who cry, let go, have to heaven injustice. We have a problem for ourselves today that we do not have water supply in Dalmatia, in large part of the village, in towns, in the hinterlands of towns and municipalities. Empty schools, water supply, so who will be at that school if we don't have water supply, Cetina 2 kilometers from the village of example, Ilovo, examples of the vervain area, the property area, have no water supply. In the trile area, for example. on... They don't have water supply, who lives, people went to Germany, and before and built now there's no survival, an empty village, that's a fact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can boast of development potentials, but the fact is that we have regional development is basically a strategy that will unfortunately remain a dead letter on paper, because the county is meant for itself. The purpose for themselves except for the orderly concession that they share very well, let's say the beaches, the mayors, the mayors who supported the law, who did not support any amendment, that these potentials, our resources that could serve in development, would not serve development. Since joining the EU, more and more emigrates, and this Assembly is supported unanimously by entry in this servant way. Unanimously, then Minister Jandrokovic was silent for arbitration, counterpart Bacic, who was high-ranking in HDZ, did not give us much resistance, the EU gave us. To give our territorial seas, and then again with that coaturine, not the dance, from our friend, Prime Minister Plenkovic, was Požega where she remembered the camera mainly, mainly HRT, all day we repeated the strategy where they collapse the HDZ strategy, where they say that the 5 regions are too small for the funds, except that it should be made public here. Here's some Minister Žalac saying, did she say that you should go to the regions as described in the funding strategy or do you need counties? Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45084	We've got three replicas. He's the first distinguished colleague of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45085	Dear colleague Bulj, as I have already said, means you are absolutely right about this strategy, meaning the very time in which we are discussing it, and it is extremely important, but also generally about the situation in our society and the state. And there he would agree with his colleague Pernar who says that there are always strategies, changes, the impression that something is changing, that things are going forward, and the situation in society is getting worse and worse, our young people are leaving the country, the state of agriculture, that's what I said, here you have repeated, it's never been worse. Farmers send me daily messages that they simply have to decide to throw their agricultural products, watermelons, peaches, pots, imports are too low, prices are too low, so the price of purchases, and we have a situation that we have a minister who practically only deals with personal promotion and nothing concrete for the situation in agriculture has done. You mentioned here, and I have to answer that means access to the highway, as far as the town of Metkovic is concerned, we do not have the Dubrovnik-Neretva project below, as there is this project "Slavonia" which is the same pure PR move. But we have the MOST project and I'm sure for Metkovic in this period that comes will do a lot of things. Because whatever I'm talking about in the Croatian Parliament or I'm referring to a parliamentary question, that thing is going down. Here is Minister Kujundzic's announcement of a daily hospital in Metkovic. I am convinced that this approach on the highway that I was starting with ministers Maric and Butkovic will also be resolved in these four years while HDZ is in power, but not because they care about Metkovic, but because it means they are afraid that MOST will profit from it. And then they remember when I mentioned Metkovic then remembers Metkovic and will get rid of it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] We have a project MOST.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45086	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45087	Well, yeah, I'd agree with you if it wasn't the time for the debate, but the fact that you said about your projects down at Metkovic's has a similar situation. That's what my colleague Bačić remembers about closing the birthplace when the son's maternity home was closed. There was a problem with me. You had to open it on the spot. I wasn't even a parliamentary representative then. It's just that there's been pressure, because the only thing they know how to get on the alcois is to get drunk by high-ranking guests. And we're friendly and of course, and close the maternity home. So the fast road to Sinj was also launched a year ago of feasibility studies, and we can also talk about a number of other projects. But that's not the only problem. The problem is, you've got a problem down here, and here's the problem with us. Now you're gonna have a blue alka. Recently, even in the parliament, alkari was visited by representatives of the Knights' Alkar society. I, like the ex-Alaric guy and the Parliament representative from Sinj proudly walked in here with a cap, I fought for all of it. And I wasn't even invited to a meeting of the delegation... [[You're not invited to a meeting.]] It was Mr. Bacho, as you said, Cacho from Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was there as a representative of the Knights' Alkar society no matter what I was trampled on during Sanader, because they hid the plates of the same people's habit, the same people's habit. I was a member of the Authority of the Knights' Alkar Society and I am proud of that knight's tradition. But the fact is here and the President of the Parliament didn't remember that we have a representative from Sinj, and even in a link in Sinj only the parliamentary representatives are welcomed which party has a membership and that's not good. So, even an alka that must be common to all of us, a symbol of an institution that symbolizes the survival of a Croatian man in this area, which symbolizes all segments of society they manipulate and use in their own things. But the fact is that I also hope that the alka will rise beyond that and that he will come to Sinj all, not only to eat and drink, but also to leave something behind on behalf of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45088	So, yes, it's true, I received the Alkaric Knightship but I didn't invite anyone. They invited people with whom they wanted to come to the President of the Parliament. So, I'm sorry they didn't call you. It has nothing to do with the Parliament. Don't be mad, but it's not me. Comrade Panenić, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45089	Comrade Bull, you have rightly noticed this is no time for us to be here at this time. At this time, an honest people living in a fair country would be at home with their families, we wouldn't certainly be sitting here stretching this debate. But it's not like that. So we live in a country where now my Slavons have all gone to sea, where their husbands or wives to visit them for a little while longer, so she'll really read for 24 hours, because by the time the railroad gets to the destination, it'll take a little while. We laughed at the development of a railway in Serbia, but it seems that it's going slowly with us, so we'll be able to spend our time quality a day a year while you go to the sea, so one day you'll come back, and you'll spend less time traveling. But it's just saying what the situation is. I say, those of us from Slavonia, now we see maybe even then we were hypocrites when others came to work, when Vukovar was a developed industrial city, when there was work, when agriculture was something that attracted people no more. There's nothing, there's not even those people who came, and there's also those who were domicile, and they're going to go, and then we're going to talk about the project, but here's what I'm afraid is that this project won't be so fast, and it's not going to be something that's going to be of any use to you that you can have the opportunity to see how the project works with us so that you're looking for your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45090	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45091	Thank you very much. I would agree with my colleague Panenic, Slavonia is confused, people go worse than during all the occupations. Unfortunately, and the fact that from my end a large number of people are... his family, who went long ago to Slavonia from our low places down from Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's really sad that this story about Slavonia, that in the Republic of Croatia it's an independent state, we have to talk this way instead of being the other way around, that our products from Slavonia are now on the market, i.e. in restaurants in Dalmatia. And here, you see the relationship when the president of the youth of the Knights-Alkar society comes to visit, and the Knights' Alkar Society invites the president of the youth of the former HDZ who doesn't, I don't know if he's been on the stick twice. He was a colleague of Šipic's. I as a longtime member of the Knights' Alkar society just because I wasn't...... Just a minute. [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] We'll take care of this in Sinjo. It's just that... What are you so upset about? [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]] Can you warn him? It's just that [[I'm warning you!]] And right now I'm saying that one institution of the Knight-Alkar society has been manipulated so much, they've cheated so hard that the Sinjans are bitter. [[Bouting Grmoya: Shame on you!]] [["Peace, don't fight."]] The entire Croatian people are bitter. Even in the campaign, the president of the Knights' Alkar Society is signed and supported by the HDZ candidate, the Knights' Alkarian Society. You know what the Signans tell you? Watch out for Sinjska alka the triba live, the triba is living by tradition, by its beliefs, by faith, by the triba to live. And what you're doing to my colleague Šipic, colleague Bacho, you must know that Sinj has a representative, you did the same thing to me when Ivo Sanader, when you banned me from participating in Alca, because you closed down, hid the tablet while Gotovina was in the HAG to get to Sanader. Well, you won't anymore, and thank you very much, pretty President, for the information you've said that the chivalrous Albanian society has invited whoever it wants. Yeah, you know why we do that? That's why you're sitting right where you're sitting. I'm leaving, too, but we'll talk about this. Because using the Knight's Alkarian Society, politicizing it, must be a shame on you, you must be ashamed of the gentlemen of the Knight's Alkar society you run. That's what I'm saying as a member and that's what I'm saying as a Parliament representative from Sinj and Cetina. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45092	Comrade Bulj, I have one for you very unpleasant information. It's just finished open. And you didn't look at him, and you don't know what kind of bathing suit tourists wear. I'm wearing you uniforms, and the kind of color you wear we'll talk about when the time comes. [[Intruding Bull: Surely you on flowers.]] Thank you very much... I ask you, colleagues Bulj, you use really ugly words, but you must not speak in the Croatian Assembly. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] You said a lot of things, but you can't say what you said... So I'm not going to politicize it, but you're saying things that are not said in the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please calm down and get... I'm asking you to calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The situation is under control, the point is over. We're moving on to the next point, and everything's fine. Well, we'll come... Here's a fellow Boris replica one, if he dares, I don't know, you're not going to attack him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How about a colleague, Boric, more replica... Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Is there no need on behalf of the promoter, dear Minister Žalac, thank you very much for your participation. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period until the end of 2020. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for a regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period until the end of 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes 77 for, 21 abstentions, 37 against the adopted Strategy for the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia for the period until the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam and gentlemen, the current Witness Protection Act, regulates the conditions and procedures for providing assistance to persons whose safety, life, health, physical integrity or freedom is threatened by the testimony in criminal proceedings against the Republic of Croatia, against the values of protected international law, against organised crime and criminal offences for which a sentence of 5 or more years of imprisonment may be imposed under the law. So far, the 13-year application of the Witness Protection Act has shown that in some cases, where a cover-up measure has been set as one of the four measures that can be imposed under this law is not sufficient, i.e. that there is a need for permanent retention of a hidden identity, a protected person and after the protection programme is completed. Namely, taking away documents, to persons with a covert identity, who, for example, has lived in a country for a long time in which a regulated stay, health insurance, schooling, where her children go to school, where she has legal jobs or properties, constitutes a significant violation of her human rights. In order to enable the protected person to retain a covert identity and after the end of the protection programme that is normally carried out for a certain period of time according to the assessment, it is proposed to supplement the Witness Protection Act by adding a new Article 40a, introducing a permanent change of identity as a necessary means of protecting the human rights of a person who has been living under a covert identity for a long time. The addition of the law provides that the justification of the requirement for permanent retention of the prior use of a covert identity is to be assessed by the commission referred to in Article 4 of the Law which decides on these measures. Here in this sense, since there are people whose protection programme has expired and would seek this measure, the addition of this article is proposed that these people who, by their testimony, have been helped to condemn some persons for particularly serious crimes, that they can continue to live without danger for him and for him by means of a close person. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45096	Reporters of the board take your word? If not, I'm opening a debate. Since no one has checked in, I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Witness Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 69. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a law supplementing the witness protection law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 134 votes to pass the Act supplementing the Witness Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45099	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you. I'm going to give a few preliminary statements on the draft draft law on the Ombudsman for children with the Final Bill of Law. As the President pointed out in the opening interpretation of the agenda item, it was an emergency procedure because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, by decision of 7 March 2017, abolished the Law on the Ombudsman for children by formally estimating him as incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because he was adopted by the ordinary majority of the present representatives instead of asking for a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and within the meaning of the provision of Article 83(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with points 2 of the draft decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the abolishing of the Law on the Ombudsman for children ceases on 1 August 2017. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has, in its opening decision of 7 March, assessed the unconstitutional nature of the Law on the Ombudsman for children in a formal sense and did not question the independence and independence of the institution of this draft law, in a reserved sense, by the institution of the Ombudsman for children in a very similar way, as was prescribed by the repealed Law on the Ombudsman for children. The draft law lays down the basic principles of the activities of the Ombudsman for children's independence, independence, non-partisan membership, part-irregular and mode of work, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of lawyers for children and their deputies, the participation of lawyers for children in the process of adopting rules relating to children's rights or governing matters relevant to children, the co-operation with the authorities of the state administration of the unit of local and regional self-government in institutions, associations and other legal and physical persons dealing with issues of importance for children, the obligation to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on their work, the provision of funds to the Ombudsman for children as well as other important issues for the work of the Ombudsman for children. The adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children will allow for the continuation of the activities and the achievement of the tasks of the Ombudsman institutions and after the expiry of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children on 1 August 2017. Therefore, we ask the Croatian Parliament to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45100	Thank you. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague named Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45101	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Minister. It is true when you said that the Constitutional Court had put out of force the applicable law of 2003 on the Ombudsman for children, he did it for a reason because the law in the Croatian Parliament was not passed by absolute but relative majority, and it was intended to be passed by most of all because of the organic law. However, the Constitutional Court has not given any indication that you are tampering with the content and that, through a transitional and final provision, you define that the term of office of the current Ombudsman will cease, or that reasons and legal requirements for its replacement will be provided. I will remind myself that in 2008 the Constitutional Court also suspended the Law on the Ombudsman for gender equality for the same reason because it was not adopted in the Croatian Parliament by an absolute but relative majority, but then it did not occur to HDZ that through the transitional and final provisions it would allow, or define, the replacement of an existing lawyer, rather than that the Ombudsman would act on her duties until the end of the term of office. We'll talk about it more through the debate, but just so the public knows what it is. This is not the first such practice, and it has given you the opportunity to comply with constitutional provisions in the manner in which it will be adopted, but not to mess with the content and to be served by the Constitutional Court as a fig leaf for the replacement of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45102	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45103	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. Your choice of words is certainly your choice of words and I have no objection to it, but I would like to say that we did not interfere with the law but we gave the draft bill the way the Proposer felt necessary, and in accordance with the Constitution as well as with all other regulations. You know very well that this urgency came from the Constitutional Court decision, and as the legislator can also edit the law as it deems necessary, taking care of the Ombudsman's institute as a very important institute for the Republic of Croatia. So much for tampering.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45104	Thank you. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first came to the floor on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45105	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At this late hour we're discussing, I'd like to talk about an important law. Every organic law is an important law, and in this sense it is not appropriate to discuss it at this late hour when the concentration falls and there are no large numbers of MPs. And you will see in my and other debates that it is an extremely important law. This is an organic law because it regulates the structure, the detour and the way the state body works and, in that sense, such a law is adopted by qualified majority of all MPs. But for a wonderful miracle, it should be clear that the establishment of the Ombudsmans of the Croatian Parliament's authority and the Ombudsman's staff is a matter regulated by organic law because it is a state body. And now we are faced with the situation that the Constitutional Court recently in March this year abolished the Law on the Ombudsman for children for formal reasons, as it was said, because it was not passed by qualified majority. And allow me just one small remark with that Constitutional Court decision. If you have not noticed a proposal for the constitutionality of the law was submitted in 2005, 12 years ago. So I could joke a little bit and say, how did the Constitutional Court take 12 years, from 2005 to 2017 to answer the question whether the Law on the Ombudsman for children is an organic law, or whether he regulates the establishment, in part, of the state body? And another interesting thing, namely, it is not the first law to refer to a lawyer as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, which has been abolished for formal legal reasons. Therefore, the Law on the Ombudsman, which was adopted in 2011, also abolished the Constitutional Court, somewhat later in 2012, for the same reason that the 2011 Law on the Ombudsman was not passed by qualified majority of all MPs. At that time, 76 MPs voted in favour of him, and 77 were required. And then, within a very short period of several months, the Constitutional Court decided on the issue, the proposal, so formal unconstitutional. The question now arises if, at that moment, the Constitutional Court decided that the Law on the Ombudsman was an organic law which must be passed by qualified majority and decided in early 2012, the logical question is why they did not then decide on this second law, the Law on the Ombudsman for children they had for 7 years as a proposal submitted in 2005. They could have handled it the same way then, so it's organic law and we wouldn't have this situation today. But the question the students of the second year of constitutional law college would answer without a problem was that our Constitutional Court has been working out for 12 years. And right now, we have a situation where the law has been abolished and has given a delay until August 1st when it ceases to apply. We voted in a vote on the justification of an emergency procedure against, so we have the view that this law should go through a regular procedure. In this regard, we point out that the President of the Constitutional Court himself has indicated that the institution of the Ombudsman for children is not questionable and that, if a constitutional court is necessary, it may also extend the period of validity of the law by further decision if the Croatian Parliament would not reach the end of this session by 1 August, or by the end of this session, a new law. So the institution, according to the President of the Constitutional Court, is not questionable and we could go into regular procedure. I am the head of the position and the position is the Club of Representatives of the Most that no organic law should be adopted by emergency procedure. But now we have a situation that we must discuss in this way and probably during which day we decide. The second thing I'd like to say is, it refers to the status of the regiment and the specialised attorneys. I point to Article 93. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which, for the first time since the change of the Constitution in 2010, speaks not only of the Ombudsman but also of the other authorities of the Croatian Parliament for the Protection of Human Rights, which is listed in the constitutional provision, has immunity as well as representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In this way, these specialised lawyers also received constitutional ground. So this is a fundamental fact that I am leaving, so the constitutional creator who, above the legislator, not only of the attorney general but also of these specialised special defenders included in the constitutional provision and gave them special status, stating that they enjoy immunity as well as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We know that we have a few special defenders, today we're talking about the children's thing. What's the problem, yes, it seems to me that this House has never reached a consensus on whether or not there should be special, specialised defenders, or would be a better variant if there were a single vacancy attorney with a number of deputies specialising in certain areas. And that is why I point to that 2011 law in which the Croatian Assembly's intensities at the time were that there was one lawyer with a certain number of deputies, but the law was abolished by the Constitutional Court for formal and legal reasons. Today's concept to me personally seems to be more consistent with a constitutional provision that actually speaks about other authorityal officers, so the Constitution indicates that they exist in some way, although they do not define them by name, which they are lawyers, leaves free will and discretion to the legislator to design which areas such special defenders are needed for. What is relevant for today's debate of the Law on Advocates for Children adopted in 2003, and which is now abolished because of formal unconstitutionalness, with the suspension of validity, is problematic in that the Government of the Republic of Croatia now decides that in the transitional provision in Article 28, the provision that the Government will propose to the Assembly of Advocates for Children, thus suspending the term of office of the current Ombudsman and is actually talking about it in the media debates, in fact, and is focusing on the point that the term of office is actually interrupted. What we would like, in principle, is for the debate on this law to be held on several essential points that I have explained through the amendments that have been submitted to this law. The first thing that is relevant to us as the Most Representatives' Club is that in the process of selecting all specialised lawyers, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not play any role. Therefore, it should not be the government who will propose to the Croatian Assembly of Advocates regardless of the matter of the Ombudsman for children, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities or gender equality. In the current laws that regulate these special defenders, it is the Government that proposes to the Croatian Assembly the person for the post. However, if all these defenders are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as is the Croatian Ombudsman, elected by the Croatian Assembly in the procedure that takes place exclusively within the Croatian Parliament, as prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman, and where the procedure goes through the public publication of the Croatian Parliament, where the procedure goes through the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, with the previous opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the National Minority, and where the Government has no role, the logical question arises why should the Government submit a proposal to other members of the Croatian Parliament? In our opinion, in the opinion of the Most Representatives' Club, the Government should have no role to play there, and in this sense we would advocate the amendment of all the laws of the special defence attorneys that are now so regulated that the government is proposing a lawyer. Secondly, the selection procedure for each of these lawyers must be within the Croatian Parliament and, in this sense, we have made an amendment to the existing proposal requesting that a public call be made from the Croatian Parliament, therefore, to all persons who are eligible for this duty, that the choice, the proposal, be made within the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, with a preliminary opinion in this particular case, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which is the parent committee for the Ombudsman for the children and that the Croatian Assembly determines the qualified majority, the majority of all MPs. We are normally the principled position at the Most Representatives' Club that all defenders should be chosen by qualified majority of all MPs. Like some other officials in the Croatian Parliament, let us begin with the President of the Croatian Parliament, which is not prescribed. Furthermore, we believe that the public defender and other representatives of the Croatian Parliament must, in real terms, be independent in the conduct of their duties. It is understood that in its work it will often criticise individual state bodies and point to the failures of state bodies to protect human rights. In order to be independent and independent, it is illogical that they can be replaced every year, based on not accepting the annual work report. That's not supposed to be with the attorney general. In our opinion, it is equally unacceptable for other defenders who are representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Let us be objective, which means a provision on the election to 8 years, which should mean that each Ombudsman is beyond the reach of some current political majority and that eight-year term is exactly what he is saying. He is like that for the attorney general and he really behaves in that term, so it is logical that the other representatives of the Croatian Parliament have the same eight-year mandate that cannot be interrupted by not accepting the annual work report. Unfortunately, I must say that all the laws I have seen, so the laws that apply to other special defenders also contain that provision. That they can be resolved if an annual work report is not accepted. Therefore, any of these special defenders were passed at different times, the political majority in this Croatian Parliament changed, but it is obvious that none of the political majority, regardless of whose government had not changed those provisions. The principle of our position is that they do not have a place if we want the real independence of these representatives of the Croatian Parliament who will objectively criticise the many bodies of the state administration, perhaps the government, as well. Surely the ones that are most often in executive bodies. In that sense, we have also given amendments to the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45106	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Babic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45107	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Podolnjak. I'll at least try to say some things quickly, actually some inaccuracies. Perhaps it was a lapus from your presentation, so I'll say that the motionor, or the motion of the Constitutional Court, did not go in 2005 but went in 2003. That's one thing. The second thing, the attorney general is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, but so on. The special defenders are not. The truth is also what you said they were officials of the Republic of Croatia, that's true. I agree with you, too, and I am pleased that you have pointed out that, in fact, as an attorney general of the Croatian Parliament, it can, and that is the case with the Law on the Ombudsman, Article 12, may have at least 3 and more deputy civil defenders. So it could also have been through the occupier's staff that we are talking about today with special defenders about persons with disabilities, about gender equality and children. However, there are other vulnerable groups. That's how we brought it out in 2012. Therefore, it could also have been the attorney general, i.e. the special civil defender, both for the defenders and for the blocked public officials and for the seamen, if necessary of our country. What you were talking about was done by France for rationalization they rationalized so-called. Special defenders to the occupier's office and that's right, that's exactly what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45108	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45109	Thank you, dear colleague. Unfortunately, today is not a debate about what you said about whether we need a strong vehicular lawyer with his deputies specialized or this existing situation. I remember in 2011 I was then an external member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and there was a very broad debate at the time, which was precisely what many entities and many civil society associations and defence attorneys were doing. There was a very sharp debate. The majority of the public were somehow at the point of view that it is better to keep these special authorities of the Croatian Parliament who are specialized and that this may strengthen their institutional role. But allow me, we're being shown the practices of different states for and against one or another solution and rationalization and this. At that time, the view prevailed to retain an existing solution in the public even though the legislator had resolved otherwise. I agree that this can be discussed in a peaceful debate that will not now be related to the current law concerning only one specialised Ombudsman. And I suggest, of course, that one serious debate is being held on this and other defenders who could be specialized in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45110	The second replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45111	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Podolnjak, with much to say in your discussion on behalf of the club, agrees with the part where you have, in some way, apostrophe that the debate on transitional and final provisions goes into some political sphere and alluded to the fact that we may be more concerned about the potential shift of an existing lawyer than about the measure of the law. However, the transitional and final provision if we exclude this now is that we can call lex Milas Klaric, or we will be able to see it when we see the outcome of this law in a few months. In fact, this transitional and final provision is quite painful when we see that she's trying to terminate the attorney general's mandate in one way, no matter what she called herself at this point, and she actually has five years on the basis of the law to act in that capacity. And we know that if we want the attorneys as the most independent national institutions to have independence, that the prerequisite for this independence is stability and that says both the Paris rules and the Venice Commission and the Commission's ruling against Hungary says it is actually necessary to provide guarantees, I quote: "A stable mandate without which there is no real independence and precise determination of its duration as we have arranged for 8 years." Even the Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Commission today is very serious, if this is true in the media that has come out of the information warning Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to seriously consider amendments by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for children who point to this fact that this is not about Mrs Milos Klaric, but rather about the violation of the institute of the national independent institution of any lawyer, where independence is being broken right through the interruption, through the violation of stability, through a clear removal of the mandate that should be maintained in this case for another five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45112	And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45113	I thank you for your debate, but now is the time to point out in fact some paradoxical arrangement precisely to the question of whether the attorney's term of office is interrupted possibly by the adoption of a new law. I have carefully passed all the laws relating to the defenders who have been brought into this Croatian Assembly. You have one interesting thing. In 2012, when the current Law on the Ombudsman was passed, and at that moment you had a parliamentary majority, so on the proposal of your government and your parliamentary majority adopted it, you then provided for the transitional provisions on the date of entry into force of this law, the Croatian Parliament, in Article 34(1), for the election of the Ombudsman. So, you then installed into the law a provision, which was now installed by the current government, against which you are now, and in fact, that is when you first mentioned it as a precedent. And you were right to say that in 2008, in the Law on Gender Equality, a different decision was found. At that time, Article 42 of this Act shall remain in force for the appointment of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. So, if we look back, this Croatian Parliament has had a twofold approach to approach the prosecutor's question, following the abolition of the law under which he was elected. So, at one point, the Parliament said it would call a new 2012 competition for the Ombudsman, when you were in fact the parliamentary majority, and in 2008, when HDZ was, they decided that the mandate would remain in force. Now you actually have the opposite situation, what you did in 2012 is now against it, what the HDZ did in 2008 now has actually turned the situation around. Here it is, actually, a taste of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45114	Thank you. We're moving on to another debate. It is a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac and SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45115	Thank you, Mr. President. At the very beginning, since I do not have the opportunity to respond to the replica, Mr. Podolnjak you are quite right, that there was this item in the amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman, in 2012, to sign for the new one, but I will only warn of one thing. Mr Malcic had completed his mandate until the end, no one had consummated the provision of the law in 2008 when the Law on the Advocate General for Gender Equality was amended and in 2012 when the Law on the Ombudsman was amended, in both cases, by persons who were at those times, regardless of how the transitional and final decision was defined, and you were right to have been defined in 2 different ways. In both cases, these persons have consumed the law provided for the right to carry out their mandate by the end of the 8-year term. The whole truth is, there was an invitation to tender, but Mr. Malicic acted on his duty until November, it seems to me, ended on 30 November 2012 after the end of the 8-year term. It's true. The SDP advocates' club will not support the draft law on the Ombudsman for children. And he handed over the parliamentary procedure of two amendments. With these 2 amendments, we want to ensure independence in the work of the Ombudsman for children, which must not be limited by the fact that the current ruling option is satisfied with what the lawyers point to in their report. On the other hand, we do not believe that the adoption of the report in the Croatian Parliament should not be a reason for the shift, i.e. the cancellation of the trust of any Ombudsman. Not even a lawyer for the kids. Similarly, we are opposed to the new proposal introduced in this bill, which so far did not exist in the current law, which is that the Croatian Parliament can also request extraordinary reports from the Ombudsman for children, which would mean that de facto if we are now leading things to absurdity, except that the Ombudsman is obliged to submit once a year a report to the Croatian Parliament, in which he reports on the state of the children's rights, protection, their rights, improvement, some errors that should be corrected, which the institutions should do to improve the protection and respect of children's rights. In fact, there is an attempt to open the space here, that, in addition to this one-year report, the Parliament de facto may once a week ask the Ombudsman to submit a report here, if he is not satisfied with this report in accordance with this provision to vote his mistrust, i.e., it can reduce it and that is something that actually violates precisely stability, I will dare say the independence of this Ombudsman institution, which we have already spoken of in replications. Through the second amendment, we want to prevent political shifts, i.e. by adopting this law, we want to stop the Advocate and her deputies from ending their mandate before it expires, and for this it does not become an objectively quantifiable reason. We have already had the opportunity to hear and this is true and, as Ms. Minister said on behalf of the motion, the Constitutional Court has asked the Croatian Parliament, in fact, to in some ways comply with constitutional provisions, i.e., that the Croatian Parliament, since it is an organic law, is made by, by an absolute majority, i.e., most of all MPs, and not by a relative majority. And that's totally fine. And this isn't the first law, we had the opportunity to hear and the first decision of the Constitutional Court, which the Constitutional Court actually asked the Parliament to do in this way. But what does that really mean? The organic law itself, they are passed meanings in those cases where the constitution establishes human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as when the constitution and the workings of state bodies are developed by law. And it's actually this law. As such, the Ombudsman is one of the institutes, i.e. an institution, which protects the fundamental rights and interests of children as one of the most socially vulnerable groups. Now, through this law, the Constitutional Court has said that we need to make sure that organic law, or organic law, ensures a solid majority in the Croatian Parliament, because the power of what defines organic law actually comes from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, the Constitutional Court has not said anywhere that we should in some way enter the content of the law, and at least that we should take things back and take steps back. What is our duty through the law is to provide in some way jurisdiction, resources, but also functional institutional independence in this case as a guardian for children. This independence is independent or necessary for effective protection by the Constitution of human rights and fundamental freedom of children. Now, in order for the Ombudsman to be independent and in order for us to provide the content of this law to her, her team independence in the work we must ensure that she is not related to any instructions, any government, any Croatian Parliament. We must ensure that she is not exposed to any interesting, ideological or secular or political pressures because of the way she uses her powers given by law through the Constitution. And thirdly, we must ensure that no one asks her to be obedient to any government or politics. Now, are we going to leave the provision that it can be amended if its report is not adopted in the Assembly, and we know how the laws in the Assembly are adopted and the reports in the Assembly are rejected, whether we will provide it with political independence if the policy decides whether it will continue to be a lawyer or not. After all, if we go a little deeper into the core, what do we in some way vote for mistrust in that report? We are counting on a tool in some way to deal with the Ombudsman to replace it, and in fact the only thing we are discussing in the report is not to say that it is not the work of the Ombudsman, but the report is a real picture of the situation, a relevant source of information on the rights and protection of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia and a level of success in respecting the commitments made by some international contracts in this particular case of the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. And now this report sets out some objective facts, that the level of children's rights is in accordance with some of the provisions of the Convention, that in some parts of the Convention it is not an office and that if we are not satisfied with what is written in the report with the truth that we should face some proposals that institutions and Croatian Parliament need to improve legal provisions to further protect children's rights, what we will do if our institutions do not work in a good way, and in fact the report is pictures of institutions and government and other institutions in the protection of children's rights. And we will be dissatisfied with the report and the way our institutions work we will deal with who, with the messenger of bad news. Even though this item exists in the law on lawyers, it is not good, even though in 2003 our government proposed such a legal solution because these were the first laws to be formed by the institutions of the defense attorneys, we were small in the whole story, we were wrong, it is not a good solution. We may have made a mistake not to take advantage of these four years when we were able to change the legal solutions and remove them, and we were warned by the attorneys and some international institutions that we should strengthen the independence of these institutions we did not do so. Here I publicly admit on behalf of the club that we may have made a mistake. But now that we're already in a position that you, we didn't even propose these changes here, but when you're in a position to change this law because of the Constitutional Court's decision let's make that step. Let's release all the defenders of political pressure and some political hands with most of the foundation, I will not tell their reports of work but of the contents of the human rights picture, regardless of whether they are persons with disabilities, gender equality, the rights spoken of by a public defender as someone on the roof call it such a body or this defender. That's the first thing. Secondly, we will not ensure independence, I have already said that in the replica, if we do not ensure stability, and stability is guaranteed in a way that the mandate must be a fixed duration. And it's no newspaper, it's something other European countries know. The suspension of the term of office or early resolution of the Ombudsman may take place, but only in cases where reasons are of a serious nature or where they are objectively verifiable. In the event of death, don't give God a serious illness, violation of some criminal laws, etc., etc. This assessment, like the report, is good or not, but I don't think it's an objective, relevant argument based on which we can conclude anything about the attorney's work. We can discuss the state of certain segments of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, but not the work of the attorney general. I mean, and I can't get rid of that impression that I also said on the parent board this morning, so charge me with politicizing, but I have to say it. Why would I say that? Because here a year ago, a report was rejected not only by the children's attorneys in this House but a year ago, a report by the attorney general was rejected. The lawyer's gender equality report barely passed. Is it possible, at the same time, that all three institutions are not doing their job well? Come on, come on. It was an introduction to cleaning shifts to solve inadequate or politically inappropriate, for some reason unknowns can only guess at me. I don't know what Mrs. Ivana Milas Klaric's sin is. Here in the debate when discussing her report we had the opportunity to hear from this side of the assembly that her greatest sin was in the making of the Family Law. Is that a reason? I don't know him. Perhaps what she was saying, condemning child abuse at political gatherings, for example in the Serbs, is that a problem? I don't know that. Because she warned that children who do not attend schools are not good enough to actually be cut off because they have some kind of free space in schools, because it has somehow protected children’s rights. Is that a problem? I don't know that. But the fact is that through this transitional and final provision, in a very elegant way, the system of court and the Constitutional Court's decision as a fig leaf opens up a very elegant legal space for this Ombudsman to be replaced by someone else. Now that's something that's not good at all, that's something that's going to have long-term consequences. This is what Europe sees because today the Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Commission reacted. This has been tried in another electronic media council institution, remember, Mrs Mirjana Rakic and the team, we also reject the report, etc., that the European Commission has not responded in the same way and said no, the mandate of stability, if it is written that it takes so long, you cannot, if you have come to power to cut it with a knife. So don't do it. We cannot support such an approach, we want to defend the independence of independent national institutions and that is, the Ombudsman for children regardless of what she was called. Your reasons are unknown to us. But given the fact that a minister, and I've read it to myself in the media, correct me if I'm wrong, at a meeting with the attorney and with the prime minister, says as an explanation of some of these solutions in the law when me and HDZ say you're SDP, then I think it's quite clear, and then the prime minister doesn't fence himself from that sentence at all, then my people are quite clear, if that information is correct, what is this really about. And don't get away with the Constitutional Court decisions, that we have to pass this law, but this is going to be an ugly, ugly precedent that will probably be welcomed after this and some other attorneys, which is something that isn't good and which shows that unfortunately, the legislator of this law, and the whole government didn't understand what it means to be independent of national institutions like the attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45116	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague of the Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45117	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly on that first line, I know that you, the occupier of the occupier of the time, have left him in office and he, in fact, has expired his mandate, but that the provision was not found in the law to interrupt the mandate and that there would be no such precedent that we are talking about today. And I'd like to ask you a question because the most you've talked about is exactly the annual lawyer's report that shouldn't be a reason, so the non-acceptation of the report must not be the reason for its resolution. But I have watched your amendments, the SDP club proposes what I have suggested in the amendment not to accept the annual work report is deleted as a reason for the resolution. But at the same time your colleague Bauk, he is the president of the club giving an amendment which actually regulates the subject where he states if the Croatian Parliament twice in favour of the overhalf majority of the votes of all MPs draws a conclusion on the non-acceptation of the annual report that this is also the reason for the resolution. It would result that if the Assembly reached such a conclusion for two years in a row, the mandate would be suspended after 2 years, it is a contradictory amendment of the SDP Club which considers this to be no reason for the defence attorney's resolution. So what's your point of view, really, is when you have two diametrically opposite amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45118	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45119	The position of the SDP club is that the lawyer should not be torn down by a political majority in parliament because this would mean that she is not independent but that she becomes addicted, her work becomes dependent on the will, the favor of the political majority. It's the SDP's position and you have it here as an amendment. And that it would, in fact, be in collegiate with that article that says that her term is eight years. Because if you do, you have the opportunity to vote non-trust every year, then actually delete that article where it says that it is appointed, i.e. to be named for 8 years. And what my colleague, Bauk, has proposed the 2nd amendment, he knows very well most of this Parliament, knows how it reacts, knows that he has the coordinates set, that he will not accept any of the other amendments, so in some way, I won't tell you, but he will explain to you what his amendment meant in his individual debate. But he actually wanted to show what this theater of absurdity is, which, unfortunately, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45120	Another replica, dear colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45121	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, fellow voters you know Abraham Lincon says you can cheat on people for a while, some people you can cheat on all the time, but you can't cheat on people all the time. No collective amnesia. We remember that this law was passed in 2003, so I know that you were not in the Croatian Parliament at the time, but your colleagues did. If you're a legalist, if you're following the laws, and we're talking about the law here, we're not talking about the attorney general here, in this case the attorney's office or her report, so we're not talking about cleaning up what you're talking about tonight. If someone made a cleanup and didn't think about it then you didn't think about it. Therefore, it is clear from that law that Article 26(5) does not allow for the adoption of the report to be authorised by the Advocate General, or, in this case, by the Advocate General for Children. So, by not accepting the 2003 report, and that was the reason, it was the Constitutional Court's decision, by proposing that 2003 law that it should then have been stated that it was an organic law and that it was made by a qualified majority. And that didn't happen. And that's why. Here we are not talking about the occupier, nor about her report, I remember that at the 6th month you participated in this debate and you talked more about the Family Law, something about that report, but the fact is that we here are talking about the 2003 law and that law, and let Mr. Bauk tell you, is elected, the appointed attorney general, she was elected by that law. Well, legitimate artis, according to that law, she's getting rid of the report, and you've cleared her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45122	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45123	The vacancy, i.e. the Ombudsman, is the only one who is not resolved by not accepting the report. And she's a special category. And here Mrs. Lori Vidovic did not pass the report and she could not actually be resolved, unlike the other lawyer who could have been resolved, that's the first. Secondly, I said here at the pay phone, in 2003 we bring three institutes, or we build three institutes, counselor for people with disabilities, children and gender equality. It was the new institutes. We're a young country, we've already been some kind of a country, we've entered the story of joining the EU, we're improving our democratic processes, we're establishing human rights issues, we're establishing law-makers' institutes, we're passing laws. I confessed here, we made a mistake. Fortunately, no one has ever fallen in 2003 until last year, reach for this institute to tear down the report in this Croatian Parliament. No SDP, no HDZ government until this last one of yours, who realized that this was one very elegant way to get rid of an existing defender and bring some others. I mean, it's no fact, but if we've made a mistake, and if we now see that this institution is finally starting to use the possibilities through the rejection of the shift reports, and we see that it may not be the best way to strengthen independence and stability of the institution of the Ombudsman, so let's let's give it sovereignty, let's give it immunity in this Croatian Assembly, immunity in the sense that it is not responsible for what it says that policy punishes her, and let's not let my mother, break her integrity to that institution itself and use it for political staffing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45124	Thank you. And the third replica, more mentioned, dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45125	Thank you. So, fellow Voter, crucial to this law, which you didn't mention is I mean next. Therefore, it is an incorrect claim that the Croatian Parliament rejected a report on the Ombudsman for children. A strictly business interpretation, the Croatian Parliament has not reached any conclusion about this because the only conclusion that has been proposed has not been given a sufficient number of votes, and no other has been proposed. Why? Because no one had dared to suggest such a conclusion that a report was not accepted to take responsibility for the replacement of the Ombudsman for the children, so she received a yellow card and would not get enough votes because they were abstentioned to vote on the adoption of the report, so they would probably be abstentioned to vote on not accepting the report and neither would that conclusion get a sufficient number of votes. But these are business procedures and dribbles that are less important. What's crucial here is what the child's attorney, Mrs. Milas-Klaric, said publicly. And by that it's de facto, she deserves a shift if what she said isn't true. And that's what the family minister said, and I quote, "For us from HDZ, you're SDP." If she said it, and that's not true, she deserved a shift immediately. And if that's true, then it's all we're talking about today and you can bring in the lawyers for the kids, the story for the little kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45126	Replication response, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45127	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk, you are right, this conclusion actually would have provided a basis for a shift in view of the non-voting report, has not actually passed, is not the conclusion in that form that it is not accepted, and that is probably the reason why she is still an attorney even though the Association In the name of the family and in this debate, in two, three places warns what she is still doing at the children's post when she was given a year ago, more precisely in June 2016 here so-called. I don't trust you. But there are smart people in HDZ who realized that actually through the formal process, there are a lot of people who understand it, through that formal inability, or that it was not actually rejected by the report and that its shift would result in some other legal consequences. As far as this second part of your comment is concerned, that's probably why it's trying this way, because this is a more elegant space how it can be realized, part two, yes, and I'm wondering if it's possible that at that meeting where the Prime Minister himself was, there's a sentence that actually this whole law comes down to me, they're not ours, you've been chosen, and that year when there was another option in power, you can't be there anymore, you're a classic SDP for us. I hope that although Ms. Attorney General will, of course, not be a member of the party, any party, and I hope that we will hear here today what actually happened at that meeting and whether that statement that came out in the media is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45128	Thank you. Now, the minister will be given the opportunity in five minutes on behalf of the promoter, so we'll hear what's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45129	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of the bile and tone and the words that were in this debate before, and also in this of Mr. Podlonjak, his debate certainly wasn't like that. I do thank you, however, because there are also good thoughts that can be and the subject may even see that in the amendments that we have already received, we can certainly put some on the table and maybe here is God and all, so that we can all be very happy and happy. We also consider the opinions we already come from discussions that were in previous hours on committees, that there are really good reasons to make and change not only in this law, but also in other laws, other counselors with the aim of improving, with the aim of balancing, to be in an even position, and these are certainly some tasks for some of us who will have some obligations in the future. At first, I pointed out that there was no need for ideological debates regarding this law. It's not about Mrs. Milas Klaric's shift, it's simply about a law that I have to honestly say on my personal behalf, on behalf of the ministry we had to bring and certainly wasn't about to do this right now, and especially not with the attorney's shift. When we talk about whether or not we're valorizing and discussing the Attorney General's report, my position was and remains that through this report we are always discussing the work of the institute, institution or institution. And I don't see any reason why he's risen to such a level. The fact that if we discuss the report, we touch even in independence, or we debate or threaten human rights. What you pulled the parallel I mean for Mr. Malcic, so he could finish his term because he could, please? ... He finished it because he answered the contest. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Right? I think that no one has ever written or said that either Mrs. Milas Klaric or anyone else can answer any calls or public tenders or even related to this Article 28.2. And now what it really is I would ask you Mrs. Sabine to listen. So, of course I didn't say that. I would really doubt it, and obviously you all doubt some average intelligence to go and tell Mrs. Milos Klaric that I think you're the SDP that she's in the paper or the media have passed it on and that's why you should be replaced. At that meeting, and I think it was an act perhaps of the prime minister's goodwill to invite both me and Mrs. Milas Klaric to talk. And there was an advisor present to discuss the law. In the wheel we touched, it was about that. What is really being achieved all the time, and how dependent or independent the Ombudsman is, is the political will of whoever proposes it or anyone who discusses his report. And only in connotation, the context of it was mentioned by the parties, or then the ruling set. I certainly didn't say that. And I'd ask you now, that's what you knew, it's been pulling out of the media for eight days now, and I don't want to come down to the gossip she said. Why didn't you ask Mrs. Milas Klaric today at two-and-a-half hours of discussion on the board in front of me? Is that why she deserves a shift? I don't think that's why she didn't deserve a shift because it's her perception. Her perception is that this debate, this law, is all about her. I'm afraid I can't change that. But with her shift, with the desire for Mrs. Milas Klaric to be relieved and what she is from the SDP or what isn't from the SDP, and you know how we suggested our candidates who when I'm really not burdened with it. But she is, and unfortunately, you've been burdened needlessly by all of you here and you've brought this debate to a level that is inappropriate to one of the defense attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45130	I thank the minister. We have three replicas. First up, he's a respected colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45131	So, three controversial points in this law, one of which has been removed from the HDZ, HNS, National Minority Clubs and the SDSS Club. So, the choice of defenders is completely, so it takes place in the Croatian Parliament which is here, so leave two more. Yeah, yeah, left two more. So, one is the fact that by not accepting the report, the lawyer is being replaced, de facto. Now, on the consolidated agenda for the fourth session of the 110th Point Croatian Parliament, there are 60 reports. Some from 2014, some from 2016 are different institutions, but in very few cases the non-acceptance of the report pulls a shift. There may be several institutions, but generally not. The parliament doesn't accept the report, they come with another report, so the Parliament doesn't accept it again, etc. etc. Sometimes he takes notice of it. Therefore, it is doubtful whether it should be the defenders who are the ones who are not accepting the report that triggers the resolution. That's one question. And the second question, in the transitional and final provisions, is the adoption of a new law, very similar to the existing law, with the same or similar contents of the Ombudsman's powers, is that a reason to adopt, to initiate a de facto termination of the mandate of the person elected for 8 years? So these are two questions, whose test of proportionality this law of yours has not passed, and that's why we're skeptical of it. And that's why I think it's mostly about lex, that the current attorney is being replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45132	Thank you. Okay, second replica, esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45133	Minister Murganić, with my personal deep respect, would like to tell you not to be affected by these criticisms, because we consider the Living Wall, that the law is good, that it will fulfill its purpose and that those who falsely accuse you have a long history of false accusations. I must remind you, I don't know, did you know, that the same person who is now accusing you of conspiracy, so, Ivana Milas Klaric, has in her time accused her own colleagues at the Law Faculty of Conspiracy against her. That they're mobbing and suing not only her colleagues but also her college. And you know how that dispute ended? Her loss of lawsuit. She lost the court dispute and had to pay 78,000 kuna for her false accusations. You and such losers, who falsely accuse them, have no place for them, ma'am. And these provisions of the law, where the D.A. is actually moving out of function, we're going to be very supportive. You have our full support and just head upstairs, let's do it Friday. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45134	Thank you. Third replica, dear colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45135	Interestingly, these similar motives sometimes bind the diametrically opposite political options. It's like the enemy of my enemy, how... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Murganic, there is no bile, if we feel it is bad that one article of the law states that the term of office is 8 years, and then a few articles below are said to stop his mandate after his report has not been adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which is de facto adopted every year. Then write that either it takes eight years, or if we want to politically appoint a lawyer, let's write that it lasts four years. So let's make the Attorney General's office an extended arm of the government, we can do whatever we want through the bill. Now I'm really leading things to absurdity, but you can't have two different things in the same law. That the term of office takes 8 years and then you achieve space through the articles behind you to replace, you have the possibility of changing every year and not that. You are still in this bill so you can look for a practical half-yearly report, every month you can look for reports and every month this Croatian Parliament can actually vote non-confidential. It can because it says so in the bill. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but it can, and now I'm asking, where is the stability of the mandate and where is the independence of the institution when political parties are going to decide the remainder, regardless of whether it's HDZ with partners today or tomorrow it's SDP with partners. It's not good and it needs to be changed. Here, that's all I wanted to say and I'm glad if it's true that you didn't say this even though I think it's still an emergency for this law shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45136	After... After my colleague, Glasovac, here comes the Voice, future club GLAS. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Dear colleague Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45137	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers with a colleague, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is very difficult to speak only in principle about the proposal for this law. And you know when it's hard to speak only in principle, right? It's hard to speak in principle when it comes to names and last names. And that's unfortunately, in this law whether it turned out that way or just so it really is, that time will show, as my colleague Glasovac said, but already the fact that I have to protest, because now it's 23 hours and 40 minutes, and today was my birthday. And I've been sitting in this House all day and I'm here at 9:00 this morning because I'm also the chairman of the parent board. [[Happy birthday.]] And we had a committee related to this law and I've been here all day, expecting that this law, which seems to me to be extremely important, in general, not because it's about a colleague, a name and a last name, waiting for this law to be on the agenda for a while, and then eventually with its colleagues, it's going to be a little bit of a birthday party, but I didn't welcome it. And why am I saying this? I'm talking because, first of all, it wakes me up to anger, and second of all, there's doubt in me, and most of you probably here, who you've stayed and are waiting to say something on the subject of this law. Why is there something going on at 23.40 or 23 hours when we started? And why are some things done in 23 hours of this kind? As far as I remember, I've been in the Parliament for a long time, we've been here at this time discussing only the budget and maybe the government once in the past six years. Very rarely we were in the Parliament at 2300 hours, especially with laws like this. I respect our president's decision to speed up business and clear as many laws as possible, but here's a very strange law at 2300 hours. So why? Probably because in order to be a lot more attention and fellow MPs, and probably to the public who's been asking me around three hours here when this law will be on the agenda, I didn't know exactly, here he is now before midnight. So some things are done at midnight, we know what things are done at midnight and why they're done at midnight, and that tells me in the beginning that there's something wrong here. And what is the problem with us in this law? The problem of this law that the government and the competent ministry after they had actually received the opportunity, after the Constitutional Court, even though it was as some fig tree or so interpreted, after the Constitutional Court put out the law de facto only for technical reasons that it was not passed to an adequate majority in the Assembly because it was an organic law and not because of the content, so this same law could remain as it is not good. In this House, a report could be discussed to the Ombudsman for children, and according to that same report, if it is not accepted, it could be resolved. But you didn't have the courage to do that. You didn't have the courage, but you rewritten the law in a way that you changed the last article of this law and introduced the opportunity to resolve it by way of a new law. And that's for us at our club, thank you, Mr. President, because it's a matter of principle. This is a problem that we cannot ensure the independence of an institution that is extremely important. So all the institutions are important attorneys, somehow we're particularly sensitive, of course, when it comes to children. And we think in our club that a colleague or attorney named Miles has done her job very correctly in the past, and that her reports have been very exhaustive, comprehensive, and I suppose they're verifiable and true, and that we have no dispute here and that such reports are something that we as a Parliament should accept as certain information, not as a report we adopt or do not adopt. And it doesn't suck that the lawyer is elected for eight years and it doesn't suck to choose from a half-departmental majority of all MPs, but as a club, since we're going to be in these situations, I'm afraid by some other topics related to the defenders, we propose in one of the amendments that in the Croatian Parliament as well as some officials we choose, we choose a two-thirds majority. So let's people agree, we have to stand behind people like that, we can't wipe the floor with people like that at midnight, with such institutions, I'm not talking about the name and last name, and we're doing it and we're transferring responsibility. Not to mention the breaks from one side to the other, who he is when he chooses whom and why he will be replaced and replaced. So we expected the government, the ministry at this time, to improve this law, to drop the provision of the report and the replacement after an unadopted report, to give the Croatian Parliament more power in this law. Now here we see some amendments going in that direction, commending by the position. In our amendment, we have similarly proposed, but we have remained in the past means that it still goes through the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and that consent is given by the two working bodies of the assembly, the parent working bodies of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport and the Committee on Human Rights, and we think that would be the right thing to do, in order to make it a single step. But the government wouldn't do it. I'd like you to explain to me if you want to take a shift, say you don't want to, but if you wanted to relieve the current attorney, so I think you could quite correctly in this House do that job and say she doesn't know how to do her job let her go home. No, you've been hiding behind a provision that will resolve it as clear and only by the power of the law to come into force. I have already said that she has done the job quite correctly, and what my colleague Glasovac has already mentioned, I think the same should be pointed out, so over the past two, three years, how she has been acting as her attorney, it seems to me, or that she has raised the institutions herself, because the praises came from the international institutions that follow the work of these institutions in the Republic, and on several occasions have been praised with excellent work. I think there will be problems that these same institutions will now hand out to us pucks, since we have come to an entirely inadequate way of amending this law from which only what I have said can be read, and that is to go in the direction that it is not simply after the law is passed. Unfortunately, there are those who have a problem with the independence of the lawyer. We do not mind that, we believe it is extremely important to ensure full independence from both the executive and the legislative authorities in this sense that no pressure should be put on that institute. Thus, in order to avoid any future defenders, chosen to be dependent on anyone, or independent of all, should ensure such a situation. We are certainly against reporting in a way that gives rise to shifts. And the one who thinks it should be that way and that the Institute still needs to be introduced and that reports can be sought ad hoc, which means every month and probably in shorter spaces and on each of those reports, the Ombudsman may be removed. That means we're introducing an institute of what to do just in case we're wrong about the election of a new lawyer so we can do it on time, or we can replace him whenever we want. So it's for the Attorney General's office something that's a disaster. And let's not do that, because what the ordinary world says to us, the world will laugh at us, they will mock us. This, according to everything we could hear today, is almost not in any, not in a European country, but also in a wider region outside Europe, no country has such legislation as to the defence attorneys. Why don't we at least get in line with the Law of the General Prosecutor, which is significantly better than this law, both past and proposed? Why don't we head for the better? No, I don't. Let's go in a way to solve our problem now and the problem is obviously a name and a last name. So this bill would turn out to be actually that future lawyer we're going to choose so that he'll actually be some kind of pet of some ruling furniture that's in power at that point. And when the government tells him to sit down, he doesn't sit down but lay down, to make sure he doesn't accidentally ask him to write a report next month and, of course, replace him, because he's not responding or responding in certain attitudes or in certain data that the lawyer and the child counseling procedure are doing. So people think where we came from? In that sense, in order to prevent this from happening, we have sought to propose amendments that go in this direction to protect this institution, that everyone in the Croatian Parliament must reach a consensus, that committees in terms of running, means the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, with the support of two committees that are both parent and first interested committees, and that this last item, which says that in this law, that it will, in fact, be deleted and that we do not put it as such, as a transitional provision, that the current Director will be resolved by way of this law. These are some suggestions that would guarantee that we're going in a good direction. I would like it to be so, without any intention whatsoever to protect anyone, nor to protect anyone personally, but with any intention of establishing standards that will then be valid for some long time, and then this situation will not happen that from left to right we are accusing each other of who did what 6, 7, 8 years ago and what he was up to in the laws to get rid of a political opponent. I think it's absolutely wrong when we talk about the Attorney General's institution. Thank you very much. And of course we won't support the law in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45138	Nevertheless, I wish you a happy birthday on behalf of all MPs and MPs. Four are replicas, the first is a respected colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45139	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And I hope to succeed in these two minutes, three things are very important that you've been talking about but I wish you all the best for your birthday. But as far as I know the Croatian Parliament doesn't give that day off, I don't think there's any day off for your birthday. However, there is something I want to tell you because you said you came to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports as the chairman of that committee and then, during the day, we received a report from your board and something that got stuck in my eye and I don't think it's correct, so I'll read it to you. You said, among other things, that the debate expressed doubts that he was trying to replace the current Ombudsman for children under the cover of the obligation to pass this law. I don't think that's correct. And if you wanted to be correct, if you wanted to be correct on the board, you could then write that the lawyer herself actually called the Republic of Croatia for children very ugly attributes, very ugly attributes, it was not appropriate for a single female lawyer and called Croatian MPs without realizing that Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament had a mandate from the people, from the people and that the attorney general was appointed in that same Assembly and it was not correct. About what you know about volunteer volunteer script manent, what you wrote down remains. I'm saying, because of the correctness when you wrote it, you should have written what the D.A. was saying because I was on that same board even though I wasn't a member of it. I've got 30 seconds left, so I'm not gonna talk about this other thing. You said we hid behind this resolution provision. I'll tell you one more time, you are, the Kukurik coalition passed that law. ... They brought it in, but look out, look out, under that law, the attorney general for the children is elected and she knows herself that not accepting the report is a solution and it's clear as day. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The comparison of the Government of the Dog and the Ombudsman is not suitable for the level of the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45140	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45141	Look, you yourself know that after two-and-a-half hour discussion on the board, it's not quite easy to write a record where there were twenty, thirty replicas, a lot of debates, so it wasn't any intention to abuse the position of my secretaries or me, that in the record anything we faked, at the end of the day, you were also an agent who wasn't a member of the board and some other representatives and interested public and media, therefore nothing that was said there was secret and was not intended to be misused. But the fact is that some of the colleagues, so here's the present colleague, Glasovac, on several occasions on that board, repeated a similar discussion and we realized that it should be recorded in the record itself. I apologize if the failure is one you consider to be made on the other side and not recorded. And what you're saying is, I was just the one who warned in my discussion. So what are we going to do for another 20 or 30 or 50 years to move a ball every four or eight or 12 years, from one side to the other, and formulate and interpret laws and distort them in a way that we can retaliate? Or interpret it in a way that we can introduce a change that only suits us, which we are currently in power. So I think that with this practice you should break up in Croatia at last and if it's a mistake, we'll admit it, I've also supported it, I've been in the coalition, the Kukuriku Coalition, I admit if that mistake was Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45142	Comrade Bauk, replica number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45143	There's one good news, it's not your birthday, but if you're whining now, at midnight and one minute, you don't have to come by this new law in the morning, it's really not bad. So, for most of your debate, you've devoted the independence of the defendants in the crowd, and as far as the matter is led to absurdity, I'll read you the next one. The child lawyer commented on the work of a parliamentary representative in a way that she called for the protection of schools from political exploitation of children from the entry of live wall MPs Ivan Pernar in high school where he talks and takes pictures with students and photos on Facebook, inviting them to flee from teaching and visit him in the Parliament. My colleague Pernar, and now we're surprised at what he did 10 minutes ago, and as the greatest evidence, he takes that she's been suing something and she's lost in court. ... But the first degree ruled in her favor, and the second degree ruled in favour of the university. [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] That's right. [[Intruder Pernar: The first degree is important.]] But should I remind you how many times in this House you have called for non-execution of judgments, and when an independent institution dares to criticise you, then all those who are opponents of this institution, you are now taking as allies. And let me remind you, so when you answered that, you said, if I quote correctly, "The problem is Pernar, not the HDZ that took away your future." Which you weren't even wrong, a lot. Therefore, your discussion, or colleagues Turina-Đuric, is the best proof of how dangerous it is when we bring independent institutions to depend on daily politics every year. I'm out of time. I'll conclude in an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45144	You were on the verge of breaking the Rules of Procedure and at the last minute you said it. There is no reply to the replica, but it will certainly be in the debate of fellow Pernar, even a little while longer. Now the third replica, dear colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45145	Dear colleagues Turina-Đurić, when you said here: "If you think that it does not work well, change it." But what are the parameters, which are objective measuring instruments based on which we, as the Croatian Parliament, can, which we appointed as the Ombudsman, can solve it before the term of office expires and decide that it does not do its job? Is it a report? What's this report now? The report comes here to us on benches and in that report is actually a state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia for that year and that year, okay. And there the lawyer actually lists some kind of picture, follows the application of regulations, follows how the system works, she shows it to us in that report, in some way critically perhaps also analyses the work of the executive authority at all levels, which is its job, warns of certain failures, gives us some guidance and guidance for further executive authorities. So, through the report, she's finding some sort of state of mind in society. Where we are good, where we have failed and where we can be better. And now that we refuse that report, what do we want to say? That we don't accept her assessment of the situation and that what? That we don't respect her recommendations and that because she wrote that the condition is what it is, that we're going to replace her? ... For what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Because you don't like it, Ivan. Well, then, but that's not an objectively justified reason. [[I don't like it.]] I'm just saying how serious I am, it's good for you, but it's not for me, it's subjective. It's not about her, it's about the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45146	Thank you. All right, come on, please. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[/The Intruder Voter, you don't understand.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45147	Very short. I've discussed it and expressed myself that way by saying you have a law, which we're changing but currently in force. Have courage, change under that law, although I absolutely believe that this law should be thrown out of the law regarding the report because it is the only correct way. But leave it in the law and add more, so I mean I wanted to tell you, the government with nothing this law wanted to fix. She's absolutely him, please? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. That's scary! So we didn't do anything to fix this law. If we were at least, here's the proposal, there's a proposal for a position, a coalition of parties, and there's a little bit of a fix on the proposal, that is, the choice. But these two basic things, and this is the report, and this is the part that now stands as far as it stands, which is that when the law comes into force that it will be resolved not a word, not even a word from those who voted for that lady three years ago, who are now the new HDZ coalition partners and who are very much in favour of human rights and children's rights and so on and so on. I'm particularly disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45148	And we have another replica, dear colleague Ana Comparić-Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45149	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues Turina Đurić, I just want to point out some of the things that you pointed out in your debate, and I think they're very good. And in that direction, I think all of our future debates and defense laws should go my way. So, first of all, all the Laws on Advocates should be harmonised regardless of which Ombudsman is involved. We can't have different criteria, and institutions do the same work they do. The other can't and what I personally don't consider not to be a reason for the shift is that not accepting the report is something that can't be the reason for the shift. A lawyer's report in this House should not be voted. The Attorney General's report is something that gives us here which laws and regulations give us guidelines in which we need to change our laws, regulations, when we bring a budget in which direction I need to increase the budget, etc. So you shouldn't vote on it at all. What are we voting on? About the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and now that we like it or don't like it, that's what we vote on. We don't vote on the lawyer's work. We only vote on whether we like how it's written or not. And I find that unacceptable. We should actually accept it as something that gives us a guideline in which we should go further. There are still some reports in this House that, I see I am running out of time, I do not have the head to say, and these are the reports of the Croatian Olympic Committee, etc. who are having bile debates, so there's nothing for anyone if that report doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45150	Thank you. So we're done now with, yeah, we have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45151	I'll just answer it for a second. In fact, we have to deal with these truths because we are, and we need to be able to deal with these standards, so we have entered the EU among other things, but not because we have entered this society, because it is important for ourselves. And what you said was great. So all these reports, all this information that we get from the D.A. is whether it's a pub or some of these other specializing in fact should be our direction in the work. The whole series of laws is about the subject they're dealing with. And it is good when they help us and it is good when they are present and it is good when they respond to laws and laws that apply indirectly and directly to the work of them. But they obviously began to resent it now, or someone long ago resented it, so now they're being consecrated. I have no other explanation, because I remember the situation where the attorney general was while we were still the current government reacted very sharply to some of the phenomena and some of the situations that were happening at the time. It didn't occur to anyone at that time from the executive board that in any way they were pulling these people into the media, and even less it occurred to me that they were using these institutes that were in the laws. Therefore, we must rise slightly above some of our own, so I would even dare to say vanity and take care of some of the higher values and stand up for those values.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45152	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. A team member of the Living Wall and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45153	Thank you, Your Honor. There are 6.7 on the show Checked Ivana Paradjikovic case terrible. It's about a kid who started sodomizing a priest when he was 13. And what happened? How did the institutions punish this priest? Says the bishop's secretary, so not just any priest. A man who's in the higher hierarchy of the church. The institutions punished him for the first year of prison, however, he was later re-scheduled to work for the common good. And what happened? That child, traumatized by that experience, tried suicide. However, it kept quiet about all this and did not go public. And then that child, or now an adult, finds out that this priest who sodomized him is moved to another parish and that with that same practice he continues and that now he just changed his sacrifice and is now sodomizing another boy. And at that point he comes out and talks about his case. It would be logical to expect the child's attorney to raise her voice. That they'll say release the public name of that priest. Stop the pedophile. That's what needs to be put to rest. But instead of a loud cry, it leaves silence. The lawyer does not raise his voice and does not ask for the public appointment of this priest paedophile who continues to abuse children. Why? Because it protects him. And you know how the system protects the pedophile? There's one trick, that is, one detail in the whole story. If you live in America and live in a neighborhood, you can easily see the register of paedophiles. And then you look, uh, around me, my neighbor in the building is like a pedophile or a house across the street. So I'm gonna tell the kid, look, this guy's a pedophile, stay away from him. Take care of him so he doesn't abuse you, too. However, unlike America, where the register of paedophiles is public, in Croatia the register of paedophiles is secretive. So in Croatia there are more than 1,000 registered pedophiles, in that register, but you have a child, you can't now go to the register and see where this person lives, or who are the paedophiles around you. It would be logical to expect the D.A. to act publicly and to say that the register of paedophiles is to be published. And why does it matter? Then you'd see who's the priest of paedophile. However, it was part of a system that covered the pedophile, which did not ask for the pedophile register to be published. The SDP lady is angry now. Why are you angry, ma'am? If you're angry, lift up the replica board and replicate, don't moan and throw. So, the role of attorney for children is to protect the rights of the children's interests. It is the right of every child not to be sexually abused and sodomized. No one cuts a razor during sex, especially not a pedophile. But instead of the lawyer fighting for it, she asked to expose the paedophiles, to stop the abuse, what did she do? What did she do, ladies and gentlemen? Could the attorney general have talked about cases of children? Cases of children to be used for application, i.e. for application. Children who are on the street all day begging, who are being used for it. I've never heard her speak. Why is begging where children are used for begging not interested? It's hard to take advantage of children. Of course she doesn't care, why? Because she doesn't care about children at all. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. 50,000 children are starving. How many times have you heard the D.A. raises her voice for hungry children? I don't remember personally. These are just some examples, but instead of sexually abused children, children driven into begging, children who are hungry, she argues, no it's not a problem, issue number one in this country, danger number one for children is Ivan Pernar. Okay, what's Ivan Pernar's danger to children? Yeah, well, with the kid coming and saying, I can take a picture with you. I didn't tell the kids, kids. Come take a picture with me, no. The kids came alone and said, "John, we can take a picture with you." It bothers her, too. Okay, and being a priest steaming a razor with a kid and raping him, that doesn't bother her. The fact that the pedophile register is secret, that you can't know who the pedophiles are in your neighborhood, that you can't protect your children, is not interested. Okay, okay. It's her opinion and every person has the right to an opinion. Regardless, I find her opinion wrong or correct. Personally, I find her opinion wrong and therefore I will vote in favour of a law that will lead to her shift. The second, very important thing, is that Ivana Milas Klaric, means that she has confused the priorities not only but also falsely accused her, as she now falsely accuses. And what was she falsely accusing? She accused her own colleagues from law school of working mobbing over her, accused the Faculty of Law, as a legal person, of actually participating in it. Okay, you have the right to charge, right. Yes, you do. Go to court, the lady went to court, what was the verdict at the end? The verdict was against Ivana Milas Klaric, the mobbing was not done. Mobbing isn't done. And Ivana Milas Klaric had to pay $78,000 in court expenses. Okay. According to what I learn, the law was also familyly written by it. Same family law that the Constitutional Court brought down. These are just some of the details. The puzzle puzzle puzzle puzzles that undoubtedly make it known that it is an inextricable incompetent person, whose rights and interests of children are not in one place that children's rights and interests are not in the first place. I will give another example, there are many politicians who took pictures with children both in school and outside schools in the past and in the present, will be in the future. Whether it's moral or not, everyone has an opinion. The fact is that politicians take pictures with children, however, Ivana Milas Klaric did not complain when children took pictures with Ivo Sanader, Milan Bandic or any other politician. No, you will never hear that Ivana Milas Klaric says that any other politician except Ivan Pernar took pictures with children. There's only one person in her eye and that person is Ivan Pernar ladies and gentlemen. Why? You see, she has her motives, and these motives are unfortunately not child protection and interests, but day-to-day politics and politics. Instead of fighting for the real protection of children from abuse, she became involved in day-to-day political games and became an instrument of debauchery, insult and assault as she was in the past when I said she attacked and falsely accused her colleagues and her own colleagues from the Law School. Instead of covering her ears she does not stop there, she in that finale when she realizes that her chair climate, that no one believes her anymore, that she has lost the trust and children that she allegedly represents both the public and ultimately the parliamentary majority, uses all possible ways and methods to save her chair. And then she accuses the family minister that she conspired against her because she's supposed to not be in HDZ, there. Then why doesn't Mrs. Milos Klaric press another lawsuit and let him prove it in court. If he thinks he's right to unfairly come to her shift let him sue again as well as his colleagues from law school, let him sue. But of course he's a coward and he won't sue the minister of the family. Why? Because she knows there's no basis for her accusations and that such a dispute would lose as she lost against her own colleagues at law school. I think it's a great shame that some of the MPs, despite all this, still support her. From what I understand, we can question the integrity of each of us and the minister of the family and myself and all the other MPs in essence anyone who touches her chair. According to her, the only ones who care about children are the ones who support her. Oh, yeah? It's her conclusion logic. If you're against me, then you're against children, if you're against me, then you're against children. So who is she to have a monopoly on such an interpretation. If she thinks she's a quality person, that she has some value in public or whatever, that she's in charge of our society in any way that she's done a lot for him, I call her on this occasion, here's Mrs. Ivana Milas Klaric to the election run for office, show your social value. I have been elected to this House as the last on the list, I invite you, if you are such a prominent person run for office, you can be the first on the list. But this is how cowardly through the media to attack and insult all those who disagree with her and who seek her shift is low. And I'm sure this House. I trust you won't agree to her manipulations and desperate attempts to save yourself, with this struggle cramped for the armchairs or against her own shift. Ivana Milas Klaric actually shows one essential thing, which is what her real motives are to remain on it, and believe me, these are not children. Its motives are purely material, and its struggle for children's rights is only a front for achieving its personal material interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45154	We have two replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45155	Comrade Pernar, you are not grateful to be held against in some way and contradicted, but I will take the risk. You've obviously got another level of relationship, so I'll dare say, perhaps unresolved accounts with Mrs. Attorney General. Yours without the intention of entering your personal or political or any conflict now, I must say that if this is about applying for your campaign to Croatian educational institutions and urging children to mark from teaching, I have already said it here in the Croatian Assembly, it was not an office, regardless of what the children called you, they did not call you. It's known how he behaves in educational institutions, who enters them, in any way, and they can't be called in any way to mark from teaching. That's not right, I've already said that. Now you resent me if you will, but you shouldn't have done that. Secondly, you've presented a series of reasons here, a series of topics that have not been dealt with as an attorney's institute, and this prosecutor has not. And now that I'm listening to you, and now that I'm listening to hungry children, paedophilia, poverty etc., etc., I'm not sure about that but I mean, I'm getting the impression that you haven't even read this report that's coming to us soon on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and not even the reports we discussed for 2015. There's a very eclectic and clear talk about all this and the defense attorney's reactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45156	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45157	Thank you. Dearest colleague of the Voice, it's very important what someone's work is. Unfortunately, I don't appreciate the work of that person and I don't recognize its achievements. And of her accusations which have already been tried, that they are false; and to repeat these same false accusations of hers again is so easy. Unfortunately, Mrs. Milas Klaric didn't call me one time and say, "Mr. Pernar," or "Is that true at all?" No, because she doesn't care about the truth. She doesn't care what goes in favor of my defense, she's just interested in accusing and blaming her. Based on what? Based on the media inscriptions or what she read in the morning list. Did the morning leaf measure the truth, is that the Holy Scriptures? So if tomorrow morning's paper says that Pernar sexually abused children then she'll repeat the same Pernar sexually molested children and then you'll repeat it after her and that's why I'm against her. I'm not, ma'am, the honourable MPs, because she's against her, but because she's confused priorities, she's confused the pots in her head, and she has a long history of false accusations that has been proven by a powerful verdict. So unlike what you're saying, there's no evidence of her false accusations being proven in court undeniably. And as for marketing, i.e. absence of teaching, see how many of your colleagues are present right now and you receive a salary of 15 to 17 thousand kuna. And ask yourselves what kind of message you send to the disciples about teaching. Thank you. And they're not compensated for that in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45158	Another replica of the esteemed colleagues of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45159	Comrade Pernar, you have said two things that are very easily denied only by entering Google two things. One is that the Ombudsman did not respond to the register of paedophiles, a January 2015 portal diary.hr, so the children's attorney explained that the control of the behaviour of convicted paedophiles is not good enough once they are released, that the rehabilitation deadlines are higher, and with us they are relatively short, that supervision is for example. It shall take longer, when the supervision of such perpetrators of criminal offences may take you longer than 2 years, for offences for which a sentence of 2, more than two years has been prevented, and only if the judge determines such surveillance in determining. And she said that they should be prevented from getting in touch with children, that employers like schools, kindergartens or sports clubs should look for checks in the register of paedophiles but not do so. So that's about the pedophile register. Otherwise, in the Ministry of Justice, such a register exists, but it's not on the D.A.'s office, it's on the Assembly to do it publicly if it wants to. In addition, as regards other politicians besides you, on 16 December 2014, she urged presidential candidates and political conference organizers to take care of the protection of children's rights and interests and not to take advantage of children in the political campaign. It estimates that the problem, the children most often used to embellish the image of individual politicians and parties and their political breakthrough, which was submitted in August 2016, so even before you became a representative. Therefore, I have this impression that if someone against you today initiated a request to the Committee for Conflict of Interest whether you followed the principles of action in the Croatian Parliament because you were, because they think that your speech was caused by the relationship of an independent body towards you personally and one of your attitudes, the commission would probably say that you violated the principles of action and then Mrs. Dalia Oreskovic would come to you. And allow me, President, one more sentence, past time. And the fact that you were chosen as the last on the list in the House doesn't change the fact that the first on the list today is a government official in this same government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45160	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45161	Dear fellow MP, you see, says in a propaganda film by the U.S. government, titled what is communism on Youtube that communists use lies as weapons, weapons protects them. I said Advocate Ivana Milos Klaric did not ask for the pedophile register to be public. From what you've read, it doesn't appear that she's looking for a pedophile registry to be public. So I don't see where I was wrong. As far as the other thesis is concerned, she was demagoguely saying that politicians shouldn't take pictures with children, but did she mention one politician besides me? It's not. If everyone was doing it, then why didn't she mention the others? Why doesn't she mind when Milan Bandic goes to school, why not, Bandic Milan 365, that's OK? She's fine but Ivan Pernar's not okay. And if you think I'm in any conflict of interest, Mr. Bauk, you're fighting me, and not like people, like your co-worker, Tomislav Sauche, who actually plays a sad role in this House today. Unfortunately, it is easier to muddle Ivan Pernar, one of the few people in this House who today, today and tomorrow, says the same things, who did not change his opinions and who is credible than to look at his face and see what our country is in and where you brought her along with HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45162	Let's move on to the next debate. It is the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45163	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, if everything in this report on behalf of the club could contribute to the phonogram, I would give up the debate, but because of the chronology of the fact that this law is being passed, that is, the proposal of the Law on the Advocate General, with the final proposal, I am obliged, on behalf of our club, to present, in fact, certain things that are important for the proposal of this law. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Law on the Ombudsman for Children with a final proposal for this Decision on 7 March 2017. By that decision, the Constitutional Court actually abolished the Law on the Ombudsman for children and ordered that the law in question cease to apply on August 01, 2017. The reason for the abolition of the Ombudsman for children is formal because when it was adopted in 2003, which we talked about here in the Assembly tonight, was not the majority of the present representatives, so qualified majority, which is needed to vote on one such organic law. It is important here to point out that, from the debate and the vote under the Constitutional Court's decision, they are in accordance with Article 27. The Constitutional Court Act, two constitutional judges, and Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Mr. Josip Leko, I assume, because Mrs. Marinović was then the minister of justice, Mr. Leko, representative of the Croatian Parliament. Since at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, the Government of the Republic of Croatia then and then the Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, together with the competent working bodies, actually failed to determine what organic law is. He would only remind himself of the most important points mentioned in the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court, therefore, stated in its argument that the Law on the Ombudsman for Children was adopted in 2003 by the Croatian Parliament and entered into force on 18 June 2003. In the process of assessing compliance with the Constitution of the mentioned Law, the Constitutional Court withdrew one parallel with the reasoning of the Constitutional Court on the assessment of compliance with the Constitution, the Law on the Ombudsman of 15 February 2012, and the new Law on the Ombudsman who entered into force on 9 July 2012, in order to determine whether the Law on the Ombudsman for Children was an organic law. Furthermore, in that same decision of the Constitutional Court, it is prescribed that the Law on the Ombudsman and the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, the Law on the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities and certain parts of the Law on Gender Equality from Articles 19 to 26. By taking effect on this law, the Law on the Ombudsman for Children would cease to apply, and all the jobs of the Ombudsman for children would actually become the jurisdiction of the attorney general. However, by decision of 15 February 2012, the Constitutional Court stated that the 2011 Law on the Ombudsman had not been adopted in the procedure laid down in Article 83 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, Article 83(2) speaks of the adoption of these organic laws, which are developed by the Constitution of fundamental human rights, fundamental freedoms, human rights, electoral system, structure, detour and method of operation of state bodies, and the establishment and detour of the work of local and regional, or regional self-government. For the adoption of the 2011 Public Ombudsman Act, a qualified majority in the 6th assembly of 77 MPs was required, as the meeting then had 153 MPs. The provisions of the Law on the Attorney General which ceases to be applicable to the Law on the Ombudsman for Children have not even entered into force. Furthermore, the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman, which entered into force on 9 July 2012, does not stipulate the termination of that same law or parts of the law, which are governed by the partial working methods and conditions of the elections or the resolution of the so-called so-called ‘registration’. Special Advocates, therefore, and Advocates for Children, nor the attaching of special defenders to the Advocate General. Therefore, their mutual cooperation is prescribed while retaining existing institutional independence. Therefore, the Constitutional Court stresses that at the time of its decision in March 2017, the Law on the Ombudsman for children is still in force. Therefore, a proposal to initiate a procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Law on the Ombudsman for children was submitted because of formal disagreement with the Constitution. Further, the applicant then considered the Law on the Ombudsman for Children to be an organic law and, within the meaning of that Article, was 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should have been passed with 76 votes from 151 to how many were actually in the 4th meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the contested law was passed by a simple majority and the applicant proposed the launch of a constitutional court procedure and the abolition of the law as a whole. When the Constitutional Court made its decision, it was based on its own matters. First of all, if the 2011 Law on the Ombudsman is being developed, the Constitution establishes human rights and fundamental freedoms. And secondly, if this law is being developed, the establishment, the detour and the way the state body works. In the first part, the Constitutional Court decided that, within the meaning of Article 83(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Ombudsman, does not have the mark of organic law. This assessment is justified by the fact that, by changing the 2010 Constitution, the Ombudsman's powers have been significantly changed, and as the authority of the Croatian Parliament's authority, the Ombudsman today has a protective, but a new active role as promoter of human rights and freedoms established not only by the Constitution and domestic laws but also by international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. So, the attorney general is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, not the so-called so-called Special lawyers where Mr. Podolnjak was wrong. For the first time at constitutional level, the occupier recognizes independence and independence, hence independence and independence, what you colleagues of Glasovac spoke of in the work, and immunity as well as representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So other than that... The Law on the Ombudsman is developed in a way that significantly changes the position of the Croatian Ombudsman's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitutional Court, therefore, rightly established, that the disputed Law on the Ombudsman is an organic law, as it governs in fact the structure, detour and manner of operation of the state body. In other words, its adoption in the Croatian Parliament required a qualified majority, i.e. the majority of all MPs, i.e. 77 votes, not 76, to which it was voted in the 6th assembly of the Croatian Parliament. By such an assessment, the Constitutional Court of Justice established criteria which may be applicable in the assessment of the legal nature of the special defence attorneys in this case. The Constitutional Court therefore also considered this issue in this case. He then found that the Law on the Ombudsman for children had no characteristics of organic law at that time. However, it is difficult to conclude from the same provision whether the Ombudsman is considered to be a public body for children. Now within the meaning of Article 83(2) of that same Constitution, and there was actually a problem. That's when the Constitutional Court actually found that it did. When it comes to the scope of human rights and freedoms promoted by the Ombudsman for children, they are established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia, and therefore follows that the Ombudsman acts primarily in areas directly related to the rights, freedoms and position of children as an extremely vulnerable group of that society. So, then in 2003, the government didn't point out like I said it was about organic law. The Constitutional Court has found that the contested Law on the Ombudsman for Children is governed by the structure, the detour and the way the state body works, and thus it is an organic law. That's what I needed to explain. On 6 July 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent an act to the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Advocates for Children, which you received with the final proposal on an urgent procedure only because the law abolished ends on 1 August 2017 so that the smooth work and continuity could continue, i.e. the continued action of the institution of the Public Ombudsman for children. Of course, even after 1 August, the protection of the rights and interests of children guaranteed by the Constitution, the law and international contracts and the commitments undertaken. That is why I say that the Croatian Democratic Union will support the adoption of this law. And of course I invite all colleagues in the Croatian Parliament to do the same. In the meantime, and I am pleased that after the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports today we spoke with the president of our club and with the Ministry and we prayed that some of the things we heard on the Committee itself, that we actually submitted an amendment, and in this amendment we were actually Article 5, in this case, would be changed, where, at the proposal of the Croatian Labour Body, the Ombudsman for children would be elected and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. Article 24(1) would be amended where the Croatian Parliament would issue a public invitation for the selection of the Ombudsmans for children. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for this reason, I invite you to support this Proposed Law on the Ombudsman for children with a final proposal for protection and children's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45164	We have two replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45165	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Babić, I must say, I'm glad we've received amendments that are trying to sort of fix the initial bill we discussed today on the parent board. However, I would personally prefer that, if you had already considered it, and I suppose it is a report on the public consultation that has been carried out on the draft Law on the Ombudsman for children. I would like you to respect those remarks that have been repeated in very many cases, which is in addition to this way of choice, means that the Government is not the one that proposes but that the Parliament actually assumes the role of the promoter, that you have taken into account, in addition, serious remarks that we should avoid repeating the practice that, despite the fact that the Ombudsman has a term of office of 8 years, the Croatian Parliament, or the policy, takes the right to reduce this mandate every year if it wishes to do so through the non-acceptation of the report. That's the first one. And secondly, the remarks also highlighted in the debate, that is this transitional and final provision. So we have an existing decision to appoint a lawyer for eight years. The woman was appointed on 1 April 2014. The term of office shall be until 1 April 2022. We are now in 2017 and simply, regardless of these substantive amendments to the law and the harmonisation of the law, what the Constitutional Court has recommended for us, we think that we should maintain this stability of the mandate, and that is what some Parisian institutions warn us about, and I have already given you what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45166	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45167	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Voter, I love correctness in one debate is based on facts. Well, I'm surprised there was probably a colleague of yours, Bauk, that he might not have advised you about being an advocacy attorney. He can't act outside the system, he can't act. You know there's also a report from the Prime Minister who's the executive body. So, it's not a court case, it's not a legislative, but an executive report as I recall, and here, colleague Bauk, let the Supreme Court say whether or not it is, the CNB, so something else that is related to Article 4. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia in which it is said. That the state government is set up in a way that is shared by the authorities, therefore, legislative, executive and judicial. At the head of the government's division, it includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks by the holder of the authority prescribed by the Constitution and by law. Well, now, she's not the Attorney General, what you've been saying here all night, she's not the holy letter, the untouchables people, she's gone. So when you talk about her independence, it's a body that complements each other and there's not some kind of apothecary distinction that you and the other authorities. So, we need to talk about it publicly. Therefore, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in this interdependence. The Attorney General herself, therefore, has no independence and independence to answer to anyone. She responds to this Croatian Parliament. In this case, the years of accepting her report of course have been resolved. For the kids, I'm talking now... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45168	Don't throw it away, please. Please don't throw it away. Second replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45169	Dear fellow Babic, I'll be honest with you. Anyone who honestly and honestly and responsibly does his job doesn't have to be afraid of the grade of his work. Right? If the lawyer thinks and talks about herself all about superlatives, that she's the best lawyer, that she loves children and loves her as her own, etc. etc., why is she afraid to stand here in front of us to give our opinion of her work? So what is she? Saddam Hussein, that no one can comment on her or evaluate her. Any person in a function should be responsible. And what you don't think is necessary, that she answers to herself, that she can do whatever she wants for 8 years, and that she doesn't respond to anyone, is that gentlemen were the way you might have practiced during the communist era. Today it's ladies and gentlemen, those times are over. It is time for everyone to show what his works are, to stand in front of the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament to say how he feels about his work. Thank you, I also fully support Mr. Babić's argument and ultimately, what is most important, this law is in the children's interest and needs to be passed in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45170	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45171	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Just for a little while, maybe you weren't listening to this part about the amendment. So, we and in this case, this amendment doesn't make it impossible for the lady you're talking about tomorrow, the protagonist for the children to compete. So, she can, the Croatian Parliament, announce a public invitation to elect a counselor for children no later than 3 months before the end of the term of office. So it does. Secondly, when you spoke, the model related to the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman, in 1993, the Croatian State and the Croatian Parliament were guided by the Swedish model. So... from Rixdagen, meaning their Rixdagen, where they only have 1 staff attorney and laundry what Mr. Podolnjak was talking about, more special deputy attorneys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45172	Thank you. We are now going to the debate of the HNS Club of Representatives and the esteemed colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I must first express a great regret and something I simply cannot believe, which is that we have been almost discussing the Law on the Ombudsman for children for three hours, and none of the MPs who discussed the Ombudsman for children have referred to Article 13. So, we're all talking about the stability and independence of the Ombudsman for children, so let me know, how is that possible if the Ombudsman for children doesn't have access to data that's classified as secrets? And with children most of the cases, related to children, are classified as classified as classified. So the Ombudsman for children should, for every case to be handled and every case to be stated, submit a special request to be removed, to have insight into these classified information, that he may do his job. Here and I must say that the CNS is the first amendment that the CNS has submitted, which is that the Ombudsman for children, as well as all other lawyers who have explicitly stated in their law that they have the right to access and data that are classified. It was unthinkable for us and simply, we couldn't believe that it wanted to deny the Ombudsman for the children and I think it really saddens me that after 3 hours of discussion, none of the MPs looked back at it, and the more the committee, the more the morning, none of the colleagues mentioned it, and I mentioned it, and I was just commenting as Mr Babic, when I saw the report from the board. This did not mention in the report to the Committee that I had mentioned that the HNS would seek an amendment to which it would refer to the confidentiality of the data. Also related to the report submitted by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Assembly, we have been thinking and talking for a long time and consulting in what way there is some kind of control over the work of the Ombudsman, that it can't happen to choose a lawyer for 8 years, which then becomes immeasurable and no one can do anything about it. And we have tabled an amendment in which we propose that the Ombudsman, so he has in his Rules of Procedure specified that he adopts an annual plan and a work programme. There is absolutely no provision in the Rules of Procedure of the Advocate for Children that he must meet anyone with this plan and the work programme. So we're looking for the Parliament to be familiar with the plan and the program of work that you've been counseling for the whole year and all possible changes. And then at the end of the year to draw the line and to see what the Ombudsman had given himself, whether he followed those provisions that you had set for himself that would work over the year or, say, more than 50% or 50% of the plan was not fulfilled and it wasn't done. I don't see why you can't ask the Attorney General at the time, here's why you're asking yourself why it's not fulfilled, and just because we simply depolitize just accepting or not accepting the report in the Assembly, we have some particular valorisation of the work that the Ombudsman himself has set up before that. We know for ourselves that in his work the Ombudsman often gives opinions that are contradictory to what the ruling structures, ministries or someone is working with, always gives opinions that can be said to hold the ruling position, unfortunately with this report there was an opportunity to say some vengeful campaign. But if we have a concrete work plan and we see that this Ombudsman is implementing the work plan that you've given yourself, we're simply moving that political connotation from the possible non-acceptance of the report. So any non-acceptance of the report would then come down to evaluating the very work that the Ombudsman had given himself. I also proposed on the committee in the morning and I said that we are thinking about the model that the Ombudsman is not proposing the government but that we should transfer it to the Assembly and the parent committee in the Assembly, and today we are looking at other provisions on other lawyers and other institutions that have come to a solution that has been submitted as amendments on behalf of the club of HNS, HDZ and the Club of National Minorities, which is that the Ombudsman is no longer proposing the Government, but that the Croatian Parliament is in charge of both the public invitation and behind it to propose a session of the Croatian Assembly itself for the election of lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45174	Thank you, too. One is a replica, a distinguished colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45175	Honorable fellow MP Puh, so you've actually perfectly said that every man elected on public duty should present his work plan and ultimately allow his work to be valorized. And you're probably thinking why would someone be against it? Well, the obvious answer is why would he be, because he knows he's incompetent and he's doing bad work. one who does his job fairly and honestly and responsibly is not afraid of the public or parliamentary representatives evaluating his work. Why are they so afraid of it? And in fact, it's their fear, the fear of those people who don't want to account for anyone and who want to work only in their own interests, and not the general interest, that's actually why your amendments and suggestions bother them. And for this reason, do not have any doubt that we will support your amendment because it is ultimately not only in the interest of transparency but also in the interests of children themselves because this law or the institution of the Ombudsman for children exists for the sake of children and not for the sake of the lawyer. And that's something that unfortunately SDP colleagues have completely lost their mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45176	Thank you. Since there is no response to the replica, we move on to the next individual debate. Comrade Miro Bulj, who is not here, loses his right to debate. Well, then let's move on to the debate of our esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45177	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Apart from Mr. Ivan Shuker, I think you are the only member of the government in the history of all governments who at this time of day or night in the Croatian Parliament, so you will be commended, which does not necessarily mean that they will change the tone of their debate. So, the first circumstances that led to this law I would call it that the Constitutional Court here was something that in that "Millionaire" quiz was a Joker call. So after 12 or 14 years had passed since the law was passed, after having made a series of decisions similar, they remembered to make this decision, so that in 2011 or 2012, a very similar law would probably have been passed then and after that, probably this debate would have gone differently, but it did not. In this law as proposed three serious remarks, one government's involvement in the proposal of a child counsel who has been corrected by amendments to four ruling clubs is the second consequence of not accepting a report that is in itself problematic from the aspect because an eight-year term of office actually comes down to eight one-year term and reduces the independence of the children's defenders and any other institution where non-acceptance of the report results in the termination of the term of office. This does not happen with the National Bank, although as far as the People's Bank and this kind of independence are concerned, the ruling coalition has almost fallen apart after a month if it will even vote on the National Bank's report. The non-acceptation of the state's attorney's report has no effect on the termination of his term of office, nor on the President of the Supreme Court, we won't even talk about these agencies. They were always my favorite independent regulators and my hair was on my head when they defended their high wages by being independent. The only thing more hair on my head was when my colleagues came along with that they were independent so they should have a special place in the system. So this is the first serious objection to the law on non-acceptance of the report. Of course, the argument which speaks of such a provision and in the current law is something that I have no good answer to except to say that it was not good and that, fortunately in 12 or 14 years of the existence of that law, it was never used as a reason for the attorney's replacement of the one last or this one, I think at this time we had two, attorneys. The second question is whether Croatia should have more defenders. So we had passed a law that envisioned the removal of several lawyers, but for some reason decided to stay at a larger number of lawyers. This story of the Constitutional Court's decision was also an opportunity for the government to once again valorize the need for us to have three special lawyers so that nothing would likely happen if all three specials were abolished and put them as deputies of this regiment. It seems to me that we've chosen the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities since her term of office, the fact that we didn't adopt a report last year, that there was no conclusion on her report, that it was also valid for the Ombudsman for the children. If the prosecutor for gender equality had barely passed the report, then perhaps instead of three political crises, we should only have one when we decide on the report of that lawyer that covered everything, it would be less likely then our discussions and thesis. In order to help the Government in some way, I am as an individual and representative, not on behalf of the club, formulating an amendment that would set out a little more precisely what they wanted to write in their bill, which is precisely what the Parliament must do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, most of which, and how many times to obtain the conditions for resolution. So if the meaning of the law wasn't just for the current attorney to be replaced, then it would be logical for the government to accept my amendment. And then, that would make sense. Therefore, I would like you not to accept this amendment, I will have two minutes less to attack you for your true intentions, to say that you are not, that this provision of the law does not even comply with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, because the Parliament is drawing conclusions on something, the Parliament does not accept the report. So the President of the Parliament will sign that the Croatian Parliament has concluded that the report, I do not know how to take note, accept, accept and then be the basis for action. You can't sign something the Parliament didn't bring because there weren't enough votes. And then to spare you, as you say unfounded criticism that you want to just replace this the attorney then I wrote it, let Parliament do it twice in a row, and then my colleague Pernar will agree with it, because once we can get away with making a mistake, we should give a man or woman a correction, and then if she doesn't again, then I really think, so what, we won't agree now, that... Excuse me, male or female, colleague Anna, if I'm late in the night, here after 1 hour, I'm a little relieved of my concentration. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's the intensity of my amendment to defend the government with unfounded criticism that they're trying to replace this particular prosecutor. The other thing is, in the transitional provisions that the adoption of this law de facto reboots the whole story and that the attorney has to be re-elected, or counsel. Now, the law in its contents is almost identical to the applicable law. And there's no new authority that the attorney general would have brought in to justify himself and that he can't possibly defend himself that the current mandate can continue until the end. However, I do not know how the fate of this amendment will be for the SDP Club of Representatives, I will closely monitor whether the Minister of Government will get the authority to accept the amendments of other applicants not to the government's meetings, and then we will be able to prepare ourselves for Friday, but since there is no Professor Podlonjak only so that, just because a few hours ago, he asked me what position he was. So our position is like the SDP club that Mrs. Vosovac was talking about to remove these provisions from the law. But if it's a little too much for the government then we've given this less form to prescribe exactly what needs to be met and how to meet the conditions in order to access the Attorney General's resolution. It's not the happiest solution, but maybe it's better than what's been suggested now. By the way, I think it's perfectly justified that this debate on the Ombudsman, the Law on the Ombudsman for Children takes place at a time when good children are already asleep and don't watch this program so that they don't have bad consequences for us to actually take care of children. Now, what my colleague Pernar was saying as the attitude of the Living Wall, or I'd rather say that's his attitude because I don't know what other colleagues from that party think of it, in the best way to prove how good it is to have such so-called. independent institutions, when I say so-called. I don't mean that they're not independent but that's what we call them, but then Babić talked about this mutual perception and addiction, etc., and then the word independence in addictive and interdependence doesn't exactly stand in the best logic,... Yeah, but they're not the body of power, so what government do they have? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] They are obliged to warn institutions that they are not doing well, and then if institutions are going to fire their slap every time they warn them that they are not doing well, then they are not independent, so they have no purpose, then it is better to do so by some department at the ministry or I don't know the ministry service. So that, in itself, doesn't make sense that independent bodies aren't independent. So, if they're going to get a slap every time the Parliament refuses their report, it doesn't make any sense, so here's my colleague and colleagues, I hope that my attempt at new techs and a little politics will come across a not-so-powerful refusal from the ministry, so I'll see you Friday at the vote when we can work out the amendments as well. And Mr. President, I came here at 7:00, you've been here the whole time, if you need a break to rest, just say no problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45178	Here's another one that fellow Pernar times two, then we'll take a break. Was it a replica? I saw it wrong, didn't I? I saw it wrong. ... You have to, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45179	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Actually, my colleague Bauk said... Or in the morning about the MPs, MPs serve their homeland, their people for 24 hours and have no working hours, what I assume to be yours, but I am particularly sorry for all these people who serve us, technical services,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and our constituency guards who work overtime and it is more appeal to you, President of the Croatian Parliament to find actually opportunities to pay for this overtime, I know, knowing you, I know we will try everything to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just one little replica for you. You said when you mentioned a special so-called. Special Attorney General, I remember during the PDO, and that's what I read and thought about the occupier there was no reason for that so-called. The special defenders, and I think that that's why the public defender was actually more and more deluded by his importance. And you're right about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45180	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45181	So, as I was in charge of reducing all these institutions in this international government, then there were ideas that those 3 institutions, or 4, would join together into one, would appear to be some kind of reduction, as we have today brought together two agencies into one, okay, or we will bring them together on Friday. So it's legitimate to discuss whether we need these special defenders. And should these be the ones? Let's just say that the attorneys are now somewhat more exposed to shifts, by the Parliament, maybe we need another defender, actually a defense attorney, who would defend lawyers from unwarranted shifts, let's say it could be a trap in the attack of creativity. As far as professional services are concerned, you know what? When I once read as a minister a report from the attorney general, then sometimes my hair was lifted on my head about why I didn't agree with what they wrote and concerned among other official relations, but on the other hand you have to have such an institution that she better warns you so you correct than to come warn you after this other independent institution. So, when you're warned, you have an opportunity to make things right, and as far as paying overtime is concerned, it's a legal obligation. So, the legal obligation is to pay overtime according to the Labour Act, I have no doubt that it will be done so that officials generally loved overtime because they did get something more than just regular work or get the days off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45182	Okay. Then here's the final hearing, five minutes, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45183	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, we can sum up this debate in two parts. One part of the MPs advocated responsibility, and another part of the MPs advocated rights without responsibility. One part of the MPs demanded that the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children may and should not be accepted, and part claimed that it should not be voted on. I personally believe that a report on the work of each official elected by the Assembly may and should be discussed. And on a regular basis, if you need to do it extraordinarily. If he can talk about Minister Maric, he can talk about anyone else. Someone will say the same isn't provided for by the Law on the Attorney General. I agree with you, and I suggest here are colleagues from HDZ to introduce acceptance or non-acceptation and its possible shift, also in the Law on the Ombudsman so that his work can be evaluated. Why? Because rights without responsibility lead to irresponsible conduct. To file charges without grounds, not to deal with the basics of their work, which is to protect children from abuse. To end, they care more about themselves than about the interests of those whose protection they are superior to. It's a jurisdictional one. From the whole work of the children's lawyer Ivana Milas-Klarić, can't be pulled out by my court, not a single positive detail. Her work broke the profession. Her work has led the child's attorney to the situation of day-to-day politics, to pollomise through the media, and about what? What about, ladies and gentlemen? About Milan Popovic, whether Milan Popovic is painting with his son Alexander or about who I'm taking pictures with. These are actually cases in which the public remembers Ivana Milas Klaric, according to Milan Popovic and Ivan Pernar. Unfortunately, she's only interested in yellow, celibacy and fun for the yellow press. Serious cases, the most serious cases of abuse like the one I mentioned in my speech where the priest sodomized and the razor paralysed a 13-year-old child with such cases do not interest her, in such cases she does not consider it important to publicly come forward. But Milan Popovic thinks it should be for little Alexander. Ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, did she do her job responsibly? And in the end, do you think that at the end of the term of office, if the children whose protection is in charge, or whether they are given their rights, will you say thank you to Ivana Milas Klaric or will say a lot we have watched you leave more, you have done nothing for us. I'm afraid there won't be a lot of kids to grieve about her leaving, and that tells you all about her work. If she had done something for them in all her years of office, do not have any doubts that I am grateful to say to the users of her services, or that children whose rights she fought for would not have publicly stood up for her defense. But you see that literally no one stands in her defenses against those whose rights she has protected to God, and with her behaviour now she continues with that practice and actually shows that the only rights she cares about are the ones that apply to her alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45184	It's two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45185	It's not exactly the end of the day, I'd say at the beginning of the day. So, colleague Pernar, you're a little unusually simplistic about this report. Some are for the fact that the report can and does not have to be adopted, and others are as you have already said. So here's point 37. A report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data may and may not have to be adopted, but we will not replace the AZOP. Point 38. A report on the work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities HACOM, the report may and may not have to be adopted, but will not be removed. Report on the operation of the Pension Fund, paragraph 40. Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency as well. Report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments. Then, report on the work of the State Attorney, report on the work of the Supreme Court president. We're not replacing any of these for non-reception reports. So I don't see why the defense attorneys would be treated any other way. We're not replacing HANFA. The Supreme Court and the State's Attorney's Office, I said. We can adopt the Science Foundation, we don't have to. Good thing I'm not going any further on the agenda. So that's the whole story. But when you say someone has, they have to go out in front of someone, if those bodies are going to be absurd. So they're the ones who have to warn us that we're wrong. Thus, the Commission’s report on the conflict of interest, which showed one 30 MPs to the brother or at least warned them if they were to walk with that measure, who opposed us, would never, on the first report, have refused them, and they generally pass their reports unanimously. Or better yet, all those who submit reports to the Parliament should be elected in direct elections, so that if the Ombudsman defends the people, the attorney general will be elected in direct elections. In America, they choose prosecutors or they choose I don't know anymore. Therefore, it is not exactly true that now reports. So here we are talking about the independence of institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45186	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45187	Dear colleague Bauk, I am a principled person. When I say that someone whose work report is not satisfactory should be replaced, I do not only think this should apply to Ivana Milas Klaric, but that the same element should be installed in all other laws and all other officials. So, if the HANFA Labour Report is not adopted, if the work has not been satisfactory, I believe that the President, or Director, should be replaced by the Director, which the HANFAs should already be replaced. So I'm not unprincipled. As for the comments on the Committee of Conflict of Interest, every person who does his job fairly and honestly does not have to fear for his business future. But those who politicise their function, who abuse their function for day-to-day policy accounts instead of children's rights and interests, have to fear whether their report will be accepted. So it's not about voting, not voting, accepting, not accepting, it's about whether a person is honest, morally and responsibly doing his job or not, and Ivana Milas Klaric unfortunately doesn't do it and it's a suma sumarum of the whole story and therefore has to go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45188	And another replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45189	In most European countries, Mr Pernar, in many of these independent countries, the national institutions of the Ombudsman also submit reports to representative bodies to review the situation in respect of certain parts of the protection of human rights. However, they are not shown or voted on. The difference between officials, classical officials of the type of ministers, state secretaries, deputies, etc. They are political officials who are appointed to implement certain political programmes. And the defenders are officials who in some way take care of it and make sure that certain constitutional values in the Republic of Croatia, in some jurisdiction, are valued. And in that part, they simply cannot be compared to other political officials. Lawyers can't be politically biased, they can't be members of political parties. They must not only be independent as, I will call it such a person, but they must call it equal and independent of the parliamentary majority able to do their job, because we are all politicians here. We come into campaign situations, we come into situations that sometimes we might get a little carried out in political activity, promotion, and if the attorney, any of us, starts to warn us that it's wrong to do what we do, to violate some other rights, constitutional rights of some other vulnerable groups, we can't avenge them, we bring ourselves, de facto, into some potential even conflict of interest because we decide their fate and their relationship with us as politicians. You can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45190	The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45191	Mrs. Glasovac, I'm going to end this farce with a simple question, please answer the question, did you have on your jumbo poster for the local election of children or didn't you? You had Mrs. Voter. And Ivan Pernar had no children on his jumbo posters and no other posters or lenses. So you, Mrs. Glasovac, who say you shouldn't abuse children, you used them first in order to get more votes, and that's where you salt your brains and give moral lessons. As for the second part of your remark, you said that the Ombudsman should not be politically and instrumentalised but from the behaviour of the Ombudsman for children, it was seen that she was all but politically impartial, i.e., that she was systematically doing a campaign of defamation and demeaning only one person. And it wasn't, it wasn't you who were on the jumbo poster with the kids, it was Ivan Pernar and of course you were defending her. Of course you're defending her, of course, because she didn't object to your child abuse. It's funny to you, and now you're grinning. But you're actually grinning at the Croatian public who sees your hypocrisy and actually double-faced and hollow arguments that don't hold water. And if they don't hold water, you'll see when there's a vote. You'll see that the simple majority just doesn't think like you do. And you can repeat your hollow thesis until the day of judgment, but the people of Zadar know that you and your children were on your jumbo poster, and there's a lot of rest for me. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45192	Okay, don't give me any hard words for the end of the day... Yeah, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because the minister won't speak to you in the end. I thank everyone. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 a.m. on the agenda of the report on the work of mandatory pension funds. Thank you all and good night. Session interrupted at 01.20 hours. Final proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman for children, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 162. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed the adoption of the next conclusion. First in the proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children with the final proposal of the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. the number 162 was held in the first reading. 2. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. With us is Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Nada Murganić and Minister of State, please show yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45194	We don't accept the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45195	The government does not accept the conclusion of the SDP Representatives' Club, and I ask that we then vote on that conclusion. The conclusion did not get the required number of votes, 36 were for, 3 abstentions and 81 against. Therefore, we are now moving to a statement on the amendments submitted. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted by the distinguished Minister Nada Murganic. Here we go, first legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45196	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45197	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment, MP Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45198	It's unacceptable. Since the joint amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives has been accepted, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the SDSS Club which in some ways contains this amendment could not have been accepted in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45199	An obvious colleague of the Downworlder's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45200	The proposer is right, the essential amendment accepted that only within the Croatian Parliament is the procedure of the election. So I agree not to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45201	Thank you. The third amendment is the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45202	We accept, this is the amendment we discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45203	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4th Amendment Club of Independent Representatives and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45204	We do not accept, since the joint amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, which leaves the current way of proposing by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and transfers jurisdiction to the Croatian Labour Body and the proposed amendment cannot be accepted in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45205	Here you go, colleagues of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45206	The intensity of our amendment was other than what was said just wasn't the intensity of the one which the minister said in an explanation. In this amendment, since we wanted to strengthen the position of independence and stability of the Ombudsman's institution in Article 5, we proposed in the first indent that for the Ombudsman for children, the two-thirds majority should be elected for the reason that this subject of the election or the replacement of the Ombudsman was caused by a deep political polarisation and we believe that such an institution means not only the Ombudsman for children but all the lawyers could and should be made by a two-thirds majority, which would further strengthen and empower all the defense attorneys' institutions and finally resolve this issue so that each time in the elections, each time will come to this situation, given that the eight-year term of the Advocates takes place, that every time the political position is changed, we will have a change because it is foreseen that the reports which will not be accepted in the Assembly will be allowed to be allowed by the General to do so whenever it is possible. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45207	Please join the vote on an amendment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Please now Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45208	It's partially accepted. This amendment shall be partially accepted in relation to Article 13(4) of the amended words become an integral part of the draft law until the adoption of the amendment of the Croatian Liberal Democrats Club of Representatives has been adopted in relation to Article 13(1). The proposed amendments concerning this provision have already been contained in the amendment in question. The proposed amendment in the section relating to Article 13(1) shall therefore become groundless.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45209	Please, colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45210	/Speech is not enabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45211	Are you withdrawing the amendment or agreeing to this interpretation?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45212	I'm sorry, Mr. President, the microphone didn't turn on. I'll do it again. So with this explanation, we withdraw the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45213	6 Clubs of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45214	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45215	It becomes an integral part of the law. 7 Amendments to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45216	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45217	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8 Clubs of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45218	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45219	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9 to the HDZ Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats, the National Minority Representatives' Club and the SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45220	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45221	It becomes an integral part of the law. Number 10 of amendments to the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45222	We don't accept. The adoption of the joint amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Liberal Democrats, the Club of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS has amended the provision of Article 24 in such a way that a public call for the election of the Ombudsmans for children shall be made by the Croatian Assembly within three months at the latest and that the Croatian Chamber of Directors shall establish a proposal for at least two candidates on the basis of the applications received from the public call and refer it to the Croatian Assembly. The possibility of accepting the proposed amendment in this form has been excluded since it relates to the same provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45223	Thank you. My colleague Đuric-Turina.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45224	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45225	Thank you. Amendment 11. Representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45226	We don't accept. By adopting the joint amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives, Liberal Democrats, the Club of National Minorities Representatives and the SDSS Club on Article 24, the possibility of accepting the proposed amendment has been excluded since it relates to the same provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45227	A fellow Downhill, a sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45228	I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. We believe that the Croatian Parliament should elect a counselor for children by majority of the votes of all MPs and that is the key reason why we insist on voting on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45229	Please join the vote on an amendment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 12. SDP counseling club. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45230	We don't accept. The debate on the Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children in front of the home working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the session of the Croatian Parliament, the representatives in the Croatian Parliament seek to assess whether the Ombudsman has fulfilled the activities foreseen by the annual work plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45231	It's an obvious SDP representative club. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45232	Dear Madam Minister, unfortunately I didn't expect a different answer, we wanted to do this with this amendment to ensure the power of the child's attorney and independence of politics in this Croatian Parliament. The lawyer's term of office lasts for 8 years but you insist that, in fact, every year, the lawyers, in this case, the Ombudsman for children in this Croatian Assembly, the political majority can say, we will replace you because we do not like what you wrote in your report. We do not think that this is a good way to go, and we think that this is actually a step back from European practice where the Ombudsman's reports are being discussed in Parliament, but they are not being voted on. Unfortunately, this is how we put the child's lawyer, regardless of who she was on political ice, and every year the political majority in this assembly can thank her for her work. Here's a typical example, let's say that this attorney is a term of office until 2022. But you've already shown your intention here last year, you've rejected her report, you've actually shown that in some sense her work doesn't like it, and that you'll do everything you can to change her, and this is exactly the law that opens up the space for it. Sad but unfortunately true. But that's what you have to deal with, and that's your political responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45233	Are you looking for a vote? Then let's vote on an amendment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. [[Subject Voter: Yes.]] He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. The 13th club of Independent Representatives and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45234	We don't accept. The debate on the Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children in front of the home working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the session of the Croatian Parliament, the representatives in the Croatian Parliament seek to assess whether the Ombudsman has fulfilled the activities foreseen by the annual plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45235	Dear colleagues Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45236	In the proposal for a law issued by the Government, this article tells us that it will be possible to replace the Ombudsman for children every time the report is not accepted. Moreover, the law is made worse in a way that ad hoc will also be able to require a lawyer's report, which theoretically means that the Ombudsman will be removed every month in the Croatian Parliament, which we think at the club is directly endangering the stability of the institution and even more independence of the institution. And we believe that it is in fact the urgency that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the majority of the Assembly, has absolute control over the work of the Ombudsman and is actually holding him in a certain, appreciated position because I am deeply interested in any criticism that is addressed to the work of individual ministries, especially the Ministry of Demography, which, among other things, is responsible for children, when there is any criticism in such a report and whether we will be able to read them at all in such reports. And if we do, I believe that a long time will not be elected counsel for the children. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45237	Let's vote on an amendment that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment No. 14th Honored Representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45238	... The debate on the Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children in front of the home working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the session of the Croatian Parliament, the representatives in the Croatian Parliament seek to assess whether the Ombudsman has fulfilled the activities foreseen by the annual work plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45239	It's an obvious colleague of the Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45240	The MOST advocates' club does not accept such an explanation, it is in fact the same amendment that was the subject of previous discussions and voting. But on behalf of the club, we would like to say that this provision, which is not only in the Law on the Ombudsman for Children but also in the laws that regulates and other representatives of the Croatian Assembly specialising in specific areas other than the Law on the Ombudsman, contains a provision under which, which seriously derivates the independence and independence of the defendants for specialised areas, because it actually makes it impossible for them to truly act independently and independently in this eight-year term and critically warn the authorities of the authorities of failures to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms. Such a provision, which unfortunately lies in all the laws that have tolerated all parliamentary majority of all recent years, has now proved to be a great danger to derogate exactly the possibility of freedom and the independent actions of the Advocates for the specific areas for which they have been established. In that sense, we stay on the amendment, and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45241	Then let's vote on the amendment of colleagues of the Dolnjak that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Amendment number 15, Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45242	We don't accept. Since the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman for Children already stipulates that in the event of not accepting an annual work report or an illegal, unfair or unprofessional exercise of office, the Ombudsman for children shall be relieved of the duties to which he is appointed, we consider it irrevocable to decide twice on the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45243	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45244	Thank you, Mr. President. So the amendment is one of the bigger nonsense I signed in my political career, but as such I would fix this bill. However, it is clear that there is a folk proverb about snow that does not fall to cover the hill, but to leave traces, I will not quote fully so as not to offend the government. So that's it. So you don't care about either the Ombudsman's report or the evaluation of his work, or the majority that should have replaced him, or even the business provisions, because Parliament does not bring reports but conclusions. Therefore, it is clear that the intensities of this law can be called a law on the replacement of a lawyer's name and last name, as the current lawyer is already called. Namely, not even an explanation, that we must do this because of the Constitutional Court's decision to fall into the water after the President of the Constitutional Court's statement at the hearing said that if the Parliament does not pass the law that the Constitutional Court cannot change the deadline. I suggest you fix this law in a way that you put the child's counsel on a life term because every year you can change it in the Assembly, so that we don't bother with the election anymore, but when we get bored, we don't get into the Parliament, we don't adopt the report, he changes, and then we'll see who's gonna call the attorney when he can fly away. And how will the government and the people stand by the people when they change power on the first next report? Dear Mr. President, dear Minister, to spare myself and the MPs, the vote on the stupid amendment, I withdraw it, but I still have afforded myself these two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45245	Thanks, buddy bogeyman. Too bad you didn't put what you said in writing, that would be even dumber than what you suggested. Okay, we don't have a vote on this amendment, 'cause my colleague Bauk pulled it. So we move on to amendment number sixteen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45246	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45247	It is an amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club, the HNS Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats, the National Minority Representatives' Club and the SDSS's Club of Representatives. Amendment seventeen, Agent Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45248	We do not accept, by accepting the Club of Representatives and other Clubs of Representatives, the possibility of adopting the proposed amendment has been excluded, since it relates to the same provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45249	A fellow Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45250	In fact, it is part of the technical amendment because, we have proposed that within the Croatian Parliament, a process of electing the advocates for children is being conducted so that the legislator's intensity, along with the amendment, is not required to vote, we give up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45251	Thank you very much. Eighteenth, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45252	We don't accept. We believe that it is justified that the new law is in force and that a new selection of proceedings for the election of the Advocates is initiated, more so as to change and accept the conditions which make the choice of Advocates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45253	Thank you. SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45254	So, once again, to confirm that the sole objective of this law is to replace an existing attorney. So, it's not even enough that you can change it on the first report, but you still need to nail it extra, so you're going to choose a new one without changing it on the first report, so there's not even a chance to defend your work report in the last year. As far as this law is concerned, this law on the replacement of counsel for children and as far as HDZ is concerned, I don't wonder, I just hope they don't hold a ladder for those who have so far appreciated the work of the Ombudsman for children and are with you in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45255	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45256	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45257	Let us then vote on this amendment which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The amendment did not get the necessary majority, so we move on to the last, nineteenth Amendment of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45258	We don't accept. We believe that it is justified that the new Law on the Ombudsman for Children should be applied and the election and the new procedure for selecting the Ombudsmans should be initiated more as the way and conditions of the election have been changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45259	Thank you. A colleague of Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45260	With this article proposed by the government, she admitted absolutely that this law has a name and name, that it refers to a person, knew it refers to Advocate Klaric and already really Colloquial, the entire Croatian public knows that this law is called Lex Klaric and that is the worst of all. The worst of all that we've done is not give that person a chance to defend his report, but once we've laid down this law, we'll replace a person who's only three years in a term of eight years. So in this law it's all wrong. The government has had the opportunity to significantly improve this law, to make it one of the first law related to defenders to make a certain step. However, the opposite has happened, and of course all the democratic public I hope in Croatia opposes and this is not a good way to go. Because we've already got pucks from Europe that such things don't work, that practice in Europe is completely different from what we do. And, well, that's something it's not, it's really not the pride of Croatia, it's the least of the Governments of the Republic of Croatia. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-11-0.u45261	Thank you. I am voting on this amendment which does not have the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final draft law on the Ombudsman for children. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires half the majority of all MPs, 76 in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 40 against the passed Law on the Ombudsman for children along with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. Just to announce the first item of the agenda, then we'll take the breaks. So the first item of the agenda is the report on the work of compulsory pension funds. The debate is united so it'll be quite interesting. First, a colleague, Hajdas Doncic, Ivan Lovrinović, and counterparts Ninčević-Lesandric reported.
