ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25014	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I demand a ten-minute break to say something about not reacting to citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25015	Thank you. Representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25016	We are looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club for ten minutes regarding the minimum labour price in Croatia and wage policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25017	Thank you. Representative Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25018	I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Most Independent Lists, I would like to talk about the possibility of introducing payment in euro in a limited scope.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25019	Representative Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25020	Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a ten-minute recess due to the public apportioning of the water supply problem for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25022	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break to discuss the state of the blocked citizens and the government's intention to address the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25023	If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a ten-minute break. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] Five clubs called for a break. The first club to take a break is the HNS Club, HSU. In their name will speak the representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25025	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, I must say that the Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds failed to respond to the request of HGK and the coordination of Croatian postal and Croatian telecommunications pensioners' associations. On request to hold a meeting on the subject of a project to install personal elevators in several residential buildings using funds from the European Funds, an application for a meeting. Why does it matter? Therefore, the request was made on 17 January 2017 under the Law on Administrative Procedure, it is the responsibility of the State Administration to contract within 60 days when such a meeting on serious topics is requested. Why are these topics so serious? According to a valid list of residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia, there are 16 thousand 804 buildings of 4-8 floors, so ground floor plus 3 floors, to ground floor plus 7 floors without elevator. At the discretion of the people who deal with about 20% of the buildings, 20% of the buildings will not be able to install the elevator from the platform because of construction, statics, historical reasons and inability, not even the possibility of agreement between the tenants. So we can assume possible installation of elevators, i.e. a platform for some 13 thousand and 500 buildings, respectively, in the period from 2017 to 2020. Why in that period? Because we have a European Commissioner's confirmation for this area that, based on EU policies not to be stimulated, they finance the installation of pensioners' homes rather than the adaptation of living areas in such buildings. We are in action, i.e. in this period from 2017 to 2020, the EU will co-finance such projects with 80%. According to estimates, the installation of one lift for P+4, so ground floor +4 costs with the construction of the project, with all the preparatory work, the construction of the elevator somewhere around 350 thousand kuna. Of course that's what we all get. They get citizens especially older on mobility and able to live a normal life and not have most of their time locked up in their apartments, get, of course, people with disabilities, get all the emergency services to intervene, get cities because the price of their living space increases if they have an elevator. So, multiple good projects. In total, the estimated funds for this project would be 4 billion and 725 million kuna or 630 million euros, so 80% of them would be EU funds while 20% would be the property owners' assets. But I think that there are also cities that are invited to subsidize these activities because the value of living space in these cities is increasing. You will not believe in the city of Zagreb there are 28 buildings P+7, meaning ground floor +7 floors that have no built-in elevator. Imagine an old, 70 - year - old person who may be younger in sickness and inability to live in that sorceress in heaven or on earth, and you can't get down there. It is, therefore, an economically cost-effective project, a human project, which is about improving the quality of life of citizens. And this is just beyond the problem of not answering one ministry to an initiative like this. As of today, I am asking for Prime Minister Plenkovic to be involved in this initiative, following a project approach, so to create an ad hoc project team that will deal with what is useful for the state of Croatia, for the Republic of Croatia and we can use EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25026	Thank you. The SDP advocates' club also called for a break, MP Miranda Mrsic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25027	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the end of last year, the SDP sent a final draft of a minimum wage law that has not yet come to the agenda to discuss it here in the assembly. And Mr. President, you put him to rest because you obviously don't have the priorities of the interests of the workers. We have referred the law to the procedure because we wanted all of you parliamentary representatives but also to encourage the public to discuss the minimum cost of working in Croatia as well as how to arrange minimum wage but also what structure of salaries in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that within a year, the ruling set is constantly expressing its satisfaction with economic growth. Every day we hear both the prime minister and the finance minister talking about our economy growing, our budget growing. But on the other hand, and what we also find negative is that more and more young people are leaving Croatia. We are constantly listening to the need for a demographic restoration of Croatia and the retention of young people, but the government does nothing in this area. For these very reasons, we felt that the time had finally come for minimum wage to come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. We felt that we Parliamentarians were invited to discuss those measures that would have a beneficial impact on the most risky and poorest parts of our society, which are workers with minimum wage. We felt that most MPs in the Croatian Parliament must and should be interested in discussing the topic, because the minimum wage in Croatia receives around 20,000 people. I believe that our obligation in the Parliament is to discuss this issue and help the Government to regulate the minimum wage issue in Croatia by amending the existing law. The minimum wage issue is not only about its increase, but it is a question to be considered within the framework of Croatia's overall wage policy. The law now in force is unpunished, workers are exploited and insufficiently defined minimum wage in law is used for the benefit of employers in order to maximise their profits. We therefore believe that it is the government's obligation, as well as all of us, to work to solve the problems of our citizens, rather than for the sake of partial interests, to push the interests of the rich under the carpet. Unfortunately, the ruling systematically wants to avoid discussing this issue, which is legitimate and known in parliamentary practice. But then the Croatian public needs to, must and wants to know what reasons to avoid discussing the issue of minimum labour prices in Croatia. The Croatian public must know why the ruling view it as sufficient to raise the minimum labour price in Croatia for a hundred kunas and that this problem is solved when workers lose significantly more money from month to month by the fact that minimum wage is not clearly defined. I hope you have heard the report of the European Trade Union Conference in Croatia these days. For Croatia, this is devastating because we are among the seven EU member states with a decrease in wages in the last seven years by 1%. Isn't that enough reason for us all to ask ourselves what we can do with minimum wage, the price of work in Croatia and the system of wages and to provide workers with a decent minimum wage but also better pay in general. I hope that the government is working on a system of national reform plan and that this issue of economic recovery that is now behind us and economic recovery is going forward will encourage the government to move more courageously to address this problem. Because here I see today that 11.45% has been blocked, and the government, which has so far been rewarding the rich for the poor through tax reform policy, has written off the debts. Workers and workers have given a lot for economic growth for the past 10 years, keeping jobs and keeping such a salary. It is time for the government to finally tackle the issue of the wage system and the cost of working in Croatia and to propose concrete measures. So I ask you Mr. President of the Parliament to propose a minimum wage bill comes as soon as possible for the debate in this House and so the Parliament confirms its commitment to finally implement reforms in Croatia and to increase workers who will then be able to pay their debts. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you very much. I apologize for the length.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25028	Thank you. I would really ask that we stick to the time frame. Representative Maro Kristic will speak on behalf of the club MOST of independent lists who also requested a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25029	I would like to thank the esteemed president, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we discussed the comprehensive tax reform, we pointed out that some of its measures could have negative consequences and could jeopardise the competitiveness of some sectors if they survive within the longer term. One of the measures that led to the biggest debate and the biggest concern over the consequences of its introduction is to increase the VAT rate to catering services. At that time, we all agreed that this measure poses a certain risk to the catering sector and that it is even in part contrary to what was in the Tourism Development Strategy. In the long term, this measure, without concrete reliefs and incentives for hosts, would certainly lead to a decline in competitiveness and employment, as well as the closure of a number of catering facilities. During the debate, different opinions could be heard and most MPs pointed out that new solutions should be sought as soon as possible through alternative measures, and the tax rate returned as soon as possible to the competitiveness frameworks, i.e. to bring it closer to the rates that competitive countries have. We have seen the solution in increased surveillance measures and the introduction of some new reliefs for endangered entrepreneurs. One of the measures I believe would certainly mitigate the negative effects of increasing tax rates is the introduction of a limited possibility of payment in euro. Namely, this is not, this is not about any beginning of the euroisation of the Croatian market, but rather about a concrete target measure that will significantly increase the revenues of business entities in the tourist catering and commercial sectors. Various surveys and discussions with numerous business entities have shown that because of the inability to pay in euro many tourists due to procedures and crowds, but also the shortness of their stay and specificity of their travels, for example, the cruise guests do not have time to wait in front of the exchange office because the time of stay on land is limited and... During the tourist season, they give up consumption and the purchase of souvenirs, thus losing millions of euros that can be earned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The estimates really talk about millions of euros. The introduction of this measure requires certain amendments to Article 15. Foreign exchange law and good communication, amending certain rules in the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank. Therefore, in order not to say that this is completely new, so this measure exists in Croatia on the basis of the consent of the CNB of 2011, that day on the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen and on the basis of such approval, the hosts or craftsmen may exceptionally, if the banks and exchange offices are not working, receive a foreign currency which should be deposited in their foreign exchange account within three days. For such consent most Croatian hosts do not even know, it does not refer to all business entities still talking about the inability to receive foreign currency or the possibility to receive foreign currency only in exceptional situations, therefore it is completely inapplicable. I believe that by introducing the possibility of payment in euro, with detailed and clear restrictions on the amount and other important elements, they would have an exceptional impact and impact on the increase in income of business entities in the tourism, catering and commercial sectors. And I am taking the opportunity to invite you from this pay phone, colleagues and professional services in catering, tourism and trade to turn to make some of their proposals so that we can eventually shape a good legislative proposal that would bring some of the desired effects in terms of increasing the revenue and competitiveness of these sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25030	The HSS representative club also called for a break. On their behalf will be the representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25031	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, we asked for a break to point out the problem of water supply. The World Water Day was celebrated yesterday and I congratulate you on the investments in the city of Vukovar in the construction of water supply and water treatment because it is the citizens of the city of Vukovar and the surrounding areas, of course, deserve it. However, I would remind you that over 500 million kunas have been invested in water supply in the last few years in Vukovar-Srijem County, over 700 million kunas in water treatment, last year 60 million kunas in water supply, and still in the Komletins and settlements around the Komletins, drinking water is an invalid health with a high percentage of heavy metals, especially arsenics. 136 micrograms in cubic meters of water is arsenic in the Comletins, and only 10 micrograms are allowed. And what's particularly worrying is that in ten years, only one analysis has been built if I have the exact data. So it was invested in the network, which is of course to be welcomed, but it was not invested in a water conditioning device and was not invested in the critical areas where it is most necessary. Whether we are really interested in supplying citizens with water and health to citizens or political points. Because right now, why is there an emergency solution for the Comlets? Is this because of the upcoming local elections or because of the real problem or because of the public television contribution that was on the issue? So if it is necessary to speak publicly then let's also talk about the problem in the Brod-Posavina County in Sikirevci is a site which is a regional character where cca 500 million kuna has been invested in the water supply and the network towards the town of Slavonski Brod towards Županja,... Vinkovci. One leg should also have gone towards Djakov, and the legal status of this station has not been resolved because of some lobbies in Croatian waters, the Vinkovci Vodavod Brod, I don't know where. No company is established to manage this dump, no sanitary protection zones are resolved and what is most important, what is with the interest of citizens living here in the environment, locals of Sikirevci, Šamac, Gundinci, Babina Greda? What about the construction of plumbing, sewers, purifiers? Yesterday, the director of Vodavoda Vinkovci boasts with 4.5 purifiers in Vukovar-Srijem County, and here it is necessary to protect the gas station that would supply three counties with drinking water, it is not yet finished. Are we all the same citizens, do we all have the same rights? Are we protecting this wealth of water we have? The bigger problem is in the city of Nova Gradiška. There, the city was fueled by the Bachvica battery that was built since 1974, nothing has been invested in it for years. In 2014, it entered the plan for reconstruction and construction of water conditioning devices in the Croatian Waters plan, then nothing was done. In 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture decided that this must be made into priorities. 2016 by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the accumulation of Bačvica was put into priority in the reconstruction and construction programme. Nothing happened in the meantime. You know what happened last year? There's been an accident, there's a malfunction on the devices there, and it's been ordered to protect against the flood to drop that accumulation, and today it's empty. It has been announced that the reconstruction will be completed by the end of 2016, even today the director of Slavce and the Assembly of Slavce has no information on whether it will be completed, when it will be completed at which stage of work. And in the meantime, we come to the dry part of the year, threatening to leave the town of Nova Gradiška and the western municipalities without enough water. Water will have to be purchased from the Davor regional water pipeline or from Novska at a much higher price than the citizens of the town of Nova Gradiška pay for the water cubicity. Who's going to be the price difference? Citizens again. Did some lobbies in Croatian waters and protecting some powerful people from the Municipality of Davor not bring together the water lines Davor and Nova Gradiška to solve this problem, to continue the investment in water supply to the Municipality of Kapela, Sikirevci and Vrbje, or is it because there is no money? We all swear that money for projects like this has to be there, and we see that in practice it doesn't happen because of some weird circumstances. Well, I invite the media to come and record this situation in Novi Gradiška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25032	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also asked for a break and MP Peric will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25033	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are witnessing that the government of Andrej Plenkovic is trying to keep all those pre-election promises that he made at the beginning of his programme. Well, among other things, it is the problem of blocked citizens because every responsible government must think about how many such citizens, it must take particular care of the reasons why these citizens are in blockades, especially when it comes to 328 thousand blocked citizens, which is in fact every 4th in statistical terms every 4th employee, active resident of this country. Currently, the 328,000 citizens owe more than 41 billion kuna. This is extremely large and what the government will certainly do and should actually review the state and structure of debts, debtors. It is so important how much it is and how it is actually the period in which these citizens are in blockades, whether it is a year or over a year. It is now known that over 91 000 and 271 citizens have a debt of 235 million kuna, which is, of which more than 34 thousand is due over 365 days. In this regard, the ministry should create a legal framework where, through a regulation or regulation, creditors can, at the request of the party, make reprogrammes for example. 24 months, and in this way have the opportunity to write off interest. Therefore, a legal framework must be created where these and such debtors will be allowed to regularly pay their debt and in particular, this is the case with communal societies which have an obligation that, within a year, their claim of obsolescence is actually being accumulated, and thus the implementation of the FINA is accumulated for the reasons that these debts must be ousted. So a legal framework that will extend time-limits and allow these deadlines to actually be brought into one optimal length. In addition, the level of costs followed by these tasks should also be regulated in such a way that they cannot be and cannot reach height or be greater than the main level itself which can also be made by amendments to the Implementing Law. We must also be aware that this government has made more than the previous government's minimum salary in the last half of the year and the previous period of 4 years. So the minimum wage increased by 67 kuna. Whether these parties that advocate a minimum wage increase would also like to see that happen. But can you take on the responsibility of those activities and those industries that have a labour intensive activity and which these workers have a minimum wage and get it, or are earning it and such companies remain on the market, or do we want such companies to go bankrupt and deal with pre-profit deals and that these and such employees lose their minimum wage? I think it is in all of us's interest to have as many employees as possible and that it can be quite regular to make payments and pay off all of its obligations because they too are the poorest ones, such as pensioners who are doing their duties properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25034	Thank you, Representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25061	Comrade Pernar, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25062	I'd like to ask for a break on behalf of the Living Wall and the Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25063	What about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25064	As long as it lasts, it means blockages of Croatian studies and does not take place there because of the Ministry's intention to abolish the registration of philosophy students in the next academic year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25065	Okay. All right, I'll see you in 10 minutes, at 16.32. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:30 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25067	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, today I had a chance to go to the Croatian Studies, to Campus Borongaj and visit the students who are there. I talked to them, and they told me that they actually wanted other parliamentary deputies to also visit them, also talk to them, hear the problems they have, and eventually get rid of this whole painful situation with the Croatian Studies. In fact, it may not be considered a problem by most MPs, but students definitely experience it as a problem as well as teachers to abolish the philosophy study at the study, or stop the enrollment of new students on it. That's the first step towards abolishing. The final result of such a policy which is actually destructive for Croatian studies themselves. After all, their institution is to say that its rights and powers have been reduced, so it's trying to marginalize them. She cited the situation as blocking students, which will say that at this point in Croatian studies, where 1800 students attend schools, teaching is not happening there. So classes do not take place, the blockade is ongoing and I do not understand who is in the interest of the current situation, what benefits the government has from abolishing studies, what benefits it has from actually abolishing Croatian studies as an independent entity that has autonomy in making its decisions, etc. etc. Unfortunately, although they do not view it that way, it is the first-class political issue in which they are colleagues from, the HDZ or the MOST on the part of the ministry. They chose their minister, Barisic, who implements the policy that brought the university to a blockade. I feel sorry for those students, and they're nice people. They play there, they hang out, they're good I won't tell kids they're 18, but they're nice and good young people who haven't done anything to anyone. They just want to finish their studies and want to allow the next generations to enroll him and end up as they do, just like they do. Unfortunately, this government won't allow it. Which are the reasons the HDZ is disturbed by the Croatian study. Because those who suffer ultimately are students. Is this actually the HDZ war against youth, the HDZ war against students and ultimately war against freedom of opinion, because there is fear or fear that the abolition of Croatian studies as an independent subject has occurred because some members of their let's say the administrations of their university are skeptical towards the current minister. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to stop waging a war against young men. They've already been left enough by our country dissatisfied with your policy and because they don't see the future in our country. With this decision, all you do is turn young people against yourself. And what would be the benefit of that blockade and the abolition of the study? I don't see him. Perhaps it is in your interest that young people do not study in Croatian studies, that certain directions are lifted. Okay. These are the reforms you have decided to implement and these are the reforms I am fighting – reforms such as the introduction of real estate taxes, reforms such as electricity collection, reforms such as highway collection, etc. etc. That's the reform government. It is this smiling Andrej Plenkovic who comes to us from Brussels and here gives us lessons and teaches us behavior and what policy we should lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u25068	Thank you very much. I expected you to talk about what you announced, and you actually gave a pre-election speech, this pre-election speech in which you spoke to the government, the Government, and I don't know who closes the studies. You know very well if you were there, really, that it has nothing to do with the government, not the government, not the HDZ, not the SDP, not the Most, not any party, but that it has to do with the university and the university administration alone, not getting into whether they're doing good or bad. But any party to accuse it, I think it's completely, so you could accuse any institution in this country of being guilty. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34586	We're going back to work. The first point is: - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Roads Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 111. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34587	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. The draft law amending and supplementing the Roads Act at basic points will explain what is changing in the existing law. These are the 5th amendments to the Roads Act and limit the amount of compensation for the financing, maintenance and construction of public roads paid from the state budget per litre of charged excise duties on energy in accordance with the budget rules. The adoption of a new law for the purpose of fiscal consolidation and the financing of expenditure by the state budget limits the amount of excise duty on fuel for the financing and maintenance of public roads. Also, the limitation of the amount of this fee will not be carried over to a new financial year, which is by law, which must be paid by the Law on Roads to Croatian highways and Croatian roads. The second point to be amended is introduced the definition of exceptional transport. So far it has not been in the Roads Act, nor in the Road Safety Act, and it is further determined that the extraordinary transport carried out by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior that they are exempt from the obligation to issue an emergency transport permit. Parts forming a public road are complemented by facilities, cycling trails and foot-and-mouth disease, thus harmonising the definitions of components and public roads with the definition of unclassified roads within the meaning of the Roads Act, the release from the obligation to pay toll for emergency vehicles. This provision will specify the vehicles to which emergency services are used by highways and charging facilities which will allow highway managers and toll-toll facilities to be treated equally with users. VAT funds for the use of highways and road facilities under charge by an emergency service vehicle will be provided in the state budget at the positions of the transport ministry. This provision shall enter into force on 1.1.2018. The necessary funds for VAT are estimated at 3 million kuna per year. Elimination of the exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the right of construction and the right of service on the public road and equalising the conditions of business in such a way that all entrepreneurs will have a obligation to pay compensation for the establishment of the right of construction and the right of service on the public road. We have harmonised this with regard to the European Commission's observation that this has been established and based on the opinions of the consultants we have hired. The provisions of this Roads Act shall be aligned with the Law on Exclusion and Exclusion Compensation in such a way as to facilitate entry into possession in such a way as to replace the current term of waiting for the power of the authorisation solution with the starting date of the enforcement procedure. This will certainly speed up the realisation of infrastructure, road projects. It is determined that part of the costs for the regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter service in units of local self-government from the mountainous and mountainous areas are financed from the compensation for financing public road construction and maintenance. Cost to be paid from the state budget at the expense of the Croatian Road Company. This provision allows for reducing the budgetary expenditure of local self-government units from mountainous and mountainous areas used for the regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter service. The funds are provided in the financial plan of the Croatian Road Company for 2017 with projections for 2018 and the nineteenth year amounting to 20 million kuna. Finally, the infringement provisions are complemented in order to punish a treatment that is not in line with the provisions on the conduct of an extraordinary transfer and the non-payment of the toll. I note also that any possible comments on new amendments to the articles will come order and we will take account of this in the context of a complete amendment and the development of the new Roads Act that we expect within the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34588	Siništa representative Hajdash Doncic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34589	Thank you very much. I'll ask you a few questions, and I'll start with a sentence, so what is this? So you don't set the criteria for part of the cost of winter service. So no altitude, no number of miles of unclassified roads, no original income from local administration units and self-government. So one good initiative you're ruining at the beginning. What's my conclusion? So how are you going to split the money? By party belongings, probably. Why the law didn't define it and why... Under the minister's rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I haven't read anywhere. Secondly, why are you limiting the excise duty issue with the maximum amount foreseen in the state budget that year? Why if spending for God's sake is higher, why wouldn't Croatian roads get 50, 100 million kuna more to build, to co-finance the necessary infrastructure. These are open questions that you could better resolve with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34590	Replica reply Secretary of State Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34591	The elected parliamentary representative, meaning the question of mountainous and mountainous areas and the definition of the criteria for the allocation of funds will be specified by the Regulation, will not be allocated in any other way by party membership. And the other thing about excise duty, the excise charge, what's the matter? It is related to the state budget and the definition of the state budget. Normally, for the sake of the functioning of the state budget, we will define it in the first step, but in the coming years we will make sure that these funds are shown realistically. They're now about a billion and 800 million kuna, and that's how we're going to form those items in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34592	Representative Arsen Bauk reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34593	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to present to you in the replica a proposal for a request and perhaps a request. Therefore, arguing the amendment, i.e. the addition of Article 89a. You have proposed that the decision to introduce toll should not be taken in the event of the use of highways and facilities on state roads on specially marked police vehicles, vehicles of the Armed Forces, fire trucks, ambulances and vehicles of the Mountain Rescue Service. My proposal, application and requirement is to provide for the same not in this law but perhaps in some other law for the use of ferry lines or for the transport from the island to land and vice versa for police vehicles, military vehicles, fire trucks, ambulances and GSS vehicles. Something similar was voted in the previous meeting of the Emergency Vehicles Assembly for the use of ferry lines. One amendment that was one of the opposition MPs, so here's my humble appeal to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34594	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34595	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you mentioned what I had warned all along that the areas of the mountain-mounted area. Local self-government does not have enough resources to maintain winter service, primarily because of poor indexation which is catastrophic and unfair and these local self-governments do not have enough resources to maintain a vast area that is empty or have winter services. However, I am interested in how and by what criteria this money will be allocated, if we have an unfair indexation, if it is given by indexation according to a ton of oma is unfair in the beginning, on which basis and which criteria will be allocated funds either on the surface or exclusively on the roads, miles of roads in that area, i.e. traffic, I just don't see a way or a political key as it has been in everything that's been shared? So directly if someone in power in the state before local elections or after local elections will share funds either SDP, either HDZ or anyone. So I'm interested in the criteria because I come from Sinj of Cetina, and I know that there's always been an unfair distribution of funds. So here if you can answer here publicly in front of the entire public or the leaders of local self-government, and also citizens expect how these 20 million kunas will be shared in mountainous and mountainous areas, i.e. Undeveloped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34596	Replica reply Secretary of State Tomislav Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34597	Dear Mr. Bull. Until the next reading. In any case, we will accept this observation that the basis of the regulation is to allocate funds, and with all interested, which means with municipalities in mountainous and mountainous areas and with counties in whose area these municipalities are located, we will recommunicate the terms of the regulation and after the legislation is passed we will make a rule by which all criteria will be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34598	Thank you, Secretary of State. Representative Marko Vesligaj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34599	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here they are also looking around these non-existent criteria for mountain-mounted areas, I think that at least we should have gotten some guidance and hints today because when you do a little bit of analyze who is in the mountain-mounted areas, despite what was mentioned here that indexation is partly and unfair. Yes, but you have local units that are, say, in the 4th group, located in the hill-mounted area, so they have a development of more than 100% of the national average. The other thing I find extremely important to consider is the original income per capita. We have a difference from 19 thousand kuna to up to 550 kuna per capita. This has not been taken into consideration at all, we are now giving only mountainous and mountainous areas. I don't mind giving co-workers, each kuna, given that I come from local self-government myself, every kuna that comes from the state is welcome because the state unfortunately took most of our funds, but it's bad that we didn't at least get those criteria, that at least part of the analysis was not done. I hope that it will be done certainly in another reading and that you will take into account some local units outside the mountain-mounted areas that have extremely low original incomes, which have a large area, which have a large number of unclassified roads, and because of the criteria they were like to enter the mountain-mounted area at all, this whole system should change the same, I think that some of them have earned a lot more than those currently in the mountain-mounted areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34600	Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34601	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm going to tie this to this theme of the road we're listening to this morning. And this gentleman from the ministry here, I'm wondering this pledge today is that Croatia is in one embrace of legal paralysis. We hear arsenic here in the water, no one reacts, 330,000 blocked. Questions for you, what's the real cost of building highways per mile? First question for HAC. Second, what about the affairs of the sucking road, etc.? I say by mile because it was proven long ago that the Croatian army would make those roads both faster and more efficient and much cheaper than is now being paid. As possible... example, you have a company extracting gravel per cubic 24 kuna, selling viaduct to 80 kuna, and viaduct to HAC for 150. It's a kleptocrat for me, there's no quality control. I would suggest that the Croatian government form mobile courts that will go from municipality to municipality and deal with these local sheriffs. And he would also suggest to the Catholic Church that these thieves... until they return the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34602	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I don't open the debate. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists has applied for participation in the debate. Two MPs will share the presentation. The first will be Tomislav Žagar, the next Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34603	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So the State Secretary, in its introduction, actually included everything this legislative or legislative amendment makes, what this Law amending the Roads Act brings. I'll try to touch with a few aspects what we at the MOST Club think is good and I'll touch what we think is a little bit and troublesome right now. And since this is the first reading of the law, the MOST Club gives support to this law in its first reading and, as the Secretary of State said, and we believe that those remarks will respect the second reading that would then improve this legal solution. First of all, yes, here I can say, the essence of this law or, as I see it, it's a bit small and the secretary of state here, it's unfortunate that he defends this law in front of the Ministry of Transport, although one provision that actually limits the amount of compensation for the financing, maintenance and construction of public roads, somehow seems to me to belong to the Ministry of Finance, so the Minister of Finance should defend it here instead of the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State is certainly not satisfied with the fact that the less money comes to the Ministry of Transport. We find that, in some ways, not the best solution. The truth that public finances should be kept under control should be consolidated. However, the truth is, I will do something about it later, that we have major problems, especially in the area of county and local roads. And believe it somehow when a man thinks even though the roads are categorized there are actually two kinds of like this by my understanding of the roads, these are highways and fast roads that are even physically separated. And all those roads that pass through villages that aren't physically separated are actually local roads. People live with them, people live with them, and they settle there. So we have to say it maybe this picturesquely, it's not a good message if we say we had a referendum, the citizens said theirs, we don't give our highways, it's not good that we say now we don't give for our highways. So, regarding this part of limiting the amount of compensation, we believe that at this point it may not be the happiest solution, if necessary good but certainly it will not help build and maintain Croatian roads. Croatian highways, there are about 900km in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia roads 6 thousand 750km while local and county roads have 18 thousand and 534km, respectively. I found information somewhere that there are about 240 employees in the county roads. When it is divided by a mile of roads then a ZUC employee comes to 95km of local and county roads. In Croatian roads on one employee 16km while in Croatian highways 3km. It's not even weird, it's actually kind of a logic. However, in this respect, the ZUCs, the County Road Administration, justify their need for more funding and for the large, large, actually mileage of the roads they maintain. What may be most important, when we talk about Croatian roads in general, about Croatian highways and local and county roads, is very important transparency. History has shown us that it is not good when these processes are non-transparent especially in the publication of public competitions, maintenance, there has been construction because then there are various manipulations and criminal actions. It is not an isolated case of the Republic of Croatia, there are levels of the EU country that know which section of the highway is held by which mafia to express itself. So Croatia is not a special case, but what Croatia must in the future and precisely because there are very many roads, I believe that each of you and each of our citizens travels daily on such roads, the Japanese themselves say the pits that are full of holes are full of patches and these roads cry simply for restoration. If you go for a little ride, here we have in Slavonia hill-mounted areas, the Vočina area, if you go for a ride on those roads, then you can actually see how bad they are, and these roads regularly pass through the woods and simply the means to rebuild them are gone. Often there are rinks and other dangers involved. If we were to go back to the law, I say, the secretary of state mentioned it, what was good, which was, I think it was included in the Betterment program, when it was renewed the road to restore and walk and bike paths, all that means what goes along the road, that's very good, and this law predicts that it falls within the road zone. This elimination of the exemption from the obligation to pay compensation for the right of construction and the right of service may still explain it to us by the State Secretary regarding those cities, the municipalities through which the state road passes. If they have a parking lot so if... parking, how has it been solved so far? Will the future cost them now or will they have to pay Croatian roads an amount that would actually reduce their benefit from the maintenance of the parking lot itself? As far as these infringements are concerned, yes, certainly many countries have, it is necessary to impose penalties on all those offenders who do not pay because there is always the first question of justice in society why someone would pay and someone would be excluded from paying those costs. These vehicles, as regards the vehicles of those who, whether it's the police, about first aid or other firefighters, are foreseen here, it's good that it's foreseen, so those vehicles are properly marked, especially if they have rotating lights. If it didn't happen then that, someone mentioned that both fire companies or someone driving along the highway, to say this out of the obsess, of course it's not the case, but it should be specified that there are clear rules in which someone can be free of tolls. And finally, let me conclude, the MOST club will support this law in the first reading, and we hope that by the second reading, a lot of things will be clearer to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34604	The next part of the presentation in front of the club of the Independent Lists will be represented by Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34605	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The first reading and, of course, is expected that everyone makes their remarks and that these changes are best in these given circumstances. However, there is a particular need to give an emphasis here and I intend to give it in front of the club, so these are areas of mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas that do not have enough resources on their unclassified roads and also decentralised funds that go towards the county, according to the ZUCs mostly do not focus there. That's why when this law is changed and when it comes to 20 million kunas, I know it's in the Ministry of Transport, without the Ministry of Finance, as my colleague, Sagar, has said, impossible, but there must be criteria and regulations. To allocate funds as so far per party key, it is also done at the level of county roads and administrations. That's not good. It's not good that without any rules because it's an unfair indexation itself. We need to be aware in the area, we need to know that in the area of Gorski kotar, Dalmatian Zagora, like at this point local self-government does not have enough resources. And this is a positive 20 million kuna. It may have even been fairer to the extent that these areas have been taken away, that even more resources should be considered for these areas because it is impossible for these local self-governments that have fewer jobs to provide more and more resources. I would ask you once again here to make the rule clear by the second reading, but it is again a problem we have a huge one, and these are promises to correct the unfair law of 2014 means indexation, i.e. on regional development where some unfair criteria are taken, i.e. The indexation of development where, therefore, those who are undeveloped are declared developed and vice versa, purely by unfair criteria. So it's not just the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, it's the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Funds that made the promise that the law will be applied in 2017, but it's not. Here they say because of the elections, and a new indexation will be made in 2017, a fairer indexation for the whole mountainous area, i.e. for all groups who have been unjustly expelled, although this could easily be solved. But this is one very important, one important support regional, i.e. Areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted areas and without criteria shall be open and non-transparent space for the allocation of those funds. And for this reason, I propose that even in front of the MOST independent lists, criteria and rules are made until the next reading, so that local self-government leaders can plan in their budgets and that it is generally known that these funds will go, rather than just as in all governments only by political key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34606	Thank you, Agent Buljo. At the presentation of MP Tomislav Zhagar, there were two requests for replication. The first representative, Josip Djakic, asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34607	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've made sure that we have problems financing road maintenance in the Republic of Croatia, but you haven't mentioned since these problems and who caused them. The reduction of funds or the halving of funds in 2013 from 240 million to 120 million kuna, meaning half the revenues of the county road administrations were reduced, and these were terrible problems. So let's just say, in County, the resource-subravska so far is less than 29 million kuna of income to the County Road Authority. If you look at the table and everything but Krapina-Zagorska and Istria who received money through extraordinary means, everyone else was cut off. This is what your former Minister Hajdas Doncic did along with the director of Croatian Roads, redistributed funds to his political likeness as he loved it and knew along with my friend, director of Croatian Roads Mr. Kos. And that's what we know. And you're wondering where the problems came from today. The problems are because you did not react when you had to, according to your minister and your county, put in a stalemate position together, as well as all others, all 18 who had reduced resources and who had caused problems as a tragedy because they were not maintained, could not be renovated, could not be invested and could not be brought to the end what was necessary on public roads and needed rules. We hope that the proposals of the County Administrations Association which are concrete, clear on increasing the allocation for those county administrations that have fewer incomes or which they cannot to finance yourself, that will be in the next [[The President's incursion: Time.]] the period in which the Regulation is regulated and settled. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34608	Thank you. Replicate reply by Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34609	Dear colleague Djakic, I am convinced that you and I are just as concerned that our county is progressing, there is no speech at all. I mean, you guys, when you're talking about 2013 changes, it's really the ZUCs's downside. But let me put it this way in Slavonic, don't play Tosho now. You know well that those years 2013, 2014 right in Virovitica-Podravska County came most of all ZUCs over 40 million kuna intervention funds. You must remember that. So I don't agree with you that this is exactly how it was determined by the political keys. But as far as this is concerned, as far as the legal solution is concerned, I always tell me, and now this legal solution will trouble some things. But anyway, what I'm sure the two of us agree on right now, the ZUCs have problems. I'm sure we agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34610	Representative Ante Sanader also requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34611	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Secretary of State and my associates. Mr. Sagar, you said one sentence in your debate that I'm sure you don't think you did, but you obviously did. Namely, you said you looked back on fire trucks. I think we should commend the ministry, the secretary of state and all those who have felt this problem in the preparation of this law and regulated the issue of passing the ambulance. And you say in your argument that fire trucks sometimes ride out of obsess. I know you probably don't think so, because maybe you saw a vehicle so you thought you were driving someone out of a hanging. Fire trucks are not driven from the coast, but perhaps something else you should have noticed, that firefighters react on all roads, Croatian roads and county roads without compensation. On highways regulated fire departments through HAC-paid fire departments, but on roads maintained by Croatian roads, on roads maintained by county roads, fire trucks intervene, you all know that in traffic, the assistance needed in traffic accidents without any compensation. No one gives the firemen a kuna for that. You know that firefighters are financed from the funds of local self-government units and something from regional self-government and intervene on these roads without going to a kuna fee. So yours, you were the chief, and you were paying for the fire department, and at the same time you funded the fire department to react to the Croatian roads. That's the topic I'm going to talk about today in my address. But just this reminder to you, I hope you didn't mean it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34612	Replicate reply by Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34613	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague Sanader, I'm glad I brought you up on the line, and I really apologize to you, and I apologize to all the firefighters. And I'm a member of a voluntary fire department for many years, and the first medal I've won in my life was in a fire competition. So I got it wrong, some say so, not my words, but that someone said they're driving out of the obituary, that's for sure. Well, the firemen will go with the official vehicle somewhere, but even now, my opinion when you say so, my opinion, if the firemen are driving the kids to the competition. So why, you should even let them go free, not pay the highway, I mean step away. But I'm glad you said all these things that are true and that go contrary to what I've mispronounced. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34614	Three requests for replicas were part of the presentation of MP Mira Bulj. Representative Petar Skoric asked for the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34615	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Bull. I replicate this part of your exposure that you repeated several times by insinuating that the maintenance of roads and reconstruction of roads at county levels is done exclusively by political key. I think that's why you're clouding the public, using the words "pulism" that are unnecessary because there are plans, there are procedures, there are procedures, there are standards, there are criteria on which road maintenance is conducted regularly. ZUC Split-Dalmatia masters with 1736km of roads, almost a budget goes for regular maintenance and no matter who is in power in which the local community is concerned with maintenance. The same with regard to construction, we can cite a number of examples both today and in recent years and in the past that the County of Split-Dalmatia County Assembly, where the representatives of all policy options are present each year unanimously brings and adopts the plan of ZUC which we are trying to make balanced and where it takes care of the even development of all areas, from the island, coast to our Zagora. And in that sense, no one is politicizing, no one's giving away on the party key, so it's incorrect for you to deceive the public in this way. We can agree on whether there are enough resources and whether existing means are enough to bring all roads to a certain standard. Unfortunately, we still have roads we control that aren't paved, we have 24km. So, you're saying that these 100 miles per party or political key are not paved? There are various criteria that define this, but above all, you are denied the decision of the County Assembly where all the options are, unanimously adopting plans that confirm that there are no obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34616	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34617	My colleague, Skoric, would disagree with you if I had talked about populistism. The fact is that the decentralised funds in both ZUC and other county institutions, institutions, are absolutely assigned by political key. This could be argued through countless examples, not only in ZUC but also in other institutions. Therefore, it seems to you that it is so arranged and well that it should never be changed again. And there has never been a worse situation in the matter of roads or deployments, i.e. the allocation of funds. It was never above mainly for the Dalmatian Zagora and is purely doing everything according to the political key. I could now argue on the Cetin area, in municipalities and cities as it was allocated by political key only where those in the county were in power, certainly more decentralised means, not for sure, but in fact, regardless of the number of inhabitants, regardless of the needs of life and ways that are in the functions of roads and roads. And we will not talk about others when you mention the assembly of the County and Split-Dalmatia County about other activities i.e. institutions in which it works, so the Dalmatian Zagora has become another island. So the entire property area, the Vrgorje end, the cetin region, the Castelan hinterland, sit back and visit, and you'll see what condition this area is in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34618	Josip Boris also requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34619	Thank you very much. I also disagree with you and your claim that these funds will help mountainous and mountainous areas for the purpose of winter maintenance of the roads they manage, which are responsible for showing misunderstanding. Because let's just say that if we wanted to help the Gorski kotar, in the Gorski kotar, there are only two local self-governments of nine and we wouldn't let anyone think about it that way. And they got all the local self-government units exactly in a way that they ran and that they would achieve some support based on their own sources that they have in the budget but also the regulations if you listened well to the secretary of state that will be passed after the second reading and when this law becomes enforceable. So that doesn't stand. Because you often talk about indexation, and that's very different from the development index. The development index is the data, and indexation is the alignment. So we have nothing to coordinate and the development index will change but I don't believe that the number of kilometers of unclassified, public roads in the area of a local self-government unit will enter that development index as a weight that would be primary to determine whether something is developed or undeveloped. We have small municipalities, undeveloped with many miles of roads they manage and we have larger municipalities that have very few and we will not come to a fair solution in that part. So don't link every law to the indexation because it can't work that way, it has exactly what we can use the development index for. That's all I wanted to say, and politics won't deploy, politics has been deployed in the previous term, but not for this, but for something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34620	Representative Miro Bulj, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34621	I don't know why you found that I said in HDZ, I said and in the counties of all, so, my colleague Skoric now replicated me to the Split-Dalmatia County,... SDP,...in your county is the SDP in power working the same way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no difference. Of course, that's why criteria are needed. And the development index is unfair, we all know that, and you will agree in 2014 because it was passed in this Parliament by the Law on Regional Development, the Law. That's something to change. However, it was promised here in parliament, in the previous government, Minister Tolusic also promised to change the index of development, did not change it, so he promised to be in 2017. Now she's the current minister and I hope she changes it and that's why I didn't even vote for the budget. One reason because it is a very important thing for regional development, we have two thirds of Croatia empty. Also, I've praised these 20 million kunas, but it takes a rule of law because it's been given, you'll admit it, don't, don't deceive the public, you'll deceive the public when you say it wasn't assigned by a political key, without the rules that won't be allocated to the political key. Of course you'll be assigned who was in power. So there must be a rulebook, no matter who's in power, on local and regional self-government, and under that rule, funds are allocated. Of course it can't just be the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Regional Development, certain parameters, how many mountainous areas we have, how many mountainous areas we have, how many snow days we have. So not all areas are the same. Of course Gorski Kotar is in a very difficult situation and needs the most help. It's a very important criterion, and it's a very important rule, and everything else is, so the public's delusion and the political key are allotted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34622	Representative Marko Vesligaj also asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34623	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Bulj, I really appreciate your fight here one for the mountainous and mountainous areas and for your end. Since I've analyzed a little of who's in the hill-mounted areas, created a lot of local units from the area where you come from, there's no one really slows it down. I don't think anyone's slowing down at Mount Kotar either. But look, inside this mountain-mounted area... there are about 45 local units in total. They, according to the Institute of Public Finance, had some 23 million in 2014, I speak only for cities now, so 12 cities had about 23 million kuna surpluses. In 2014 it is before those changes. So what I'm saying is, you always put, you always say you need mountain-mounted areas. Look, local units have so many unclassified roads. I come from a town like this myself. We need to take not only the number of kilometers of roads but the state of construction of this municipal road infrastructure in certain local units. Because unclassified roads are a huge problem, nobody really cares about them. We will lower, the state will restore state roads, County County again to its kind during, let's say, it was there before and mentioned that Krapina-Zagorje County but not the problems started in 2013, then Krapina-Zagorje County and its road infrastructure seemed so that it always seemed so fair. So let's not go too far with some things, but the unclassified roads are a huge problem for local units, especially for those with small original incomes, I'm looking at a colleague from Trilj, he's here somewhere with my local unit of original incomes of the population that I think is extremely important. And there really needs to be something done, and this is a good step, a good step to help with the winter service, but we need to look at a bit of a wider picture though.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34624	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34625	Well, I would agree with you especially in this last part of that, so the unclassified roads are a huge burden to local self-government. And of course now that they're becoming more and more imposed, the state is increasingly centralised, that this is an even bigger problem for local self-government in their budgets that I can even maintain. This is about winter services, meaning road maintenance in all winter conditions, and this is a good step and a way to help areas that can't easily maintain it, they don't have enough funds for winter service, let alone for some new investment in some new unclassified roads. And that's why this is good, I repeat the step. As far as indexation itself is concerned, as far as the development index is concerned, it's unfair because they're thrown out by, guilty, the criteria are, the structure of education. And it just means now not to mention what happened. It's not just the right-hand side, it's so the proposal would be made in 2009 by the HDZ government's development index. And it is the least necessary to blame either one of them, but it is unfair, it needs much more justice because there are empty areas, these are areas that are extinct by two thirds of Croatia and of course it is necessary to develop evenly and the other means of local self-government that do not fall into mountainous and mountainous areas, i.e. in assisted areas, not in I and II. the group than they are in III. and other groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34626	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate, and their name will be spoken by MP Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34627	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, respected secretary of state with associates. This proposal amending and supplementing the Roads Act aims to address a series of undefined and problematic situations that have not been identified by previous regulations as well as towards a more rational and fairer management of the entire road infrastructure. It is good that it is simplified and precise to use highways for ambulances, so we have seen different approaches, ways and in this way it will certainly improve and increase the revenues of highways. But it also regulates an extraordinary transport for vehicles of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior. In all, it is positive that we follow new trends and pay greater attention to the protection of pedestrians, the construction of cycling trails, footsteps and practically what is regulated by this law as an integral part of the road, thus making it easier for local communities and road managers to regulate this issue, not to be in some gray zone, so in the past no one took special care of it. It is also positive to abolish the obligation to pay compensation for the right of construction and the right of service. We know that practically everyone who has been in state property has not been paid so far, as has been the introduction of criminal provisions and penalties for non-payment of tolls, which has been a common case so far. I would particularly like to point out from the issues to be addressed by this law, so I welcome the limitations and control of the spending of road resources at a sustainable level which, unfortunately, has not been the case so far. Therefore, in line with the budgetary opportunities to avoid the practice of excessive and often irresponsible borrowing, which has led to the functioning of the entire road and rail sector and to the state of overindebtedness that this government is facing. In addition to the amendment of Article 25, an amendment is proposed, i.e. the addition of paragraph 9 of Article 25, to the words ‘beyond the existing road’. Therefore, public road managers have been brought into an unequal position with the owners and installers who place their installations next to the road hull. All public road installations bring income to owners, and according to the current legal solution only the owner of public roads, which is the Republic of Croatia which is their manager has no rights but has a obligation to pay and move those installations. We find it quite logical that if the road manager reconstructs its road that goes beyond the existing road corridor and if it encounters an installation, then it carries the cost of moving it, while in all other cases the costs should be borne by the owners of the installation. This would encourage all users, as well as road managers to coordinate their investment projects, with projects to maintain the construction and reconstruction of a particular public building. Less digging, less discrepancies, less work, more savings. The above-mentioned financial risk is allocated equally to the owners of the installations and road managers, and better coordination of all infrastructure owners and road managers would be encouraged to jointly plan road construction. Also, with the amendment of Article 21, with the commendation that this law harmonizes the total amount of funds for the financing of public roads from the state budget, in addition to the estimated amount of excise duty for the Croatian highways and Croatian roads, it is necessary to clearly indicate the amount of excise duty for the County Road Administrations which have not been in charge for the past years, but because of the undefined amounts for a number of years have been ignored and thus have been brought into a very difficult situation. I note that the network of county and local roads, so over 20,000 km, accounts for almost 70% of the network of all sorted roads in Croatia and is already at a level, too low funding level with less than half the funding needed. So, so far, the reductions in the maintenance of these roads have already come to us that we have below the legal minimum, and this has led to the neglect and devastation of this valuable public good, as well as the threat of traffic safety on these roads. So, I also note that in the past, all mandatory car registration fees have been increased several times in the period since 2003 since technical examination. While the only fee for roads, for county and local roads, for investment in this type of road infrastructure and for economic development has not changed for all these 14 years, and the current fee for a year using this network of roads for a personal car is less than half an hour's mandatory technical examination, and we know how many fees remain. From 2003 to today, the revenues of county and local roads have been reduced from a billion and 250 million to 920 million kuna, while real costs have increased 50%. Here's what I'm going to mention in 2003, so the budget was a billion and in 2012 billion and 40, and then in 2013. 920 million, then 2015. 810 million kuna, in order for Minister Hajdas Doncic to amend the 2016 rule and further reduce it to 730 million kuna. So, instead of harmonising that amount for the roads to be established, the sustainable system of financing county and local roads that enabled them to need a standard of maintenance of these roads themselves and the necessary level of traffic security is being systematically reduced. That's absolutely unacceptable. For quality roads we are all interested and there should be a principle of equality, so both state roads and local ones, of course, depending on standards. If the state neglects the largest network of roads, so almost 70% will fall to the burden of the poored budgets of the county, cities and municipalities. And for this reason, I also suggested that, in addition to the amounts presented in this proposal for the Law on Croatian Highways and the Croatian Roads, I specifically indicate the amount to the County Road Administrations of $0.10 per litre, which would be allocated to the County Administrations, as was essentially the case until 2013 when Milanovic's Government immediately interrupted. It is therefore the total annual amount of 236 million kunas which have now been retained in the central budget over the past years, thereby further centralising road management. It is therefore proposed to amend this Article 91 in such a way as to keep the amount of 70 lipes for Croatia's roads from these 80 liras of revenue to certain Croatian roads, while 10 limes are determined for ZUC. In this regard, the decision referred to in Article 92 which currently provides for the allocation of that amount to ZUC, but the redistribution of that money left to the Croatian roads which have almost fully maintained that amount for themselves over the past years. We know that the problems and the issue of overindebtedness, however, if we need to solve this issue, then we need to solve it in solidarity, not to solve it in a way that devasts added local roads. This amendment would justly redistribute the compensation of the funds at the expense of the ministry, know exactly how much these funds are, and the ministry would, according to the applicable rules and criteria, set out that amount to those ZUCs most needed, so according to a specific regulation designed by the Ministry. The objective solution is much more transparent, fairer and in line with the declared policy of decentralisation of the state because it would not be decided in any place in the Croatian roads or in Zagreb or from any road manager, but would be decided on the ground in accordance with the decentralised roads approved in the ministry's budget. What should be pointed out in this section is that this excise duty would not be increased but that financial relations would be more clearly defined between the road manager and the relations towards the resolution ministry. In addition to Article 108, colleagues mentioned, and we welcome the assistance of local self-government units in the regular maintenance of municipal roads. In particular, this Article 108 of the Appendix, where a specific part of the financing of the winter service is determined in the demanding mountain and mountain areas. We think it's a great measure, here's 54 I think local communities are covered by it. We'd also love to have a bigger number in Slavonia. This practically relieves the budgets of local communities in hill-mounted areas, and we recommend that this measure be implemented through the counties as it is one of the main activities of road maintenance and thus would practically reduce the additional burden of Croatian roads with something that is not their primary job and thus contribute to a pro-proclaimed policy of decentralisation of finance in the Republic of Croatia. So we're all in favour of decentralisation of the state, so I suggest that, in this example, that this decentralised management be confirmed. So, you said that the ministry would make a clear regulation and criteria, so I suggest that this element should also respect and predict it. So, with all these recommendations on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will support the proposal to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34628	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Škorić, you have made one proposal until the second reading regarding 10 limes to stay with ŽUC, and my proposal is next, let 10 limes remain with Croatian highways and make the extra toll to Croatian citizens twice as cheap. So from the 5th to the 10th month be the price that is, and out of the season be half the price. Let people be stimulated to use highways and do not collect highways, withdraw the decision that should take effect 1.4 on 10% increase in toll in the Republic of Croatia. That's a much better-quality proposal HDZ could have made than this one you're giving. So let the citizens not pay what they have already done since 2004 until 2010, they overpaid the highways several times because they collected a kilometer of highways four times compared to 2002, 2003, when the highway started to be built and when it was supposed to be something that would connect Croatia, and unfortunately turned into one of the biggest robberies in the Republic of Croatia. So give the citizens not to pay that increase that you as HDZ have proposed. That would be a quality proposal until the second reading. And one more thing. Why in a year and two months did the current and former government fail to solve the bridge on Ciovo, Trogir Bridge? Now there's been a problem, it's only now that you've become aware after a year and two months and now it's done by HDZ pressure on the viaduct to change its leadership to keep the Viaduct contract still for the bridge to Ciovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34630	Representative Maras is out of time. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... I'd like to ask you to stay in the time frames and stick to the subject. Is there an answer to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34631	Here, sir, you're practically going on with pulsism, you're trying to reach out and like the citizens, you're trying to declare here a story about the need to lower and so forth, and you've just raised your hand in 2012 to raise that amount by 15% to collect highways. So on this collection, it is that there was no uniform toll price at the levels of all highways, and this is about the harmonisation of the toll so leading to the level of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway where the two state-owned companies level the prices. And this amount is almost a half kuna a mile smaller than the Macelj and Bina Istria roads. So, you keep planting here, and on the other hand you've been hoarding yourself, you've taken away the local communities yourself, here's your minister on several occasions, which I've backed up with numbers of how much reductions have been made to maintain county and local roads, and you've brought the road and rail roads sector to the state of overindebtedness that this government is forced to deal with and look for a way to prevent it from collapsing. So we're just correcting and trying to save the one where you pushed us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34632	Representative Tomislav Liposčak reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34633	Your Honor. I must begin by saying that I welcome this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act, especially the part of which is financed by part of the costs of unclassified roads in the areas of the only local self-government that have the status of mountain and mountain areas from part of the financing and maintenance of public roads and which means being paid out of the state budget at the expense of Croatian roads. In this way, at least part of the problems created by the unfair loss of second category assisted status could be reduced, making many units of local self-government and, in particular, in the mountainous and mountainous areas, significant financial resources. It is most units of local self-government in Gorski Kotar but also wider. In fact, their status as mountain-mounted areas remained only symbolic. In addition, the budgets of these units of local self-government have been reduced by a series of legal solutions to the government of Zoran Milanovic in some places even more than 20%. With this solution, the funds would be guaranteed and would no longer depend on fears at the end of the year on weather forecasts and in fact various initiatives and contracts with ministries or Croatian roads. I will give an example of my city, the town of Ogulin, which in the last 10 years average spends 600 thousand kuna to maintain unclassified roads through winter service. So these figures range from over a million kunas in some stronger snow years. Finally, I welcome this proposal with only one note and, in fact, hope that the announced regulation will adopt criteria that will be fair and will actually satisfy all units of local self-government that will be covered by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34634	Representative Branimir Bunjac, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34635	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Škorić, here's what I've been listening to. You said that the cost of roads should be evenly deployed, that the safety of traffic should be taken care of and that maintenance costs should be taken care of. I'd like to ask you if, in your opinion, transferring traffic to highways would contribute to everything you've been saying right now, would there be less traffic violations, penalties, accidents, would it be less costs for local administration if people were driving on highways? And I don't know, I'm asking you to answer my question, is the highway too expensive for you? You drive as far as I understand from the south of Croatia, how do you find those prices of highways? You have a nice salary of about 20,000 kuna, are they too high or do you think they're okay? And now tell me that some man who receives an average salary in Croatia, who is not already on the highway, will pay 15% more expensive highways? She'll never get paid. Here, let's take a ride in the Zagreb bypass and you'll see 20,000 cars there. Why? Because you don't pay the highway. But when you get down there, when you cross the billing house, do you know how many cars there are? 2, 3. So you pick up highways, you know no one's going to drive at prices like that and then on the other side you're talking about, but we're taking care of the local roads. How do you care? By moving all the cars that go on long trips, moving the trucks to these local roads, you're asking that there's no less accident, and just as the highway increases, they're going to be. You're asking for less costs for local administration, and you're just working on making your expenses even bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34636	Reply to the replica, MP Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34637	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I didn't talk about highway prices, whether they were too expensive, of course they're too expensive and of course it's expensive for citizens to drive on highways. Of course we'd like to have a chance like some other countries and ride free highways. However, we have a situation as it is, we have an over-indebted road sector, so we have a ministry resolutely working on a restructuring plan and which is also looking for a way to get rid of and how to get out of the situation of solving the 7 billion debt created in the past tense. Therefore, without these burdens, it has not been taken into account so far about the sustainable system. So these proposals go after it, we spend as much as we have, we can't be in debt until infinity, we have to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34638	Representative Josip Boris asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34639	Thank you very much. You do not have to worry too much about what the colleagues in the opposition say, SDP or their stories about the political key or the allocations of money available to the Ministry or the Croatian Road, or about this proposal that a fellow living wall is talking about because the fact that they forget what they were and how they were doing and these offer solutions that are simply inconclusive. I'll just read you two headlines about what it looked like in that term when Hejdas-Doncic led the ministry, here are two titles: "Hajdas-Doncic invested half a billion kuna in the Zagorje road". Is anyone against it? So let it be invested, it was necessary, it was not invested for long, and let it be invested, though. Here's another, recently released from Andrasevec to Bedekovčina. So the Krapina mayor needs to call the road "Hajdasian". He honors his minister and says here that we share political money. So much for their hypocrite. And as for the highway, we offer a complete solution, they haven't offered us a complete solution. Their whole solution was then monetization, concessioning without guarantee that roads and highways would collect. Who guaranteed us that the foreign owner who could get to our highways wouldn't collect highways. There were no such guarantees. And lose them in control. I think we are offering a complete solution with the start and end of 2020 with a new system of corporate restructuring in terms and number of employees, but also the restructuring of a financial debt which is a burden especially in these three years, and this should be clearly said that we are not fishing for some kind of political small point for someone to talk about saying you all say something political, you don't know etc. This is some kind of reform right here in the highway control section. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34640	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34641	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I personally believe that we have very good roads, the truth of very expensive roads in construction. How to get out of this is going to be very difficult and we see how it all goes. However, it is now in the past that the bridges of some kind that we started to build are finished or that we could not have started hundreds of miles of hiking trails in places in our cities. I'd look back on that. I think that today we are a modern society where we enter Europe, we have entered Europe and we need to take care of our children, our people to live healthy and to make cycling routes through cities. And that would be one good thing if you could separate something from those funds that we've thrown into some roads that don't lead anywhere, into some bridges that we haven't finished, and this bridge that we currently have a problem with in Trogir. So whatever we start to do, we get into one problem. We know our highways are expensive to maintain. According to some standards, there should be one to maintain in Europe that counts three times. So the rationalization of the people working there should be done and that our citizens should have cheaper transportation, because I come from Slavonia County that it's a very expensive road and now it's already. 107 Kuna is from Županje to Zagreb, and the truck is about 400 kuna, so I ask you with what interests can transport, how much it costs to go to Zagreb and go back. Who can pay them plus fuel and everything else they need? I think that nationalisation should be done completely on the highway and no more going into the projects of those we are unable to complete. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Time's up.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34642	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Lenart has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34643	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Škorić, you have found one interesting thing here that is definitely a problem laying down the installation when the road is reconstructed. The cost arises for those who maintain roads and who own roads. That's definitely one problem that costs the roads. But we have even more of the costs I've already been trying to talk about here, these are foreign trucks that run on our state, county, and unclassified roads that don't pay any toll for that part. There is a special section of Virovitica – Kutina, then there is a part of the Podravska highway. Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer from the Department of Traffic at all. Is this state going to introduce some kind of toll as they have countries in the environment for such vehicles on roads that are not highways? Unfortunately, all this bad management and this debt ultimately suffers from our citizens, citizens who regularly pay their obligations when registering their vehicles that are no longer so small. And in the end, the result of bad management of that money is that citizens are breaking their vehicles. If someone could calculate these damages, it would be a tremendously large one on unclassified roads, in cities and municipalities that really no longer have money because of the poor allocation of funds to fix these roads. A debt of seven billion didn't come yesterday, it was created by more governments. I don't think they painted tunnels, built bridges that don't lead anywhere, and things like that to make that debt much, much smaller today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34644	Bernarda Topolko's representative answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34645	Thank you. You mentioned that the Zucs are financed by road charges. There was a new situation on the ground. At the beginning of about 12 months on the territory of Međimurska, Osijek and Zagreb County, the situation arose that a large car sale across Croatia was being made. I've looked back on the board, but I think we need to repeat the whole story. The Međimurje County had slightly more than 200 returns during the 12 month period, during January slightly more than 300 returns and the trend continues. We know that road compensation is the largest part of the County Road Administration's income. We also know that the Road Compensation Regulations of Articles 6 and 7 define the return of road compensation for the used part of the year. And now there's a problem. Namely, the car houses export cars across the border, the car must be registered. So there's a registration of the vehicle the same day as the registration of the registered vehicle. The County Road Administrations have no income here but only a cost. A dozen papers need to be filled in on the return of a section of road compensation. This should be passed through the hands of two or three employees, it is necessary to pay the bank's compensation for obtaining funds back and that funds that have not yet sat at the expense of the county administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34646	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34647	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, familiar with this case, therefore these problems are present in my county, but here are a number of other issues that appear and where here and through ZUC Croatia we have provided some proposals to the forward ministry so that there are a number of other things and it is under consideration. So we see that already some things in the amendments and additions to this law are recognized, and hopefully these problems will recognize. Therefore, I suggest that until the law is passed that this may be specifically and from your point of view elaborated in order for the ministry to recognise it and find a way to resolve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34648	Representative Ivan Šipić reported on the replica.petrov
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34649	Your Honor. Your colleagues Škorić very short, nice, summed up the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Roads. I think that this law is the most called by the ministry to speak exactly to the local unit leaders, as the colleague said because we are just witnessing with resolution services how many kilometers of individual municipalities and cities, including, of course, institutions where you are in principle, it means how many hundreds of kilometers of these unclassified roads. For example, in the Cetina region you have many examples where national and local roads cross, not only urban and municipal unclassified roads but also county and state roads. In Trill, for example, you have two state roads with several county and hundreds of kilometers of these roads called under the control of local units. For every commendation, this initiative of the ministry is to draw close in one way to local care units, for each commendation are not only to meet local units but also to services operating in the area of local units, such as emergency services, firemen, MUPs, etc. So I'm looking at this law in a way, and I believe that through what you've said, I'm looking at it in a way that the ministry finally wants to make decisions and regulations with local units, and that's why these discussions should also avoid populism. The population in terms of the numbering and the data that are not accurate, but in this first presentation we could hear a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34650	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Skorić, I absolutely agree with you and I support these 10 June because it is a shame what happened in the term of Milanovic's government and then we spoke as representatives here about that reduction from 1.5 billion to 700 million kuna of ZUC was a direct blow to the county, but it was obviously in the trend of wanting to destroy the county or to reduce the number of counties in Croatia because the largest county of Split-Dalmatia with 500 thousand inhabitants with 55 units of local self-government has a budget of 180 million original, basic budget. And now this abolishing of ZUC's funds made it clear to ZUC that he wanted to abolish the county and all that was related to the county. That is why I absolutely support this proposal to go 10 June, but it would also be good to consider small units of local self-government in Dalmatia, municipalities that are unable to finance their unclassified roads. A large number of municipalities, here's an example of Lečevica Municipality is not able to pay public lighting, maybe that's the trend to destroy these small municipalities and make the population go to big cities, from big cities out. Here's why this wouldn't happen. I suggest that three Junes from this budget go to the smallest units of local self-government, the municipalities that are the poorest so that they can arrange for their residents as many unclassified roads as they can because the state of unclassified roads in these small units of local self-government, the smallest, the poorest is the most tragic and virtually incapable of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34652	Thank you. The honourable representative Petar Škorić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34653	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sanader, here we have participated together and discussed over the past years how to reduce this inequality of investment in county and local roads, how to improve the standard because the too low level of investment in local roads in Croatia is unsustainable. So these things need to be changed and I think that both this law and these proposals that we have made are going in this direction and this is what leads to decentralisation of funds and incentives for local communities to improve the situation and the safety and condition of roads in their areas. And ZUC has confirmed themselves to date as the most rational road managers with the lowest management expenditure and with a minimum number of employees per km, which is why they have justified the purpose of their existence and their specialization in managing the classed public county and local roads, which mention once again, account for more than 70% of all roads in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we will surely insist that the situation be corrected and that local and county roads be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34654	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the honourable representative, Marko Vezligaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34655	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal to amend and supplement the Roads Act. And what actually just falls into my eyes when it comes to this law is the very name, the Law of the Roads. So he should then mean that he refers to all roads in Croatia and this through this law is unfortunately not the case because he refers in fact to state roads, refers partly to county roads and at least refers to unclassified roads. And I'm glad that this issue has been raised here today and that much debate is being debated on unclassified roads, perhaps just a little bit Semantic, perhaps it should be called the Law on Public Roads because we are here discussing public roads and we have actually touched the unclassified roads, but a little bit of them are covered by the law through these changes, i.e. the help of mountain-mounted areas. Here in front of SDP's Club of Representatives, I can say that in fact, a good intensity has been achieved, surely, that the question of paying tolls for the use of highways from the vehicle is regulated to the right advantage of the passage. Of course, it is also good that cycling trails, that footsteps become part of a public road because it is actually the conditions that, in today's conditions of increased vehicle traffic of all kinds, should be a standard, a standard that should actually exist anywhere along the state and county roads. And I believe that it's going towards it and not like so far, in fact, that if the state or county road management were going to invest some kind of reconstruction, you had to communicate very well with them in front of local self-government, try to solve... legal relations for building footsteps and cycling routes and only then do so. It is certainly something that is good and good is, of course, an early entry into a visit to the executive property before the very power of the execution solution. Of course, there are also big problems with the construction itself, in the reconstruction of the state roads where we actually have these works on certain stocks, and this must be one step ahead. As far as the excise duties are concerned, I believe that these proposals still lead to some kind of reform before reform to express myself. I believe that Croatian roads have sufficient personnel capacity to deploy these funds in a fair way towards the county road administrations. The criteria, criteria, criteria and criteria, the state of road construction, as much as is invested somewhere. So we have at the state level a variety of applications, so in various areas in which our county roads are really many miles away. What I will look at in particular is, of course, a problem itself to help local self-government units located in mountainous mountainous areas. I, of course, welcome this assistance that goes towards local units which, in good part, do not have the capacity to adequately take care of roads that are under their authority, therefore unclassified roads, means it refers here specifically to Article 108a, which says that part of the costs of the winter service for unclassified roads in the area of units of local self-government that have mountain-mounted areas are financed from works of compensation for the financing of public roads which, in accordance with Article 91(2) of this Law, is paid from the state budget to the Croatian Roads. Therefore, paragraph 2 states that the financing of the winter service referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be governed by contracts concluded by the Croatian roads d.o.o. and units of local self-government that have mountain-mounted status. So this agreement between the roads and... is concluded on a two-year deadline with the previous consent of the competent minister responsible for, in fact, the Minister of Transport, I assume, and the Minister of Regional Development. Of course, mountain-mounted areas are defined as areas of special interest for the Republic of Croatia and they are under special protection to encourage demographic recovery, settlement, the creation of a prerequisite for natural and ine-economic resources to be used better for the economic development of these areas. Therefore, the criteria adopted in the mountainous and mountainous areas themselves so that some units of local self-government can be classified under these areas of course are altitude, slope and vertical disassembly of the terrain and its condition in fact..., climate and other natural characteristics which represent difficult conditions for the work and life of the inhabitants. That's what the law says back in the '90s. And I think that in this part, we should also have a good and quality analysis of what these mountain-mounted areas are in today. Have these mountain-mounted areas, at least some of them progressed? Have they gained stronger fiscal capacity? Did they build a communal infrastructure? What exactly is the state of their finances, a bunch of employees, employees of their city enterprises, so we can get that more real picture? So I repeat once again, help to these local units but I'm asking the question where is the rule book and we heard the answer that it will be obtained through another reading, by which the funds will be allocated to 45 local units located in these areas. And do we actually have local units according to those criteria that I mentioned earlier that also deserve help, here for winter service. It's very easy to analyze climate conditions today and actually all these parameters that I mentioned. We live in the 21st century when we have algorithms, when we have programs that can make it very, very easy to calculate. And I will surely agree with full justice hard to achieve. But then let's not go towards someone being truly directly denied, and some who have also incomes of 5, 6000 kuna... per capita will receive assistance for this same winter service from the state budget, some that generate surpluses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's establish some real criteria after all. There's a lot of talk here today about the development index and let's not do this right now, this part is actually issues and regional policy development. And let's not run that regional policy through the Croatian roads, let's lead it through tax reform that we haven't seen here yet, let's do a state of finance analysis and all that I've said before, and then let's set up these criteria. Once again, I will agree with sure help that those who truly do not have it are numerous local units who deserve it in accordance with these amendments to the laws that are proposed but who are trying to classify others. Until the second reading we have enough time to really consider these things. Because here I will also remind you that local units include other obligations such as taking on game after traffic on the road itself. On the one hand, these local units are constantly burdened, and, unfortunately, through tax reforms, funds are being taken. This is because we have not received concrete information on how these funds will be distributed. In front of the SDP club, I can say that we will be abstentioned on this bill and I believe that by the second reading itself, we will adopt these suggestions and that we will get one more quality proposal, one more transparent proposal that will really help those local units who need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34656	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas. It will be the first to be the honourable representative of Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34657	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague can agree with you and absolutely support this initiative that if there are no other ways, and I certainly believe that there are and I agree that this is primarily about this support to mountainous and mountainous areas that this is the area of regional development and everything you've said. However, it is a little illogical in the reasoning of the law, so it is going to limit funding for construction, maintenance and this will greatly consolidate the state budget so that the state can settle expenditures. It is a transfer of simple and no idea or way to solve these problems we are aware of both Croatian roads and Croatian highways. But I'd also like to say that I can't agree in the part where the previous governments did the same thing in a let's say a little maybe unacceptable way. The County Road Administrations have practically lost more revenue year after year, and so this winter has shown that one unquality maintenance of county, local, and not to mention unclassified roads. You can see the results right now, and it'll only be seen in the sixth month or fifth month. I just think that okay. We can accept these amendments and additions to the law right now. But in the long run, it's certainly not a trend, it can't be a trend. It's not a solution to those problems that are accumulated. And what you said was unclassified roads under the Roads Act are public, but it turns out that only they can be financed which is not acceptable because according to statistical indicators when taken, when used more is in the Republic of Unclassified Roads which have no original income or dedicated revenues from any budget, than it has county, local or highways or state roads. For this reason, it was expected that this bill would at least show good will to single out the minimum percentage and to unclassified roads which unfortunately had not been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34658	Thank you. They'll be answered by the distinguished representative, Marco Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34659	Well, I'll agree with you, Comrade Batinic. Exactly what I mentioned in my debate, which is actually, there are good things that we must welcome in the law itself. But too weak an accent is actually placed on unclassified roads that are actually for all of us, and you are also coming from the local self-government itself the biggest problem. Because if local units have the fiscal capacity they have, and we all know that unfortunately, it is in most parts of Croatia smaller. It is particularly small in the northern part of Croatia because the labour intensive industry is an export-oriented industry. So, it's actually small wages, it's low wages, and it actually generates also low income tax revenues. And I think that the state needs to recognize it, however, because we through, in fact, not us but our entrepreneurs, the businessmen, are very much making a contribution to the state budget through exports, through new employment. Here's Krapina-Zagorje County has been ahead of the unemployment reduction for several years. Many new investments and investments go to the area and the county and to the territory of the entire north of Croatia, and I think that local units must also benefit from some kind of help for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34660	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34661	Thank you very much. I don't know if it's ignorance or intention. Your debate on mountainous and mountainous areas and the board but also here in the assembly. This law has existed since 2001 and has been adopted with the intention of helping as you have read certain areas with specific geographical features, certain altitudes etc. And inside are the exact names and names of all the local self-governments that belong there. The state said it would take special care of the assisted areas of mountain-mounted, island and PPDS, and then adopted the Regional Development Act to take care of both the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and these three laws specifically on these laws and of course that the state is bound to a certain law if it wants to help. The fact is also the truth that the SDP government, HNS, the government of Kukuriku, changed the law in 2014. The Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area left you with only one provision, which is that citizens in the area go to the forest and read berries, forest fruits. Everything else has been abolished by that law of the law has remained the name of the law. And that only saves even those mountain-mounted areas that I can get, that I can get this part called compensation because you promised them when you took 50 million kunas based on changes to the Income Tax Act, when the leaders of the local self-government from the Gorski Kotar came here to Mark's square that you would pay them back 50 million kuna. Here is a little help from that other ministry, not the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure on the Croatian roads, that they have at least a winter service covered and that it is not an expense to them, plus what will go through certain other amendments to the law. So let's discuss it the right way. Don't be surprised and don't keep calling for something to be applied to others if this is not possible in accordance with Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34662	Thank you. The Honorable High Representative will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34663	My colleague, Boric, I'm not surprised you didn't realize what I was talking about. I well know what remains of mountain-mounted areas, I am well aware of the changes in the 2014 law since I was already active in, say, local self-government. I didn't even mention the Gorski Kotar here at all, even in one of the replicas I think I mentioned that I don't think of it at all but that we should simply expand that they have a certain local units big problem with finance and with maintenance of the winter road that is now spoken of in this law and that we need to find a model to help them. That's what I've been talking about all along and that's what I've been talking about here. Why just limit it to mountainous areas? Do not those who are not in the mountain-mounted areas deserve it? Well, we had x examples here and colleagues from your party mentioned themselves local units that don't have the means to pay for a public debate, so how's winter service going to happen if it gets to a harsher winter when you spend I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of kunas you need to clear the roads. That's what I was talking about. If we're already helping a particular area, let's take some criteria and help others, whether it's 5, 10 or 50 local units that might deserve more than the ones that are now going to get the money. But you obviously didn't realize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34664	Thank you. The next is a replica of the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34665	Dear colleague, you mentioned here and now the criteria for the allocation of funds. Did you ask yourself in 2015, for example? when ŽUC in the Zadar County area received zero kuna on behalf of those funds. So it's impossible that everything was so perfect that there was absolutely nothing to invest in that county road management, or that administration has 73 county roads and 182 local roads, and manages a total of 1204km of roads, then it was obviously not a question of whether such county administration needed to maintain roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34666	Thank you. The Honorable High Representative will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34667	Thank you. My colleague Peric, nothing is perfect, of course it wasn't even perfect when the SDP was acting in power. But now I'm going to ask you if it's normal for you to go to Krapina-Zagorian County some 4, 5 years ago when you went to the state roads, the county roads were just a pit, is that normal here 60km from the capital that our roads looked like they hadn't invested in them for decades, so almost nothing, is that normal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34668	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative, Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34669	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vesligaj. You have used your presentation on several occasions the words about the need to establish the use of algorithms, parameters, criteria, all that needs to be laid down to make the road management system better and better. However, you forget that you have had the opportunity to do so, that it has had the opportunity to do so by your authority and that this amendment of the law is on the trail of certain positive changes that you have welcomed yourself through your presentation. And how far did your authority go to testify in that, and that she showed the compensation for the roads as a parafiscal imposition. Therefore, this is a unique case so that dedicated investment in road infrastructure production is therefore necessary for all both life and economic development as a parafiscal imposition. This topic, in the past 2014, in 2015 united all local communities, there is no policy, there is no HDZ, there is no SDP, it is a question of living in local communities especially our rural areas. And right now, this is an attempt to stop the centralization that has experienced a complete culmination at the time of your term of office because the state roads have been significantly increased and the county and local ones have been reduced. You didn't stand up to it at all, here's a colleague who mentioned an example of Zadar County where this support of decentralised funds was reduced to zero. It's reduced to 20 zucchini and in the remaining 16, 17, so only a few of them got those funds and it's not fair. And I'm surprised that you're going to say that you're going to remain abstention in the adoption of this law that solves a lot of things and which is a significant step forward in solving the situation. So it confirms that you care not about... but only about further politicizing. You've had your chance, you've shown what you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34670	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34671	First of all, if I cared about politicizing, then I wouldn't mention in the debate all these positive shifts that were actually made in part, we know how the ministry worked, we started when Minister Sinisa Hajdash-Doncic was too, and then certain laws began to prepare. But look, through each of your discussions you mention 2013 because for you time starts in 2013 because before that everything was perfect, the system worked perfectly, the funds were shared by the county administration transparently, everyone knew how much they were getting. Don't just move Zadar County, every honor, everything that's done down there and that's nice and before we said, we all agreed, anywhere to do well is. But we do know what funds were invested during 2000 in the Zadar County itself and especially in road infrastructure. That's a lot more hornet than the Krapina-Zagorian County is supposed to be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34672	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34673	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vesligaj I would like to respond to your statement that we cannot lead regional policy here through the Law on Roads and Work of the Croatian Roads, but that we must do so through tax reform. I'm sure we should do it through tax reform, but today we're talking about the Road Law. And given the point of desire for decentralisation of the system and for the battle for our counties, every law also concerns regional policies. Normally these locals too. And that's why I think that this law and all the provisions that are passed in both this and a number of other laws concern regional administrations and there is certainly a reason for every law to talk about this problem that bothers us and certainly pursue further decentralisation because the purpose and desire, the goal is to decentralise the system and not to have things like here, will be given something to the Croatian roads and then they will transfer it to the County Road Administrations. Isn't that getting into local politics? Do we not have enough capable people at local level and successful people in the county road administrations to not be given them but that they will get from the Croatian roads tomorrow by not knowing any of their decisions. And that's certainly why we need to talk here about protecting the interests of the county road administrations, try to solve it through this law and certainly strive for this decentralisation of the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34674	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34675	Thank you. Well, I'll agree, I'll agree with you for a good part. Yes, regional policy, not only through tax reform, I agree, but also through some of the other laws. Which is why I mentioned that I believe that Croatian roads should be distributed at the end of the line and how they really were. Well, just for reasons, maybe this is a good idea somewhere for the future that we have on the county road management and that they get a certain amount. For now, unfortunately, still within the county road administrations, I think they're not enough, currently capacitated. I don't know, maybe it's in Split-Dalmatia County, in your county road management better, I don't know how many of you have employees and that can actually be done through Croatian roads. Because again I repeat the state of construction of both the county and local roads that are under management, the county road administration is not equal everywhere. And that is why I still think that we should, that the model should be made across Croatian roads and that it is certainly not some further centralisation. So it's important to lower the funding to that level, that's the key. The key, because I think that money gets regional, that local self-government gets it, that's the most important thing. Whether they get them, that the state has a mechanism to distribute it or get it directly, it may already be a question for discussion. Well, we have the same example here that the state of its assets for this winter road maintenance will land on local units. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34676	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34677	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Vesligaj, you have opened an extremely important topic but before that, it is difficult to actually talk about roads and traffic is difficult not to mention the economy. And I don't really know today if you're trying to see what the economic benefits of actually the state road A1 or "Dalmatine" are, in general, on the economy in the Republic of Croatia, tourism, it's hard to establish. And this funding issue also means these debts that we have due to the loans we've raised to build that road, and it's absolutely certain that even with the increase in excise duties, we're not going to make it because they're huge funds. But the most important thing is for society and the state to develop economically, and then there will be money for roads. And for what it's worth, you mentioned unclassified roads, they're actually funded from three parts, it's a communal fee, renting agricultural land and forest contributions. And then you see how we spin, we're in a vicious circle. Someone got it, now it's a topic, he says we won't save Todorovic, and maybe the roads are saving Todorovic because what about those preferential rents of 300 kuna per hectare. Why is there not enough resources for these roads to be maintained if it is one of the sources of financing and renting agricultural land. And as far as the ZUCs are concerned, I agree that there are certain and capable people there, but I can't help thinking that, here's how it is in my county that these professional people are often so often expressed in politics. And they can't even propose something professional, so there's a policy that decides to make it completely different. So here's what happened, for example, that in the city of Orahovica, the mayor would change the project documentation for the circuit. Look, the mayor's changed. It's all done nicely. In the end, the County Road Authority gave permission. That's the kind of thing that happens with us. And as long as expertise and expertise are not the first priority, there will be no economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34678	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34679	Comrade Sagar, you mentioned the economy at the outset. Of course, it is extremely important, but I believe that this investment in infrastructure is particularly roadside also contributes well to the development of the economy. The correlation here is obvious. I said before what economic results the Krapina-Zagorian County has. I'm not gonna say just because of the investment in road infrastructure, that certainly wouldn't be true. But I'm sure those stairs results are better because these investments in road infrastructure have been made. I'm sure that's how it was in Zadar County, which is the same express tourist boom experienced after large investments in road infrastructure. And I think we all have to work together here to make as much of our national and county roads as possible that are still in pretty bad shape. We've done highways, unfortunately there's a lot and too many tails behind it. But let's not let that happen to us after these investments on the state road. It probably won't because it counts on a lot of EU funds, to get a high-quality network of county, state roads that can then certainly contribute greatly to one economic development, one evenly developing throughout Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34680	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HNS, HSU on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34681	... Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] We have before us an amendment to the Law on the Roads in the first reading and should indeed be commended. I don't think anyone's done it in this assembly yet, that it's a good thing that such a law goes into two readings for the simple reason that this discussion, which is also commendable on committees, and because the proposer, of course, has the opportunity to put some of the proposals he hears through the discussion into the draft law in the second reading. The same is true of the law that has caused us to be in this assembly. When it comes to infrastructure, all infrastructure-related laws are extremely important. There is no one sitting in this assembly regardless of the right or left who is not in favour of sustainable development. And we all are very often filled with the mouth of sustainable development, and sustainable development means that the infrastructure in Croatia should be equally quality, and we are aware that it is not. Namely, a child who goes to Zagreb to school or a child who goes to Velika Trnovititica has about the same cell phone. And here it is when it comes to sustainable development, the same status. But when it comes to other things, that is not the case. But let's concentrate on the subject of these amendments on the addition of the law and I'll talk about three topics. Article 2 defines what parts of the road are, there was no opportunity to say about it, so I use this opportunity and there as parts of the road are added nogost and added cycling trails. When spring comes and when the weather comes, all those who walk in the city of Zagreb have the opportunity to see what cycling trails mean. Once upon a time when I was studying, then it was special, we had a special college that was related to traffic and then we learned two basic divisions, which is that when it comes to the road there is a sidewalk on which pedestrians go and there is a stake on which vehicles go and whether they are motor vehicles or they are cyclists. In Zagreb, we have an example that this is not the case. And in some other cities we have examples that it isn't, but let's take an example of the town of Koprivnica which has a high-quality cycling trail where cycling paths don't bond with pedestrians. Therefore, it is extremely important that the provisions of Article 2 define what is. It would be just as good to continue to define the difference through some breaking provisions for the simple reason that when cyclists are on the hiking track they are also a danger to pedestrians, pedestrians for cyclists, cyclists for pedestrians. And what in planning the basis of this Law on Roads is for those who plan a road in a particular area, those who maintain these roads should really read it and define in accordance with the provisions of this law what and how to do so that we are not really at risk of one or the other, i.e. the subject is the basic rules of the profession to interfere with it. These cycling routes have not caused much debate so far, but indeed this law defines exactly what parts of the road are. It's about cycling paths, but it's the same thing to take care of. Then another topic I would like to say about is the subject of amending the law regarding expropriation and the right to build and serve. I think it's good and it's good that there's been an amendment to the law where there's already some work to be done on the basis of the extradition procedure. However, we also have some good practices. That's what we have, let's do it and forget about it later. I use every chance to say the following. We have built a highway, a highway that can be proud of us and really when it comes to highways then highways in Croatia are shown as in its quality and in its safety as better in Europe but we still have some places where following service facilities where it has also started but the procedures are not finished. And we can have the tenth one day that the gentlemen who are still there in the garter come in, close by following a service facility and say from tomorrow we use it because this land is still ours. So it's really good, if we want to be quick to be quick, that we can start with some activities, but we need to make sure that we're done because it's proven that we haven't finished some things by now and no matter what we do with the highways or it's not a big problem. These highways have not yet been recorded in the cadastre, yet have not been recorded in the garnery because the procedures have not been completed. They have a building and use permit, but when you come to the books of the catastra or the garland you still see the state that was therefore the existing state. Similarly, there is a provision between us of this amendment and of Article 5, where we are in line with certain EU attitudes and directives where, when it comes to the right of construction and service and units of local and regional self-government, in terms of competition, they will be in a level playing field in terms of payment with all others. I suppose this has been taken into account in the budgets because it will be an additional expenditure on the budget because so far it has not been so. This is what we are warned of because when the provision of the law is that the unit of local self-government, i.e. companies owned by them, is then considered state support and enters into government debt. This now in law has been amended and I suppose the basis of this will be to make sure that the budgets according to this change is going to be one other item in the budget. And the theme that we're all talking about is unclassified roads. There is one fact, which is that Croatia has a terrible disproportionateity when it comes to roads. We have high-quality highways, which are good, which are maintained regularly. When we were building highways then the condition was to make a parallel road network so that whoever didn't want to take the highways could come to that parallel road network and we did it. And that road network is also in a decent state, but we come up with what caused the resistance and, of course, caused the dispute and the debate is unclassified roads. Unclassified roads have a unit of local self-government that measures this in dozens of kilometers, and there are unclassified roads that the local self-government unit measures in hundreds of kilometers. These unclassified roads as well as a series of infrastructures we have problems with a number of infrastructures they are still when you are looking at in terms of their recording in the cadastre and grants, they are still in the catastro and grants you have an old state they are not registered. When it was also wanted to apply to some of the EU's elements and funds, then it was a terrible problem because they do not even have building permits, they are registered in a different way, but they need to be maintained. They should be maintained regardless of here, of course the debate was related to maintenance during the winter period, but they should be maintained throughout the year. And I'm going back to that first thought, which is about sustainable development. You know, behind that unclassified road there are those on them, there are, of course, what we're all sensitive about is that our children have the same conditions no matter where they live, and these children need to get to their schools and on those unclassified roads. We really need to tell the truth that it's a huge burden for local self-government units even those units of local self-government that are in one of the upper classes, you know that in category 1 to 5, even some of them spend quite a bit of money when it's just said to pave the holes they have, or to keep them in the state they're in. And when it comes to mountain-mounted areas and maintenance during winter, then that's where I think we should define some elements. The secretary of state when he answered said there would be a rulebook, it would be a good time to know that rule. It would be good to see what neighbouring countries are doing, let's say Austria when it comes to unclassified roads, it doesn't clean them to black, so to see asphalt or to see what we call a white road. It cleans them up to the level so they can maintain traffic. So, first of all, we have to decide to what level the unclassified road will be cleaned up because of that, of course, it means investment, we have to decide what altitude it is, or how many winter days it is, or how many centimeters of snow, so there's a series, a series of elements that really need to be defined. And I absolutely think that this huge disproportionate that's between the quality of unclassified roads and the quality that we have highways that it's an investment that we need to have in the future. When it comes to some kind of a situation, we are always full of the mouths of EU funds, and we use it both when and when it is not necessary, but when it comes to it and when you see the number of people we have and by miles of highways that we have and by miles of other state roads that we are in excellent condition, but we have this problem of unsettled roads and we need to face this problem. And what you should not only do when it comes to clearing roads in hill-mounted areas there is really the first decision to clean up. So if one Austria can't afford to clean up to the black, so until then, the question is whether Croatia should have the opportunity to afford it, but what we need to take care of we need to take care of maintenance of all unclassified roads, see where that country needs help, because I am absolutely sure that we need help because, as you well know, we have absolutely great disproportionateness. And finally, what I'm going to do is, if we all swear to sustainable development, and there's no one here who wouldn't hurt to have an end from which he comes or part of his electoral unit that he represents that he doesn't have conditions like the ones in the best situation, then we need to take care of that. And we need to keep an eye on these laws. So infrastructure is something to be, it's those projects that are so-called. Invisible by the fact that the road is also visible and the railway but you have a series of infrastructures, plumbing, sewers, electricity networks that are invisible. And everyone likes to leave behind traces of visibility to stay behind, I don't know, our mayor has a fetish on fountains, so they can stay fountains, so they can stay fountains, someone else has a fetish on something else. But what is the role of all and this is to invest in this invisible infrastructure because it is the only reason we can take a step further and Croatia, in terms of sustainable development, indeed has the opportunity to show what it is and not just to talk about sustainable development without saying what it is and what it should be. Therefore, the HNS Club, HSU will support this amendment and the addition of the law in the first reading. It would certainly be good when it comes to what caused the opposition, which is financing during the winter period of unclassified roads, that perhaps on boards or here, you can give us a little insight into what that rule would look like, because the decision will be that it will be incomparably better. And I'm one of those who advocates, and I think it's good to pass the law, let it go into life, and we shouldn't have any delay if we see that something doesn't work, admit it doesn't work, and we have to change that. And so it's good to have this bill and of course it's good to go in 2 readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34682	Thank you. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first to be the distinguished representative of Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34683	The Honored Chairman, dear fellow MPs, my replica goes to this point, you mentioned in your presentation of Koprivnica as a good example of building cycling trails. So I would tell you that Koprivnica may be a good example of having a lot of built cycling trails but the quality of these cycling trails and their justification in some kind of traffic sense is very questionable. So a good part of those cycling trails was built past the regulations. And while you're talking about fetishes in Zagreb, say, that they're the fountain mayor's fetish, then I guess it's a fetish of the Mayor of Koprivnica of the current performer of duty and those former ones were cycling trails. They were made from one foot wide to three meters wide, so the yellow line retreated, so it's said this is for pedestrians now, this is for cyclists. And mostly there are all kinds of cycling trails in Koprivnica. And I agree that it's good to have them, but it's not good that at the same time we have 60 unskilled streets in Koprivnica, where there's also a third track of hiking bikes and at the same time citizens from one street are protesting on the main town square because there are no asphalts in their street, there are no other municipal infrastructures so that Koprivnica is certainly not a good example of how to invest public money in cycling trails and at the same time you said that children themselves are going in mud, by water, by holes to school. And when you talk about cleaning up to black, it's in Koprivnica in the good part of the street, in one part of the street impossible, it can only be cleaned up to yellow, or mud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34684	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34685	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. We met in the campaign in Koprivnica because you and I were in the election unit. I was lucky and I had the opportunity to ride bikes in Koprivnica and I know it's possible there. Try doing it in the city of Zagreb. The center of Zagreb, I pass every day because there I live, Martic Street, the sidewalk is divided by half. Half the sidewalks go on foot and half the sidewalks go on bikes. And now, everything would have been fine if there hadn't been a platform built for one facade, so then we have to decide whether the pedestrians are going or the cyclists are going. So I can really agree with you and I need to strive and be better. But you can strive and be better when you have something. You in Koprivnica really have cycling paths, they are defined by a special rule, you know where the cyclist goes, where he walks. We don't have that kind of luck in Zagreb. We often don't know where a cyclist goes and where he walks. And even where it's defined for cyclists, we've had opportunities and seen even in some newspapers, you know you have a column and then you have a bike path going around it one round, I haven't seen a bike that can go there and it's not so edged, it's on Klaic's street, so when you go down the street you have a pillar of public lighting and then the bike path goes into such a semi-circular circle around that pillar of public lighting. You know me, my sons were riding a bike and one had a torn arm and the other had two, one leg, one arm. They were riding a bicycle in Zagreb and they got hurt and I know what that means. And I think we really need to take care of that in the future. And I purposely used this law to talk about cycling paths because we all advocate bicycle riding and everything but what is our obligation and to ensure that they are safely driven and cyclists but also to be safe pedestrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34686	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34687	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, I have reported for an individual debate, so I will talk there about the dualism of concessionaries on state roads and county roads in local administrations. But since you are concerned with the problem of legalisation and facilities along the state roads within the area of the local administration, I would like to say something that I am in some way sorry that in the synergy of yours and Minister Hajdaš Doncic, when the amendment of the law has been passed, has not changed. You know, the state roads in the local community road corridor is 25 meters from the border land of the local road permit, which means 25 meters from one side, and the traffic lane, the nogostop, the other traffic lane, and then the nogostop, and again 25 meters. A gro of state and county roads in populated areas are in some way a space for construction. That corridor, I'm interested in your opinion, whether it's built roads that need to be reduced so there's no problem. Because even in maintenance, I said an individual debate, so I'll say it, 25 meters of space. If more of the country’s private particles in such corridors remain unsettled, no one takes special care of them. Tourists in our area get the impression that this is very messy, unsustained, and the local community will say this through dualism about the concession on these roads. There's no jurisdiction for that space. The private owner of that particle won't maintain it because there's no interest in keeping it, because we don't use it because it's in the corridor. What do you think of the proposal to reduce this corridor on a built road to as reasonable a measure as possible, not 25 metres from the edge of a country with a location permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34688	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34689	Thank you very much. Yes, it is. Thank you very much. So, fellow Boban, you've touched a few things here, and I'll do it in a row. First is planning road corridors. When spatial plans define road corridors, then they are defined in much greater width for the simple reason that the possibility is given, so it is the corridor, then you are given the possibility that when someone is planning a road, that this road may have some kind of road, maybe it has to be in which part of the curve. And the main part of the spatial plans has one provision that says: “After the construction of the road and after the use of the road, the land left over from the corridor gets the purpose that neighboring land has. This means, if family construction is possible along that road, on the one hand and on the other hand, to extend it to the real roadland. I think you understand what I'm talking about, and it makes absolutely sense, and it doesn't need to change the spatial plans. And that's how it should be, and it should be taken care of. The fact is, when colleagues issue permits and they went through all sorts of things to very rarely apply that provision. But read a little bit, that provision exists. It's the only one that's too big. So you don't need to change the spatial plan and spend money every time, especially so, because the corridors have to be bigger, because you have to... The possibility of technical consent is sometimes necessary for some reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to legalization. Recently there was a Law on Legalization here in the debate at the Parliament in the first reading. That's when I said something I'm gonna do again and now. If I had this mind that I had now, when we were writing the law, I would really argue that for all those objects that have been completed, which are defined, no matter what the plan is left with that wider corridor, but it's defined and built it can be legalized. It was also an opportunity that I warned in a public debate on this, or debate in the Assembly, on this article 6 to think about it a little bit and to give the possibility to legalise these houses. Because we know that no one will tear them down, and they will remain undefined and, of course, remain a problem first and foremost where they are in the municipalities where they are built.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34690	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. You picked it up. You didn't? All right. The next is Honorable representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34691	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Dark yes, the rulebook is necessary and it would be good if we could in some way suggest what and how, but here we use the debate. Namely, no one would object to helping mountainous and mountainous areas in this way. However, what with the environments, with units that lost that status and with the loss of mountain-mounted status, their budgets have been reduced locally by 30 to 40,45%. And also, we are witnessing climate change. They are no longer winter and snow height in the winter months of Lika, the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted mountain-mounted Kotar has no difference compared to northern Croatia. It depends on what winter it is. However, what is the fact that from year to year more and more in the north in the continent we have icy rains, freezing even fogs in contact with a road that is completely clean, cleaned so that they are frequenting and pouring rice, salt, etc. to train these roads. Furthermore, the field configuration itself, the altitude should not always be a criterion and an exclusive criterion. You have Croatian Zagorje, north of Croatia, Prigorje where hilly terrains are practically, slopes of road on unclassified roads it is not a plain. So, I think it should be far more quality if it goes in such a way and that the regulation should not rule out other units of local self-government to see if it's a development index, whether it's income per capita in Croatian roads anyway to be included in those environments, even with minimal resources to support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34692	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34693	Thank you very much. Fellow Batinić, indeed this is a century in which we will have to through a series of laws and through active action define the problem that will result from climate change. Climate change is a fact that we can't escape no matter how much I want to escape, no matter what anyone claims. That's the facts. When you look at what is in Croatia, what meteorologists predict, they predict that in 2050 temperatures in Croatia will be on average at sea in the summer months, so by the sea they will descend, and on land they will rise and there will be some changes. However, regardless of all of this, I can agree with you and define the criteria and conditions to which we are cleaning, or what roads have to clean up, and after defining the way in which individual units of local self-government will be assisted from the state level, because we can all agree. So we neither have the territory of units of local self-government the same or are located in the same areas of different. Croatia is divided climateally into continental and Mediterranean, it is different in Mediterranean Croatia, it is different in continental even a series of design regulations defined different conditions of value in continental Croatia, different conditions in Mediterranean Croatia, and we must be aware of that and therefore also behave when it comes to the subject of unclassified roads and how to help local self-government units manage the best and better quality truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34694	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. I wanted to come forward with two things, the first one that refers to the unclassified roads that you have determined about how and how the unit of local self-government can maintain unclassified roads and you mentioned yourself that you planned in your own time to move some of the funds from European funds. But the fact is that you are also the administration that an application would be necessary to resolve the pre-condition of property law so that you can apply these funds later to get and maintain, arrange and operate the same unclassified roads. So in that sense, you know that, 15 days ago, we adopted amendments and additions to the Construction Act that will facilitate units of local self-government to solve the documentation as soon as possible so that they can systematically approach the construction or arrangement of these unclassified roads. This is, in my opinion, a good project proposed by the Government to be allowed through changes to the Construction Act, and what is least important is through amendments to the Law on Immunity and Real Estate Assessment, where these overall procedures will be speeded up through... decisions on enforcement. And the second thing, I can agree with you that this is the solution to Article 86(2) and Article 5 of this Act to amend and supplement the Road Law will create certain financial difficulties for local self-government units when municipal companies are owned by public road infrastructure investors. However, given the equality of access to the market it was easy to expect, and in any case it will have to be partly burdened by the budget of units of local self-government but it is something that we have taken over by joining the EU where they are in an unequal position then those investors who are not owned by local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34696	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34697	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, there are two topics. One topic is these funds that will have to be provided by local self-government units. Principleally, I don't think it's bad, not that it's going to have to provide funds, it's going to be a mess, but I think it's good that in a public competition they're in the same position because they're going to make them better and they need to be better, they need to be cheaper, they need to be more operational, and they actually don't wet them, but we make them feel better about these utility companies and they know that they go to the market and that they can apply other things to the market. And that may be a burden in the beginning, but in the future, if they really can be a relief because then municipalities and cities will be able to come forward by the foundation of their utility companies, perhaps somewhere else, or another municipality that they don't have. I see it as an improvement and I think that's the way it should be. At the beginning, it'll be a burden, but let's get used to it, that's what everybody does, so let's do it ourselves. And as far as unclassified roads are concerned, I'm up for something else and it's worth sitting down and thinking about, it's not easy but to do. It seems to me that as we were matured for the Law on Legalisation of Buildings, we are also matured for the Law on Legalisation of Infrastructure. So through one law on legalisation of infrastructure, unclassified roads could be legalized, both the ground floor and underground infrastructure we have. You should think about it and I really spent a lot of time on it, I think it's a quality time spent because you know in principle that the great lawless builders were both state and municipality and cities over time. Why was it like that? I'm not going into the genealogy of things. But one law that could legalize unclassified roads that would give them legal status and enroll in the cadastre and grantovnica as well, we have a series of infrastructures, we have sewers, we have everything we think would make life easier for both municipalities and cities, and also for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34698	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the HDS, HSLS, HDSSB, in the name of which they will speak the distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In principle, listening to discussions about these amendments to the law, I think we agree with its amendments and that we all know in principle what the problems are. I'm just not sure if we're ready to change something in that direction and if we're brave enough to go change something for the better, not that we're just declarative here talking about how something needs to be changed for the better. In this debate I will base myself on article 108 and its changes, somehow he is my most interesting part, with the beginning that our club will support these changes of the law in the first reading and you are not controversial. It has certain improvements, but I think improvements should be where and where stronger and larger and especially related to Article 108. This debate today is going towards a balanced development of local roads, county roads, unclassified roads all the time. Local self-government units are mentioned and the ZUCs are mentioned. There were data presented here by the positions that are correct. So the huge damage was done in 2013. At the time Minister Hajdas-Doncic destroyed Croatia's local, regional self-government by taking and taking huge amounts of money, they were right here in the figure presented to you in previous discussions. And I will say that, let's just say, the county administration of Križevci, which has been operating in the area of Koprivnica and Križevci County since 2013, has lost 32 million kuna here with a letter and a number compared to those rules and criteria that have been since 2013. And today we have a situation that we can definitely not even maintain roads let alone modernise roads. If we add to this the fact that local and county roads are in the nature of the state road, that these roads can't run for rural development measures either, that they can't practically run for European projects, then we come up with a dangerous problem with these roads. And it's said here that it's generally easier to build something than to maintain it and it's true. This change, which through the state budget and the Croatian Roads programme put 20 million kunas for winter service and assistance to mountain and mountain areas is certainly good and it is welcome. But in my opinion and the club's opinion, that's not enough. And today, definitely if we don't put such a position on all local self-governments, if we don't bring clear criteria in this section regarding what the development of transport infrastructure is, then we're going to get into a very awkward situation that in a few years there won't be roads, but it's going to be yellow as my colleague Felak used to say instead of black in the winter. Because we already have a situation today that we're getting weed across the road, that our roads are just disappearing and that nothing's happening. What can I say, and so could many mayors and mayors in the Republic of Croatia, their fellow citizens in the villages of Great and Small Sesvete, Pobrđen, Vujici and others, what can I say to them why they do not have the basic conditions of life in the 21st century, why do they have no asphalt? And they don't. And by the way it is now the situation won't even have it, it won't have it. We can't run either, the county administration doesn't have any money, the funds are cut. So these people are doomed to life on dusty roads. And such roads have in Koprivničko-križevacka, there are also in Bjelovarsko-Biogorska, probably in Zagreb County, there are in many other counties in Croatia. So, I think it's time for one real analysis of the situation on the ground, to look at what roads are, that still our settlements and villages don't have asphalt and see that in the budget for the next year or over the next 3 years, state resources are being found, as additional means to move towards modernising these roads and allow people to live normal lives. There's one more thing that burns me personally and it's that tax on road motor vehicles. He's being paid into county budgets, he has no purpose, he's a free tax. I don't know, maybe it's time in this review, an analysis of the situation from both the national level and the county level to see that part of that tax may also be used for this enhanced modernisation of roads and simply to force the provision that this must be done in some percentage for the maintenance and construction of new roads in order to enable both funding and funding on that side and on that basis. This was about hiking and cycling trails. This amendment to the law that puts walking and cycling paths in the corridor of the road is absolutely welcome. Because at a local level when you have to renovate or build a road, then you crash all sides with everyone. From those who are underground to those with whom you should cooperate. Then invent various agreements how to co-finance what part, so who will co-finance who will pay. I think that provision is good and that it should go in this direction to simply develop road infrastructure not only to be good to drive those drivers who drive but also to strengthen traffic safety and other participants and pedestrians and cyclists. And finally, if we want even development and we all swear to it, so no money, no extra money, not just for mountain-mounted areas, which is what I need for, but for the rest of Croatia. You just need to secure those funds. If we don't, we're still going to have an unbalanced development, we're going to have further problems, we're going to have more and more problems, and more and more areas are going to be lagging behind. In the end, we're going to need three times as much money to get rid of it as we can now keep a lot less money at some normal level. Often when you talk about these various excise duties, we all like to say better, we're for the elimination of all excise duties. I'm not sure that's always good. That one time sounds very nice, populist. Great! Everyone's up for it. No one's gonna be against it, and then tomorrow when there's nothing to build with, when you break your car or someone falls off a bike on a broken path, then who's to blame. Of course, it's mostly the local self-government's fault, most of it's the fault of those who are often called sheriffs here. It's a good guy, not I keep saying it, and on the other hand, they're bandits. It's the sheriff who makes the order, right? It's all their fault, they need to work it out. So, dear secretary of state with these suggestions on behalf of our club, I ask very much to consider this article again 108 to the second reading, to record the situation on the ground, to really look at it, to sum up how many people we still have who don't live on asphalt roads, who are being dusted in front of houses, who are daily watering the road so that they can open a window at all and see what kind of effort it takes, how do we divide them to solve that question over the next three years, to enable people to live a decent man's life. It's our mission, and that's our goal. It's not good that we're very divided, that we're so very unbalanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34700	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. He's the first to have a respected representative of Mladen Madero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34701	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. I welcome clearly every mile of built road in the Republic of Croatia, but I do not think there was even investment in the Republic of Croatia. As far as building a road direct in Podravina. I believe that the road load in Podravina, directly Koprivnica – Virovitica is too large and unfortunately nothing has been invested in it. In his presentation, he told his colleague Hrg about the even availability of funds. Yes, all this is well stated by my colleague Hrg, and at the same time in our county, the categorization of the roads, I don't know my colleague Hrg, I speak in our county. I don't know, maybe in other counties it's better done. I don't think it's well done, because as much as I have the information that your city has categorized, most of the roads have fallen under the county administration of the road, which I think is bad policymaking towards small units of local self-government. So the town of Krizhevci took advantage of that possibility with this reduction. Clearly, the reduced profits were actually made by the county road administrations. At the same time as the even distribution of funds and development you are also the road Zagreb – Križevci is finished, it is over. And where is it evenly to Koprivnica, Djurjevac? So that part of the Podravina will be cut off again as far as it's concerned. And I think, which is your same push to continue construction, and we know that there is no project to continue the road Križevci – Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34702	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34703	Thank you very much. I don't know about the categorization of fellow Hungarians, she was done there when the ZUC was founded and then we had a situation to say the town of Križevci invested one of its two budgets in the modernization of roads, and then over the night all those roads were retegrated into county, and then it turned out that we had the most modernized roads at the county level, and nobody said that we were modernizing it, so someone just over the night of the feather movement wrote it nicely there. And now we've been looking for some roads to go back and these unfalsified, shorts, stones so they can apply to EU programmes, or rural development. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we're not going to make it because that development index is a little higher in that part, so we're going to have problems here, so we're going to have to deal with it ourselves. As far as the fast road goes, I'm really happy and proud that we've managed to win that part. A confident dream that in this period will be found in front of us a way to continue the construction of this ipsilon both towards Bjelovar and towards Koprivnica. We do things and lobbying every day and we send a request to make it easier for traffic at the moment. But I remind you at a time when the Kukuriku government wanted to stop the works for which I have evidence written, then the Chrysevs stayed alone in that struggle to continue building the road. We didn't have support on the other side, and we asked for support from all sides. Maybe that was the time to step up that support a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34704	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34705	I'd like to agree with you that the tribune strategic planning of all roads is in order. So you've said in a vivid way, that you should first look at where people are getting pissed in front of their houses so that they can't literally, that they can't open windows. But the key problem is this, it means decentralisation. As long as the decentralisation is not carried out, as long as it goes towards, exclusively towards the county in the way everything is centralized, more and more will exist that local self-government simply will not have any control tools, i.e. any effective action on roads, but mostly on roads. And because it's centralized, we have a problem that we're not going to tribute or pave the road anymore because you won't have anyone to asphalt for. So you've guessed, decentralisation is the key to the problem regardless of the mountain-mounted areas, supported or other local self-government, the main problem is decentralisation clearly by the criteria and rules. Everything else goes into political transfer of funds by political or personal criteria as which minister, as the government wishes. So the basic prerequisite for everything you've been saying is strategic thinking from local self-government, regional self-government to state, to the ministry to see exactly all the necessary roads... an example is what is needed in Dalmatia, what is in your county and in certain parts of the county, but as long as there is no decentralisation local self-government is in the problem exclusively which can't be planned without the goodwill of the higher institutions. And now if that mayor is in conflict, that is. is not in the same political option as in the county or state it is a huge problem, these are facts and it is easy to measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34706	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34707	Col. Bulj absolutely correct, therefore decentralisation and that fiscal in the first part is something without which there is no development and preservation of life in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we all talk about in the same declaration, but when we make laws, they go in the opposite direction. For example, the Law on Roads and Road Financing of Minister Hajdas Doncic, we can actually very, very nicely prove a rough centralisation because then the minister took ZUCs 400 million kunas, and then divided those 400 million kunas by a political resemblance without regulations and criteria. And I have an answer to the parliamentary question where I was answered that there were no regulations, but the arbitrary minister set it up, so I have paper, black on white. Absolutely correct. So my position is always like this, every man in the Republic needs to create minimum conditions that he can live where he wants to live. And if they don't start decentralisation, they'll all group into smaller centres and remain a desolated country. That's why I also said in the statement that we have to record the situation, that we have to see what other villages we still have without roads and then see how to solve it in three years. Create a program that we will all come up with together where everyone will plant their backs and local self-government and regional and state and simply solve this issue. That's why I was talking about that part of taxes on road motor vehicles, I think that part of that tax should be invested in modernising, primarily modernising roads in areas where it hasn't been made yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34708	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Mihotic with his associates. Well, here's a colleague of the Hrg, you've touched the unclassified roads, you've touched this very part of the topic you've been talking about because you're also head of local self-government, and you know it from everything that's missing in being a local self-government. So I, like the long-standing mayor, would first and foremost thank the Croatian roads for understanding exactly and helping in cities, and especially municipalities where the state road passes through certain places, where they have recognized that through this type of road that is owned by local self-government they are helping local self-government to solve at the same time, but that even more as you said we should solve this relationship between the local self-government of Croatian roads, that along with the state road passing through certain areas, there is even more to solve the issue of nogostast or the safety of citizens because we are witnessing that on certain roads not only in Podravina we have a lot of examples in my Požega-Slavonia County that the footsteps are a key thing to address road safety. As a man who was also mayor and representative of the Croatian Parliament, I have really understood and Croatian roads have been very much in Požeško-Slavonski County in the town of Pleternica, where at the request of the mayor and mayor of the city, they solved these problems. And I think that they need to work more on that security in the future, and I'm sure you'll recognize it and you've already recognized it, so thank you again for everything and for what you've done especially for people in the continental part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34710	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34711	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucic, we understand each other, of course. Yeah, what you said is exactly what I'm saying, that one co-operation from local level, regional to national. Whether it's the Croatian roads or the ministry, it's less important now. I, too, have been talking intensively to Croatian roads lately in the area of my town, in the direction of making walking paths, if possible cycling paths, but at least on foot to allow safer traffic through the settlements for both drivers and pedestrians, to make life easier for people. And some of these programs are basically running, and in some ways the changes to this law are going in that direction. And interestingly, you also thanked the Croatian roads and the Ministry about the town of Pleternica and the road construction along the state road that was built. Here is a moment ago in a recent response and a little previous replica mentions the fast road Cugovec-Kryzovci. I find it fascinating and interesting as we project it in one wrong way. My colleague Mader used to say that there was a Cross, yes, but every foot of it to the Crosses is one foot closer to anyone who gets to it. So everyone who goes there is a meter closer, a meter faster because simply that road isn't just for one city, it's intended for all. But in any case, on the trail of what you said, so I absolutely think that with all this, what needs to be solved right now is what hasn't been done in villages that have no asphalt yet, that the next phase, the next step, is the absolute turn of the pedestrian bike paths along the state roads. Especially I have a lot of state roads through the city and I have very, very few walking paths through them, that's exactly what we're working on, but there must be cooperation and local self-government so Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34712	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34713	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you spoke here about the ZUCs and everything that happened in the previous term, meaning the time of the SDP, and indeed something has been done that has not been practiced by then. Indeed, the minister at the time took a large part of the money and deployed it as he wanted probably for the reason that the SDP has I think 2 or 3 counties where it is in power and they were instructed then and, of course, to punish all others who were not SDP and HNS. However, when we look at a little bit, I come from the Primorje-Gorski County, we have the County Road Authority and it's from '98. By 2016, around a billion and 390 million kunas of various incomes from which they can finance the maintenance of extraordinary, regular and some kind of investment. They run 890km of roads, local, county, so a mile or so somewhere around 2 million kuna, a million and 700 thousand kuna, so let's put 2 million kunas, let's invest in every mile, would that look different than it looks today? Probably would. And we're all fighting here that there's no political arbitration here at the state level. But what about when we get down to the mayor's level? They're also political arbitration. Ask the environments in which members do not know the opposite parties at some local levels they have received from the County Road Administrations. Here I come from Rab, both local self-government members are HDZ members, mayors and mayors. We haven't seen a county road rebuild since '98. A year. What do we get? Pre-season maintenance. It comes a truck of asphalt, a little bit by some, they figure out where they're going to scratch it a little bit and spend the money without any greater benefit for anything. And if they don't do anything, it'll be the same again. We don't have one wholeness of solving the problem or the shares, but of choice, we scratch it out a little bit, and it's called maintenance. And what did we get? Looks like our roads are broken pants, right, full of pockets... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34714	The esteemed representative of Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34715	Thank you very much. Yes, fellow Boric, you're absolutely right. So we've come into a situation that we've created some levels of governance that, in principle, work less and less together from day to day. And that's only for one reason, in my opinion. Because there is no clear strategy, no clear plan of the program, clear rules of the game. We play some games as someone comes dressed, puts on some tennis shoes, someone swims, someone comes in a basketball uniform, someone with a basketball, someone with a football, and that's how we play it. And that's why we have a problem. We don't see things rationally and realistically. And complete. And I repeat, what I said in the debate. Local and county roads are owned by the Republic of Croatia. So they're state property at the ZUC administration. The intensity at the time of the government's coukuriku was heading towards the destruction of the ZUCs and practically the abolition of the ZUCs. And I'm not saying that it might not be a good way, but not the way it went. First I don't give you, I break up all the oxygen pipes and then I say you can't breathe anymore. And then I give someone else so little on the side. And if it would happen... It's scary and that's definitely why there's definitely a lot of problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I said, you really need to make one shot of the current state as it is, see where there are no paved roads, where the worst roads, where you need to intervene and make certain rules of the game and then resuscitate it existing, do what you have to do and then go along with the clear rules of the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34716	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34717	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, we welcome what this important law, the Law of Roads goes in two readings because it will certainly go in the direction in which we want the law to be quality, to respect all opinions from the field, especially those directly related to it, and that through that assessment of the effects of the regulations we will not be after a year, two days we have seen that we have made a mistake somewhere. And that's why it's good to discuss it like this, and I think there's been some useful debates so far, and that's for sure that the motionor will respect it. In addition, one of the discussions here and HSS supports me personally that through the funding models of the development of local, regional and unclassified roads through co-financing through the county road administrations, consideration is given to increasing ZUC revenue for these 0.010kn per litre of charged energy excise duties because the revenues they now have and our ZUCs are insufficient for quality maintenance and especially for reconstruction of county and local roads to bring them to technical level so that county and local roads should have. During the formation of ZUCs, it is also important to note, the allocation of roads to the management of ZUCs is not dedicated to roads in a technically correct state as some zero state that the County Road Administrations would maintain at the prescribed level. Incomes at their disposal are not enough for quality regular maintenance. In addition to these recent years, the revenues from the price of a liter of gasoline given by the minister were lost. It is already mentioned in the debate that the reduced revenues of the County Road Administration with a billion and 250 million kuna at the state level are at 710 million kuna. That's about 400, 500 million kuna a year. I wonder, and citizens also wonder where that money ended if it is invested in Croatian highways and other infrastructure facilities how then we have 7 billion losses at the level of highways and other roads. Then why spill it again on the back of citizens by increasing the toll? I think we from the Croatian Peasants' Party are against toll collection. I also support, of course, greater separations for mountain and mountain areas, for winter service, for winter maintenance. But it was also already said in the debate that here until the second reading should also consider extending this criterion to other units of local self-government especially less populated, weaker financial opportunities especially of Slavonia and Baranja, Podravina where we have a large move, where the problem is further maintenance of roads. Because we certainly have local road and unclassified roads, especially where it is less trafficked, and that there is a need for greater investment in maintenance. And the funding units of local self-government have been reduced and the law on the financing of units of local self-government is pending and has not yet been seen by the government, and when it will come to the Croatian Parliament. And here's the local election ahead of us, and I'm sure it'll be hard to pass that law this year. And yet the units of local self-government will depend on the criteria of the finance minister to get anything from the Alignment Fund. We wish, of course, that through this and similar laws we always go to meet the economy especially less developed areas, so here I suggest that, until the second reading, models of support to companies that operate, which are both transport and similar, which have a number of own means of transport. How to meet them through truck registration and compensation paid for maintenance and road construction as well as toll levels for them. Because we think we need to find models to preserve every job in less developed areas especially in Slavonia and Baranja. One of the models is what we thought of. If in the town of Zagreb there is no charge for toll from the entrance to the east to practically the border with Slovenia, why not the town of Slavonski Brod, i.e. the citizens of Slavonski Brod, use the highway as their highway because practically the highway divides the town of Slavonski Brod into two parts, on the south and north above the highway. And it would certainly help the economy of Brod-Posavina County and the city of Slavonski Brod. I think we can also come up with such models to help the economy in a less developed area. And what we should also consider is how to return traffic to highways especially truck transport from Eastern countries and from non-European countries. Because more than 8,000 vehicles pass daily the Podravski highway Osijek – Virovitica – Koprivnica and towards Slovenia. They're avoiding our highway. What models to return that traffic to the highways? In this way there would be no devastation of our county and state roads, and on the other hand income would be increased by Croatian highways. And here's how it can be done. And, of course, I agree with the debate that was just before related to Article 108 which regulates the financing and construction and maintenance of unclassified roads in the jurisdiction of local self-government units to determine the state of the road and the unclassified and local, in which way assists local self-government units. Because there were different models that some who were politically closer to the ruling set that part of their local and county roads had been transferred to state roads and thus had less cost of construction, maintenance while in other areas they were unable to do so. And I think that injustice needs to be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34718	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first respected representative of Anne-Marie Petin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34719	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Davor, you mentioned that we should definitely invest in less developed areas, but that the ZUC funds are insufficient for that. And I think you agree with me when I say that this state should intervene more, because here and I am glad that less developed areas are increasingly mentioned in the Croatian Parliament. We're all talking about Slavonia more and more, but somehow it's all bad going by the state government no matter what authority it was, from which party because I'm talking specifically about Virovitica-Podravska County. For too many years, we have been talking about the fast road towards Virovitica, and here is even the last answer I received from the Croatian roads was that it is only the project documentation and the outcome of the building permit, that the deadline for the fast road towards Virovitica for the construction permit is 24 months and that only the beginning of the works is expected at the end of 2019. In order to develop less developed areas, it is essential to develop transport infrastructure in order to develop our Slavonia. But unfortunately, by these means of the County Road Administrations, it is impossible and I think that the state, i.e. I think that the state needs much, much more actively involved in this if we want to help our economy without the development of transport infrastructure. In particular, without a fast road to Virovitica-Podravska County, simply economic development will not be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34720	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34721	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, of course we are all in favour of the traffic development of Croatia and we are pleased to have built the highway towards the south and we are glad to have the Pelješki Bridge. But if we want to develop Slavonia and Baranja and Podravina, Osijek and all those parts that deserve it then of course we should also build a sub-level highway, and I dare say that this should not only be a fast road but a semi-road, I said over eight thousand vehicles a day pass there and it is certainly not good that these ends remain traffic-insulated and that these procedures should be accelerated and that the project documentation should be carried out and these projects prepared for the application of European funds. And these are exactly the kind of funds that should get more points in running and take precedence over realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34722	Thank you. Next replica, respected Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34723	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Vlaovic's. You mentioned county roads, and do you know how many cities in the county are in Croatia that do not have bypasses around their cities? Here I come from Vukovar-Srijem County, our tour is about seven, eight years old, we have a bridge that was already built six, seven years ago and nothing further is done. Why? Well, because certain ministers drag some means aside and leave this to stand. Then you mentioned a truck ride that burdens local roads with how to get them back. Well, of course, return to the cheap toll and try to translate on the highway. It is very expensive for transporters to speak from Slavonia by travelling most to Zagreb or Split to pay so much money for the highway. Our roads aren't bad, I've already said that, but the failures have been made by unfinished bridges, through some of the shares that have been started have ceased, so the strategy that someone was building is the wrong strategy. We threw away the money, and what we could use was nothing. All we pay is interest and we pay our commitments to the money we take. So if we make a strategy, let's do it. Let's not make a strategy then never finish. It costs citizens, it costs this people, this country unfortunately, billions are thrown into unnecessary things where this is who we are, we have to pay back, and we can't, we don't return interest. Well, thank God it's gone a little bit, so I guess maybe we'll go a little bit this year and start the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34724	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34725	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mišić, here we are witnessing that not all cities have built bypasses and that not all modernized roads have been built. A Strategy for Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia has been developed, and I hope that those cities that do not have the ability to draw elements from that strategy for the traffic development of their city and its surroundings and that this is a chance, but it is still too slow. And I certainly agree with you that these underdeveloped areas, smaller cities should be given the opportunity and help of the state in co-financing of project documentation, pre-financing of projects and in the realisation of projects to find models to finance because we know that each project needs 10 to 30% of its own resources when it comes to European money, and that our municipalities and cities do not have. And that is why I mentioned the Law on the financing of units of local self-government that we expect and where there must be a way and a model that through decentralisation not only of obligation but also of fiscal and financial decentralisation enables even development of the Republic of Croatia and of all municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34726	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the distinguished representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34727	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. So here's what I'm saying is that this law is the fifth amendments to the Road Law and they're really positive for me. We had in office 2011-2014 left this Law on the Roads of the former government in the first reading then, I don't know why it wasn't going to pass that law even though it had some similar provisions, but I think it's much worse than these are now proposed. That's why I'm surprised by the SDP's position that he'll be abstention to this law because some were really similar. But, well, I think everyone has a right to their position and let it be made clear. I think these seven good things really need to be repeated once again today because the fact is that in many parts of this law, it helps to manage roads more efficiently than local, regional to state-level, and it creates more order in the system itself. The first sure provision is the one that speaks of limiting the amount of compensation for the financing and maintenance and construction of public roads that are paid from the state budget by... the excise duties charged to energy in accordance with the rules in the budget. Now, that amount isn't small, and I would ask the Secretary of State to really explain to us what this is about. Is this 280 million kuna transferred from 2016 to 2017 because it is not a negligible amount and whoever remains without it can certainly not be happy. And now whether the issue of ineffective work in Croatian roads and HAC or the Ministry of Finance wants a clean order so let's see why the transfer of commitments takes place from one year to another. Of course, I don't think anyone's against being okay and doing what we need to do to consolidate our finances and also the finances of public companies. Second, it is important to introduce a definition of exceptional transport where it is determined that the exceptional transport carried out by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior are exempted from the obligation to issue an emergency transport permit and to save time, but also certain resources. Thirdly, this is a lot of talk today, parts that make up the public road are complemented by objects of cycling trails and footsteps, thus harmonising the definition of components of public and unclassified roads within the meaning of the Roads Act. We see that our standard in terms of roads is especially national, is getting better and better and that here at least on the islands, I see it on Krk and on Rab and on Pag and on Pasman, etc. Now along the state roads you have cycling trails, you have really one space that all those who want to deal with and that kind of tourism can count on you to offer one space of safety for those who want to really deal with such a kind of vacation and that is something that should certainly be commended. The fourth important part of this bill is the release from the obligation to pay toll for emergency vehicles. So this provision will be accurately prescribed for vehicles which emergency services mean they are released for use of highways and charging facilities. VAT funds will be provided in the state budget and amount to 3 million kuna. When we look at how many of these walks a year, it is indeed 312 thousand walkways of various vehicles, emergency services, or those with a rotirka on the highway road, and that is one cost that amounts to about 13 million kunas of toll. These services will probably save that and the state will pay for them part of the VAT, and I think it's really one commendable move for everyone. As far as the following provisions are concerned, the most important thing today is a provision that determines that part of the cost of regular maintenance of unclassified roads in the winter service in local self-government from mountainous mountainous areas is financed from the financing, construction and maintenance of public roads. So it's about 20 million kunas that are secured means in part of the Croatian Roads for 2017 with projections for 2018 and 19th, and it's direct help for these local self-governments to at least compensate in that part for what was taken through the amendments to the Income Tax Act, so through the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas, where the former minister then almost bares that law that the SDP likes to be called upon to those famous provisions so that you can go into the woods and for certain activities you can only read berries and forest fruits, and that's really all that's left in that law. And it's a good thing that it's left, at least that these areas didn't fall out so that at least through this law we can help them by relying on the Law on mountain-mounted areas. Because at the time, it was thinking of completely erasing or abolishing the law. Of course, it's not about the choices they were then. And the rest is what we have. However, we saw a reaction especially from local self-government leaders from Gorski Kotar who in one of their activities came here to Mark's square, protested that the SDP government had then taken away 50 million kunas, promised to pay them back through the compensation fund all those funds, but nothing came back, I think how well I followed only one mayor of SDP who didn't come to the square and he got 2 million kuna, I guess, as a help, a reward for not coming here to the market. I don't want to believe it was like that, but it looked like that to me, and that's how he was accused by those other so-called leaders of other local self-governments. I think this is a commendable move and now the criteria, said the secretary of state would prescribe a rule. We give the law and we'll rule it out and there'll be clearer criteria than the ones we had until 2016, and then the only criterion, which I'm not even hiding, is that the former minister said that they would think, means that they wanted to, and so they distributed the funds. Of course, who died? County Road Administrations. And, of course, this last provision that speaks of harmonising with the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation. We've discussed this law recently, too. And I think it goes in parallel with each other and that we certainly do everything that we can to see with the work of the government, with legislative work here in the Assembly, all the laws that are planned to be harmonised so that everyone in their part has the necessary tools so that they can function in accordance with the law, but also easier to solve all the problems that they face in the building. And I was talking here about ZUC, my Primorje-Gorski County, and we heard that insisting on integrity might give us better results today than what we have in terms of when we talk about extraordinary and regular maintenance. Because if they invested what I put out, it means 890 kilometers of roads that they run in the coastal-goran County, if they invested 2 million kunas in every mile they've managed in these last 18 years, I believe those roads would be in a much better shape than in this way where something partial has been solved. Mostly before the season, it was solved the way it's done today to get a little scratched, so we've got a little traffic jam, so something's going on. Let's just say sometimes it seems to me that it costs more of their arrival on my island and paying the ferry and everything else than what they really do with their goodwill. And that's something to say goodbye to. But I don't think we had integrity in terms of planning and then the results are such that everyone's unhappy, that the county's also unhappy. And we come to the doubt that was said here today. We're asking for more funding, but let's not raise a single fee, not a single expense. So let's not do anything, but we're all looking for more resources. So the state's actually giving it to you. I think that there should be looking for models that are just and populism to leave aside and really see what and in what way in relation to the state and county road administrations, how to help them do their job but not to do it again, again and only to the harm of citizens who use these roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34728	Thank you very much. We're going to take a break now, and we're going to continue with the replicas at three o'clock. Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] And now we're going to the replicas to present the esteemed representative, Josip Boric. Well, the first one came forward by a respected representative, Branko Grcic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. No colleagues, I hope he comes. Of course, there is always a debate very similar every time and always what you would say to me in Split, down in Dalmatia drinking backwards. Yeah? So this measure in changing the law relating to mountainous mountainous areas is something that was incorporated into that law that the SDP proposed. Maybe in this one, maybe in something different. Anyway, it was proposed. And the law wasn't passed because there was no time. So that's when the election started and the whole story stopped. I would just like to remind myself, therefore, that despite these debates that are so lowly trendy, so in the summer of 2015, there was a big meeting at the Ministry of Transport with more than 40 representatives of local self-government units from mountainous and mountainous areas along with ministers, ministries, representatives of ministries, governments and that then four measures were agreed by us as government were the most important ones to implement through the legislative procedure, and this was an increase in the share of income tax by all units in the mountainous and mountainous areas. There are three measures left. One is for winter conditions in these areas, the other is to increase the forest contribution which, unfortunately, has not yet happened. And therefore increase the share in the forest contribution. The third measure, i.e. the fourth, was 40 million kuna for these areas through the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. So here is more than a year of one day, so the other HDZ government, the government of the Most, has not actually implemented these three measures. I welcome here the first of these measures will be passed with this law and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34731	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34732	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to replicate the representative he doesn't have. So, I'm interested in this call of the former governments that are blaming themselves for the various problems that the HDZ now allegedly has in the conduct of the government. If they are so critical of the work of former ministers, i.e. the former government, then the HDZ will go along with the HNS in the local elections. So they're collating with the CNS as far as I'm aware of in several cities, into several municipalities, and on the other hand they're criticising their ministers, the government that they're not doing anything right. And I'd like them to agree with themselves. So if they weren't good, then don't deal with them. And if you're dealing with them and you're collating with them, then I guess they were good. So, it seems that HDZ representatives have better relations with those who attack than with their own club. We see that I do not know Darinko Kosor supports Sandra Švaljeg, your independent representative goes past the HDZ candidate in Zagreb, and on the other hand your HNS is good, and now you're saying it's wrong. Well, I don't know anymore. We here witness totally contradictory and confusing statements. On the one hand, these ministers were no good from the Kukuriku coalition, but on the other hand they're very good now I'm coalitiond with them, and one of these are the same people. Well, come on, get it straight, then is that former government good or not good and I say make up your mind. Do not put responsibility on someone on the other side at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34733	Comrade Bunjac, I did not interrupt you expecting you until the last minute that you would say something about the Law of the Roads, because the point we are discussing is the Law of the Roads. You didn't say a word about it. I realize it's pre-election time, the local elections are getting closer and I know you want to win points, but let's not abuse this assembly for pre-election purposes. The theme is the Roads Act. It's enough room for a political game. So, please, let's stick to the subject all together. The Honorable Representative, Strick, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34734	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President. More or less you said everything. So a colleague injured Article 232. He didn't replicate, he didn't talk about the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34735	Okay. Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34736	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Mr. Boris mentioned in his debate that the maintenance of roads in the Primorje-Gorski County is inadequate, so he mentioned the island of Rab, its Lopar. But it's not just on Rab and Gorski Kotar and other islands. Annual maintenance and use fees for public roads shall be paid in or during registration. So what do you think, then, is now a question to the Ministry's representatives what do you think about the model that people who have more cars to register each pay individually according to already established full-price criteria. Would it be good to pay for the registration of only one and that car's largest power, and the others use the same license plate. We know it's a model that exists in some countries, or do you think that would jeopardize road maintenance financing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34737	Thank you. My colleague Kirin, you have now addressed the presidents of the ministry, and in fact, you have replicated a colleague, Boric, who unfortunately does not exist. But now we will move to individual debates and the first to appear is the distinguished representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34738	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the representative of Mr. Mihotic and the others. Here is the fifth amendment to the Law on Roads, I believe you will agree that it is time for a new law, and it will condition it, or condition and amend it, or a new Law on concessions, so I believe that in the next period we will see each other after different changes or on the adoption of a new Law on Roads. What is in this law? So we're talking about financing then we're talking about road financing, we're talking about definition of road concepts, and we're talking about facilitating road financing in mountain-mounted areas. I come from the coastal area of the Makarska Riviera and would look back and connect the same local problem that plagues our units of local self-government and make a proposal here, given that this problem is also a burning way to facilitate the financing of units of local self-government and these roads located in coastal municipalities and cities. What's this about? We've got coastal promenades, which are in the function of a track of pedestrian streets. They are not recorded in the cataster and land books, and are found on the particles of maritime goods. It is also not possible to apply that provision of Article 133(1) of the Law under which these roads are registered in a cataster and entered in land books as a public good in the general use of inalienable ownership of local self-government units, and in whose territory they are located is real estate in the status of maritime goods. And then what happens? In the middle of the 4th month, we have a competition from European funds that requires a real right to invest in. And all the forms of some other acquisition of real rights are very long and it needs to be changed. Now, I ask you to think about it, I am standing here as well as all the municipalities I represent, given that until the second reading for urgency, or that in the new law somehow facilitate this situation because here is a specific municipality in the area of the Riviera as well as many others they have carried out the border of maritime good on the northern coastal promenade. It is also a wheel road for one part of the facilities by the sea and is the only access through that promenade. And I say it can only be legalized by the Law on Spatial Planning. And when we follow these articles, then we should get the first building and location permit for the already existing infrastructure, then we should pitch, form a particle on the road and the road, and so that this new formed particle would have a sign of a culture road, and it would still be owned by the status of a maritime good, which doesn't suit us. So this procedure is long-term, representatives of local self-government units find it unnecessary, and means that, through the amendment of the Road Law, possible amendments to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, amendments to the Law on Spatial Arrangements and amendments to the Law on Construction should be made to make it possible to make this approach easier to legalise, let's say these roads within the maritime goods. And now it needs to be checked if there is a possibility but in fact it's the best option for local self-government units to delete the status of maritime goods and to enter non-classified public goods roads in general use in the inalienable ownership of local self-government units. We know that there are certain concerns here, and therefore the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports has given all those rights to maintaining units of local self-government, reconstructing all and in the nature of the promenade, or the wheel road that is located on the maritime good, but it is important to give real ownership rights, we can limit it partly to, for example, the example. permanently prohibiting the removal of public good travel status in such situations. So if it's possible until the second reading if we don't know when and if you need help, we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34739	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the distinguished representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34740	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. The amendments to the law are a shift forward, but I repeat again what is most important is the strategic management of roads from various local, regional to state. The fact that what is strategic in the Republic of Croatia for each county and for each region as well as for each region is very important that this ministry recognises and that of course it is not enough that the shift for mountainous and mountainous areas is these 20 million kunas. However, with infrastructure, if you can do so in the Ministry of Transport Infrastructure as a very important vessel of housewives each end, it is important to have these strategic goals, mostly fast state roads passing through cities, roads that are essentially slowing down the development of these cities and these environments, and certain fast roads as would be in the case of what was launched for a whole cetin area that has 60 thousand inhabitants of Križica-Kukuzovac, these are very important projects. You're from these parts, so you know what I'm talking about. But there's always some kind of congestion here. It's always said about it actually at the time of election campaigns, and in reality it doesn't happen. In fact, there are four, five large centres, large cities in Zagreb, here I will speak in the case of Split, which simply has no space to spread but according to its background, that is the fact. It is a huge number of inhabitants in one area of 300 thousand from Trogir to Omisko region where we have traffic problems. And certainly make strategic changes, i.e. The strategic roads, links to these regions would give you space to make these regions such as the Cetinski region a suburb with a fast road, an example of the Kukozovac-Kryzice that has been launched and which is already a feasibility study, already the variants have been chosen but by an accelerated process in fact these rural, bordered areas of the hinterland, after which the suburbs of these large cities have been chosen. And much better conditions would be with those links of life than in the city itself. You know that, I repeat again because you were the headmaster downstairs, you were dealing with these projects, and you know what would mean for the big cities themselves, and especially for the people who live in those environments. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll repeat what I said this morning in front of the club. The most important are priorities and criteria. Without criteria, mainly about these 20 million kunas and should be much more decentralised, it's always a problem that everything is centralized, then without criteria, i.e. Political decisions, i.e. lobbying certain people from local sites depending on where the political position lies with these lobbying essentially they try to solve some of the problems of their roads of state, local, county, enlargement, foot-to-mouth like that. I can testify to that because now I have the door open to everyone, it's easier as a parliamentary representative than before. Which is not good, so there would have to be some kind of, i.e. It would have to be regulations and criteria, certain rules, and it would certainly improve that, especially those border areas, because I always mention these empty areas, we won't have to pave the way for a few more years at all, or build roads, or roads if people don't live there, but they don't have their own conditions and that infrastructure, it's very important, and with all the infrastructure, it's a transport infrastructure. Of course, it is not only that issue of the Ministry of Transport as a large ministry and very important but all the ministries and complete government and as regional self-government and all local self-government in the Split-Dalmatia County, which I speak of in other counties as well. So once again until the second reading, it would be very important, I know it's a special rule, the criterion that it doesn't, it doesn't, but to comply with this law mainly on the use of these 20 million kunas that are very important in these areas. But again I repeat only by law, by regional law, where, the Law on Regional Law, where, the Regional Development Law of 2014, was made a huge injustice towards the ends, here I can say according to my city of Sinj and others, Gorsko Kotar where... was thrown out of the assisted areas by unreasonable, de facto I do not know by what criteria then the Government of Zoran Milanovic could at all have thrown out and declared those regions developed. So it's a very important criterion that we have to have, but it's one set of entire policies of the ministries for these areas of mountain and mountainous and these policies of course and traffic, among other things, to be targeted and targeted towards these parts because that human potential of the people who lived there is going away, and if we don't solve the problems both in traffic and on other issues, and I know that you know this matter and that you can now, as secretary to the ministry, not push through, but cry out to heaven to correct these areas. So here in this direction would be this Maras going individually to be essentially the most going towards decentralisation, about the regulation and criteria of using funds, of course and the strategy of local, regional and state authorities to make means the strategy of all roads and that is possible and feasible because why if we can't do so then we have no purpose or local self-government, then the purpose of ourselves, the counties are the purpose of themselves and countless of these officials within the county and we don't know how many institutions and how many numbers there are. So we better shut them down and finance directly decentralised funds not through the county but through local self-government would be much fairer and fairer than this way. And once again very important, this law makes certain irregularities, i.e. possible occurrences to be controlled in case of emergency, firemen, services and police may be controlled and should be controlled and there will be a rule on the use of highways. For me, without criteria and regulations, this is all for nothing, and it will be non-transparent and still. Not transparently and it will be unfair towards certain areas as it has been. So the easiest thing is this rulebook, i.e. This law changes but if there are no certain rules and criteria everything comes down to lobbying, to the power of individuals. From where I come from, no matter if it's from the Dalmatian mountain or Zagory, I don't think it's good. So we should be, in particular, the executive authority should put before us either your ministry or other ministries of certain criteria and rules for all roads being built and other roads. Without that, we have no success. We will still have to mean this way friendly relationships to solve things that are really not good in one country. By the way, politics is also the ability to lobby, but it must not be primary because many regions will die out because they do not have enough resources in their budget not to maintain roads, they do not have to plan any other infrastructure, very important projects for the survival of these people. And once again in the end, I would ask you to make criteria for all the funds and especially these now, very important it is for maintaining these roads in the winter period what is positive what you put in for Gorski Kotar, Lika and the rest of the mountain-mounted, local self-government and that should be supported. But really without criteria, I'm afraid political influence will be too great again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34741	Thank you, we have one replica of the distinguished representative Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj keeps repeating his story about mountainous and mountainous areas, so I will now insist on his tactics on repeating what I said earlier. So the new classification of our local self-government units has entered the state support system, and about 60 of them have come out. So 40 more is in the support system since Milanovic's government introduced a new classification system. According to the development index which is not ideal, but the only one we have in Croatia. We'll see when it's new again, there'll be those who are happy and they'll be dissatisfied. So there will always be someone who will be unhappy with this new classification, because someone will fall out of the support system. That's the first thing. The second thing, in the summer of 2015, so before the end of our term, 40 representatives of local self-government units from mountainous and mountainous areas are talking about a system of measures for mountainous and mountainous areas as an upgrade to what I was talking about earlier. And four measures have been agreed. One was an increased share in income tax, which we as a government succeeded in the Parliament's procedure and ended three more measures. One is the one that's now embedded in this law. So the HDZ and MOST government took more than a year, so it took two governments more than a year to put the agreed and proposed measure here to debate the Parliament. That's what we're talking about and let's be consistent with that. The second measure was an increased share in the forest contribution. And a third measure of a minimum of 40 million kuna targeted to support these units of local self-government through the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. And these are the very consistent, detailed and precise things we agreed on. So the new government was just about to go through with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34743	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34744	Representative Greek, you as minister can remember, I am personally here because Sinj as a city is the most damaged then about 20 million new laws. So almost a quarter, almost 40% of the budget. I personally bought a petition, delivered it to you and to your then deputy gentleman who was changing you. Also Pulizu, the president of the country at the time. What's the problem? The problem is that 35 cities and municipalities, 15 cities, that is, 20 municipalities suddenly run out of support. You did after the public pressure, I organised numerous protests in Sinj personally, because it was an injustice and cry out to the sky of those parts. In fact, we simply wiped out local self-government. You are this local self-government Sinj in this case 20 million kuna Gorski kotar, only the city of Sinj 20 million kuna taken from the budget, and the budget is 47 million kuna. Then you can know now what a blow and injustice it was for that end. So the problem was what that development index was all five, you had examples, one criterion, and now there's a structure of educated people. The more educated your development rate is no matter how unemployed they are, no matter how young they leave. Mostly the key problem is what all governments have so far promised these parts and the solution is now this, because it's simple. Well, I didn't support my fellow Greeks or the budget here, and you know that because of this particular problem that we're talking about, the mountainous area where the support has been abolished, only because it's a simple solution. The solution is that 150 million kunas remain, so they leave the new 35 that have been abolished. It's simple. If the state can't do it for these parts, then what's the point of central government at all... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34745	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her distinguished representative, Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34746	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate and associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I say a few words about the amendments to the Road Law, I think that's what the Ministry, or the Government, would do with the entire Roads Act. This is because from the moment the Road Law was passed only in 2011 it seems to me until April or May, so 2013 and fourteen times the law was amended. It does not necessarily need to be a bad law change, but three times changing the law in a few months speaks of a lack of strategy and vision of relations to the main transport system in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think we should approach that whole amendment of the whole law. What was particularly bad for me for the road sector in Croatia is this first amendment of the Roads Act, which, unfortunately, is not written in 2013 at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, but at the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because, in order to reduce the deficits of the state budget, the funds to Croatian railways, which at one point there in 2008, amounted to nearly 3 billion in the tenth year, i.e. 2 billion and 900 million kuna. And as the then government decided to cut funds to the Croatian railways, primarily HZ infrastructure should have been replaced. And then the government remembered a convenient model, which is that 60 limes that are paid per litre of fuel are distributed on the name of the Croatian highways in a way that 20 belong to Croatian roads, 20 left to HAC, and 20 goes to HZ Infrastructure. In this way is the Croatian road system, and in the first row Croatian highways have lost a billion kuna. The government, among other things, is just and the fact that a monetization will be made anyway, through this monetization Croatian highways will be relieved, and then there is no need for additional financing to be made through a liter of fuel, of the state's loans to build HAC, and that they will move towards a more significant construction of HZ Infrastructure, so the railways in Croatia will benefit them. In the end, what's an epilogue? Croatian citizens have declared in the referendum that they do not want to monetize or privatise highways, which is good and I welcome this view by the Minister, Ministry and Government to solve the problems of the HAC with their own forces within the Republic of Croatia through debt reprogramming, through the restructuring of the HAC and the ARZ, etc. and then get rid of that part. And this second part we were expecting, which is that these 20 limes will help speed up the construction of the railway infrastructure didn't happen. So it was one blow to the road system in the Republic of Croatia because we raised 500 million sectors to one another, we didn't do that monetization here, and it's good that we didn't do it, but this project failed, and on the other hand the funds that were to be invested in the construction of the railway system were not because we witnessed that neither the construction of the 5B rail corridor was made, that they were late and the other railway routes in Croatia. However, what happened in parallel with this, and it was in a certain way an incentive for me to report for this debate, which is that at that time when it was done in the road sector that not only did we poverty the state-level road system but we first cut down that same year, we cut the funds for the extraordinary maintenance of the county roads that were in the power of the maritime, transport and infrastructure minister, who had the right to deploy the funds to ZUC and then the government, the government, that government of Zoran Milanovic, the Kukuriku coalition, first reduced from 250 to 120 ŽUCs and subsequently abolished in 2015. And that's how we stopped building the basic highway routes, for example towards Dubrovnik towards the coprivnica-crossing direction towards Bjelovar and Koprivnica, we did not continue to build, we did not take that step in building the railway system, and on the other hand we impoverished the ZUCs. At that time, however, the government, as a single step towards the ZUCs, borrowed a loan on behalf of the Croatian roads and invested the funds of $400 million in the pre-election campaign in 2013 so that certain routes of smaller road operations could occur through the ZUCs on the ground. But the epilogue follows that 250 million kunas that the county had until two years ago are now gone. And in that sense, what Mr. Škorić was saying this morning, I also support it. I think we need to strengthen the local and regional self-government that manages the ZUCs, which is on the trail of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme that goes towards further decentralisation both functionally and financially. And I think it would be good to think about the amount Mr. Skorić spoke about 10 limes until the second reading on re-use because if it is known that 60 limes were then about a billion and 500 million kuna, then 10 limes were spoken of by Mr. Škorić precisely 250 million kunas that the ZUCs had in 2013. So it would be good for the government to think about it until the second reading. What you would also say is that it is a harmonised action, and clearly because it is the same government of the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, where through the amendments to the Construction Act, it will allow for faster, faster implementation of a number of infrastructure projects such as those managed by the Croatian Roads or HAC or HZ Infrastructure, so any roadway route direction will be able to be rapidly solved, given, for example, the temporary solutions to enforcement, given the possibility of obtaining permits without solving property returns, given the outcome of a temporary use permit without a solution to property relations, this will all prove effective on this project of building the Pelješko bridge, on which, both the congratulations and Croatian roads, because, as we learnt... two days ago fully approved the financing of the construction of the Peljesko bridge, but that it would certainly be an important solution for the construction of the construction of the construction of the infrastructures, and the construction of the construction of the infrastructures, and the realisation of the construction of the infrastructures, and the construction of the construction of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures of the infrastructures of the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, the infrastructures, and the infrastructures and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, and the infrastructures, the This morning Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash referred to the possibility of legalising objects, so the building not only of the buildings in the Republic of Croatia that we brought in 2011 later and changed in 2012, I think that should be considered. But my view is this, we can also do with these two laws that I have mentioned, and the Law on Roads and Construction, and the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, and the Law on Legalisation, if you want all those buildings that can't be subjected to the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, we only partially solve problems in Croatia. To solve this systematically, we need a new state geodetic measurement, a new cadastre, a new land book, and we have not only legalized what we are talking about but we can also speed up the realization of all investments and projects in the Republic of Croatia. Given that I have little time left, I would also refer to this proposal for a conclusion that the SDP Club referred to in the procedure. And I just want to say that nothing's getting rid of this. You know that, here, you are required to establish the price, if I understand correctly that the price of ferry lines for vehicles is equal to the corresponding length of the highway and that the price of the ferry for certain vehicles is aligned with the price that these vehicles pay to drive the highway. In that case, if they do, or get rid of them. In that case, if such a proposal is then it is a practical spill from the hollow to empty because if it does not pay the MUP it will be paid by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections subsidized by a single state So I don't see any big reason. ... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Supported to make life easier for the islanders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34747	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34748	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, looking at these discussions, I always get the impression that the power comes that way. Something didn't end because it was her or that power, something wasn't obtained because it was her and she was power. Now I have to repeat this, in my Vinkovci we have a bypass where five years ago a bridge is made and stands, so it leads nowhere and we know that there are many in Croatia. Now you're in power, HDZ is in power now, and I'm asking that part of the bypass is over once. We see for ourselves how much money we've thrown into unsolved things, and I've already mentioned it today, some bridges that don't lead anywhere, highways where they've come to Sava, and they're not the other ones, the Sisak-Peljeski bridge and everything else. So please give it because you are now in power and your minister of traffic let them try to solve this tour around Vinkovci which is really, really crucial to the citizens of Vinkovci and probably has other cities but I will mention Slavonia which has been ruined and in this way, so please here you are in power to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34749	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34750	My colleague Misic, I agree with you, it seems to me that the secretary of state, while you've replicated it to me, may later and in the final address, look back at your proposal. I agree with you that the construction of roads must be systematic and come from the Strategy for Development, Transport Development of the Republic of Croatia. When I mention that strategy, then I must express my regret, as an opposition representative in several times, on the other hand I spoke and resented the government which I think is one of the key strategies developing the Republic of Croatia and this is the Strategy of Transport Development, has not come to this Assembly. Which the parliamentary deputies could not show about such an important document that the government then adopted at its session within 12 seconds of the duration of the presentation of the then minister in which he explained to the Government the strategy for traffic development. I do not want to say that this strategy was bad but it is unfortunate that the MPs did not have the opportunity to announce it when I know that the strategy adopted in 1999 so 18 years ago was three days ago, then the Croatian Parliament in 1999 discussed the traffic strategy for three days and we in 2015 did not have any possibility to discuss such a strategy. Otherwise, when specifically speaking about any project, the Government must adopt a four-year road development programme, road system construction and four-year programme, then annual programmes are adopted. If so, and I hope that later, my colleague Mihotić will look back on it, so there must be a system and this is a strategy of spatial planning, which results in a four-year programme of public road construction in Croatia, adopted by the government, and then on the proposal of the Resort Ministry, these things are being addressed which you have stated so that one road is not being built, it is being invested in huge funds and then there is no point in it because it is not a complete project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34751	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I always have to explain some things because no story has one side of the medal, there's always two sides of the medal. So if something is, if the roads have run out of money then that money has not disappeared but has been transferred somewhere else to solve the problems of the sector, in this case the Croatian Railways. So the Croatian railways were at the bottom. We started the restructuring process, and there should have been huge severance payments because a huge number of people went unfortunately home but there were no social unrest and this and that because they just got some decent fees. They were aware that there were too many people out there, so they couldn't go on like that. And then you should've put some money on the table, not just for that, but for some other stuff, and that money was from the road part, only partly went there to solve the problem, and it didn't go anywhere, and that's where we have to make it clear, clearly to point it out. There was therefore a goal, we were aware of all the restrictions and the fact that Croatian roads would run out of one piece of money, so it would be a smaller service on the ground. And in the end, we actually found a solution like that. This process is not over but it is up to you, on your government, to continue this further process of restructuring and railways and continue the road. And the other thing, you mentioned the Pelješki bridge, you thanked, or congratulated, you could say a little to the last government, because I, my associates, my colleague Hajdash, and that government negotiated the financing of the Peljega Bridge and he entered the programming documents by name and name. If it hadn't been for anything, this wouldn't have happened any further. And we need to be aware of that. Although you may not have believed us to do this, but you see, we came to a very mature stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34753	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Greek man himself took part in the draft budget, the state budget and the ministry as a minister and as a secretary of state, and I know what the problems are when you need to fit in with the deficit and when you have to slowly remove someone more, someone less. And when your railway problem is great, and on the other hand you think that through the monetization of Croatian roads you will partially facilitate this sectoral sector, that road sector and you will transfer the funds to the railways. And that was one legitimate man I'd say project of your government. But I have to tell you, I don't think it was right for those who pay. In fact, when a driver who fills his own fuel tank of a passenger car finances a railway, he finds it a little strange, because when you spend your car on a one road, public road, unclassified road, the fuel fee is assumed to be returned to where that money is invested and not to the railway infrastructure. This seems wrong to me, regardless of the fact that you simply raised the Croatian highways which were also in significant financial problems, given the large funds we were in debt for. And as for the Peljega Bridge, I can commend you for taking one step that went towards... financing, but I will never forgive you for stopping his construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if it had been a year since you stopped it until today, we'd have been detached from the budget of only 400 million kunas, we'd have had a project and built it by the Croatian consortium. We might testify today that the constructor is on his feet, if he had remained on his feet to finance the construction of the Pelješko bridge and remained hydroelectric and remained Croatian construction infrastructure and that perhaps it would have been a difficult time for the crisis that passed the construction sector would have been found in this one project, although it was not such a means, but perhaps this Croatian consortium would have been today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34755	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34756	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, I agree with your conclusion from the debate that in fact the biggest problem of the law adopted in 2014 is precisely the lack of, or poor road financing. As I am here and in the County Assembly, there is no session of a congregation where road maintenance problems are not discussed, and the answer is always the same, the resources are insufficient. So there are huge problems. For years it has not invested enough in the road system and needs are increasing and then we have now come into a situation that is simply at the local level are decentralised road maintenance especially unclassified roads, so for example the town of Karlovac has received 158 kilometers of unclassified maintenance roads, and this is followed not only by roads, but also by bridges that are in poor condition. So we've had a few floods, so we've got slides and so on. That's a lot of trouble. That's why I think that just in the next changes and new laws, maybe until the second reading, you should really consider better funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34757	The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Jelkovac. I agree that the problem of financing road infrastructure is both at local and national level today. I believe that this proposal, which we have presented from 0,10 and 10 limes per litre of fuel, will not be so easy to sit down with the ministry since we are witnessing that this project of reprogramme, or restructuring, and in part to increase tolls was necessary if we have decided not to go to monetization, privatization of Croatian highways, and any lip in this sector that remains at national level means a lot at national level. So it won't be easy to satisfy our request either. But once we knew we had it, it was the worst, so he barely had it, so he didn't have it. Is it? That's the way it is in this case. We, when I say that, speak for you because you have now spoken for the city of Karlovac, in the name of the Carlova County. These funds were available. It's large amounts of kilometers managed by the ZUCs, run by large cities. They don't have enough resources for that, and those roads serve us all as they serve the state roads, as highways do. So in order to raise that part of the road sector, i.e. public roads, to a higher level, it would be very good for the funds, and I hope that both the ministry and the secretary of state, the minister, the government understands the needs of local and regional self-government so that these roads will indeed rise to an appropriate level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34759	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34760	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, I don't think you've exactly interpreted my proposal for a conclusion. I'm the one who reported for an individual debate, so I'll have a little more time to explain. So this refers to, my proposal for a conclusion is that police vehicles, armed vehicles, fire trucks, ambulances and rescue vehicles do not pay the ferry under the same conditions as when they do not pay the toll. Otherwise, there are already some vehicles, so that's already applied in one part. So this is a proposal to level that part under the same conditions, not to pay the toll, not to pay the ferry when no toll is paid. So it's a relatively small number of vehicles and it's about helping primarily voluntary fire companies from the island that function as associations, so de facto local self-government. And it's made easier by the services that work in the islands, so that cheaper, that they can come in a easier way. And my suggestion is otherwise, and that's the last time I suggested a conclusion about that panel, my suggestion is that the government not be in charge but call, which is much easier, and I think you've seen that gentle one line and consider it. So here I invite you to trust the government that she will consider and perhaps come up with what you said, and maybe when you consider and conclude that this can be done. In fact, this is one of the proposals that I received from the field of non-party and other people who are really active primarily refers to firefighters, in order to significantly facilitate their functioning and not be a big problem for society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34761	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bauk is as islander as I am and then equally sensitized for the problems of the islanders. In addition to the DVD vehicle in your proposal, all other vehicles, as a rule, owned by an institution of the Republic of Croatia. So if we release that vehicle that is, for example, police, emergency medical services, etc. The fact that we will release the vehicle and they will not pay 90 % of the Adriatic that maintains 90% of the lines for the integration of Croatian islands, Jadrolini will free it neatly for that vehicle if the law says so, but not this one, but the Law on Public Line coastal transport, which says what needs to be done and who needs to be free of charge or any other way subsidized that ferry map of Jadrolini will orderly invoice that price to the same agency. So saving on one will cost that same budget again. Therefore, I have no objection to simplifying the police, firemen, emergency services, the sanity of all possible ticket prices to the islands, but we immediately know that it will pay one other pocket to the state budget, or it will pay this same ministry through its Public Coastal Transport Agency both Jadrolini and all shipmen who provide services to those same vehicles to get to the island. That's all I wanted to say that I welcome being cheap to the islanders, but instead of paying the islanders they'll pay the MUP instead of the MUP they'll co-finance this ministry. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34763	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34764	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I can't help but notice that these afternoon discussions about this law today are much more quality on a number of other laws. The reason is probably simple to turn off the lights of the reflectors, devote themselves to the matter to the profession, and then politics or political points mainly now before local elections sort of fall into shadow. We have before us the law on amendments and additions, which is the sixth amendment and addition of this Law on Roads. I'm usually a supporter, and while I was at the local level, every law when it comes to three amendments to the law goes into the making of a new whole law. It is a simple story because in some ways bureaucratic and administrative breakdowns are reduced to a minimum, and even a reader of the law does not adopt or explain things as they are. Through the very replica of one colleague, Anki Mrak Taritash, I spoke of one segment, and now I will explain it again and in some way answer her colleague, Anki Mrak Taritash, to her reply in the replica. Today we have corridors along the state roads which are 25 meters from the edge of the land connected to the location permit on one side and 25 meters from the other side. The big problem brought this here now in the current legalization. Mrs. Anka, through her debate, told the reply to the reply to me that there was one regulation or one in the law on legalization that an officer on the ground, I repeat, could legalize and view such a thing. As a matter of fact, anything you can trust me on account of a line of minor resistance, officers on the ground will not make that decision. That's why it's important to correct. Okay. The road corridor not built or built can be that 25 meters from both sides of the road, but when the road has already been built, when the road is finished then it is really necessary to give, whether through the Construction Act or through this law to reduce this corridor for several reasons. First of all, in the coastal area you have a lot of objects that are connected to state and county roads, ultimately it is a way out of communication facilities. The second reason is to maintain that space. I know, the law says it will maintain state roads or possibly local community, but you have a lot of private property, a man who's been deprived of the possibility of any use of that space within the corridor in terms of construction, of course, won't pay attention to that particle of the country. And that is why it is very important to reduce the space of that corridor when the traffic is already built and when the exact route of the road is defined. Until it is built there is always the possibility of a slight change of projects, so locational, so building due to objective circumstances and moving into the corridor space. But when it's already built, it's really something to think about. One more thing, and I also said through the replica that I would look back through an individual debate, which is the dualism of maintenance on state roads in spaces of limited spatial plans of local communities. Now the situation on the ground is about like this, the state roads maintain road coloring, asphalting and snow cleaning, everything else is a matter of concessionaires chosen by local administrations in the area of local road maintenance. You have a situation due to some kind of accident, accident, anything, spilling on the train lane oil, sand, anything. In practice, the concessionaire of the state road is obliged to come fence that part and then the concessionary of the local environment it is obliged to come and clean up. We really need to simplify that. Whether until the second reading or some new whole law at will to professional services. Furthermore, you have public lighting on state roads. That public lighting is paid by the local community. The payment of local communities of that public lighting may not be a problem now or in the financial means itself, but a concessionaire within the local community must call each time a concessionary of state roads in the area to give him consent to go change the lighting on a public pillar paid by the local community and maintained. The same is the case with cleaning sand along the edge of roads, it is an obligation under current law, local administration, or concessionary of local administration. But the sandman can't clean up until he gets the approval of the state road concessionaires. Therefore, this dualism on the very roads of state or county level within a local community must indeed be simplified. I do not prejudge whether this will remain a commitment in the financial sense of the local community or whether it will remain a public road obligation, or whether it will be a concessionary for the state road. Now you're saying, somebody's probably gonna ask a question so it's not really necessary, they're next to each other and they're gonna get rid of it. However, through one example. There may be an accident on the state road because of spills of oil, sand, or I don't know what. Do you know who's on the state road in which case pays compensation and who's guilty? In the event of a complaint from a participant in a car accident? A local community. A local community. That's not allowed. Why? Because of this already said dualism of the maintenance of roads within the local community, it is, as we have already said, oil, sand or similar responsibility for the car accident that took place, therefore, responsible, the local community concessionist on the road for not fulfilling his obligations. And he's crossed by a concessionary of state roads to enter in, we'll say so, we can say in possession. Therefore, this problem within the local communities, therefore with space, limited spatial plans of a particular local community and that the jurisdiction or rank of the road of state or county level, must be resolved by some new or amended law until another reading or some new one, I plead with the whole law not to bring about dualism. And how do you solve it is going to make the profession much better? And to the very end, this proposal of addition, amendment and addition of the law was very much, going in a very positive direction forward mainly for the environments that financial assistance in cleaning snow and some other activities would be very good because I know it was much easier in our county, although we don't have so many problems down there, but back in 3 years there were really big problems, maybe it felt a lot more because we weren't so prepared than in some other environments of our country. But it was much easier to clean up in local communities, which potential was much larger and unfortunately a large part of the roads due to the expansion of smaller local communities and because of the length of state and county roads were not able. I therefore commend this bill in this context. And once again please look again to another reading of this dualism maintenance on state and county roads within individual local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34765	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34766	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to say that here, we've been talking about these amendments to the road laws for a long time, but the main change that bothers our citizens is to collect tolls on highways no. 1 a no. 2 fake promises of MOST to introduce vinjets. In Croatia, we pay the most expensive highways in Europe. For example, in Switzerland, the annual vignette is 35 euros, the annual vignette of ladies and gentlemen is 200 kuna. You cannot go from Zagreb to Dubrovnik for 200 kuna. And I'm sorry that there's no talking about this problem here because many people don't end up driving on the highways because of their expensiveness. And then eventually there's even a drop in income. And I say, you keep ignoring that subject and why I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34767	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Boban, indeed before noon, and we have mentioned, that is, you mentioned the problem that arises with these corridors and with the houses that were built in the corridors after the roads got their function, that is, they were built. And I can only repeat and, or I can appeal once again, when there was a debate on the Law on Legalisation, then we pointed out, I also pointed to this provision of Article 6 to clearly define that it can also be legalised in places that are of public purpose and that are being brought in for purposes. That's what matters. This means that we are still protecting plan corridors and that what has already been defined is so. In the Law on Legalisation, there is indeed a provision that it is possible to legalise it even now, with the competent authority giving consent. And you and I both know that if the authorities don't have to, they wouldn't mind getting involved in it as we're told here. However, it is also good to do so through this amendment to the Law on Legalization. I usually advocate that when there are some extremes in the space, that when there are some kind of deviations in the space, which is a large amount of illegally built buildings, we need to know that it's big and has lots of buildings, infrastructure intentions that are illegally built, so that we can make one law. Because even before the Law on Spatial Planning and the basis of the Construction Act, legalization was possible. However, it was difficult for people to decide. If we have that, then it's better to pass the regulation, but the regulation has to be really quick and expedient, so I'm saying that what you're saying is in the Law on Legalization that goes into second reading, not in the Laws on Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34769	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34770	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, I will be happy to share part of the debate with you and respond to the replica, unlike the politics here, so I will not respond to the replicas. You know the situation, I explained in the debate. There is a possibility that when a building permit is issued for a particular road, it does not even end up locationally with the very edge of the footstep. There's a possibility that after the project, there might be some kind of co-op, and that hair loss goes into the location permit. And that hair can be about 5, 10 meters, 15 meters. So beyond that cut, this provision of 25 meters [25 m] corridors takes place, which means that from the very edge of the legpost there may be 30 and a half feet [40 m] of land that is somehow in the corridor itself. And the biggest problem, I am not such a supporter and that everything and everything is legalized, absolutely agree with you, but we can't leave the officers on the ground, it's you with me, I hope you agree because they generally line of less resistance but also this unfortunate atmosphere that's in Croatia for years the government has been feeling responsible whether someone will call me or won't call me, then he says there's no license in the area. And there's a possibility I can tell you up to 50, 60 meters that there isn't. Now the problem of keeping that space, the vegetation, the grass and everything else in the area is being put in place. It may be a private particle I will repeat, the owner frustrated that no construction operation can have on its own particle, will not maintain, will not work. The state roads or the local road concessionaire will certainly not go so far from the road at 25 or 30 meters. And then there's a problem, and I'm not talking about our area and the impression of the tourist road remains very rough. That's how I thought it was supposed to be corrected, especially for the roads that were built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34771	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34772	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So first of all, let me express my support for these amendments to the Road Law. I think they will contribute to the quality of this activity, the activities of road management. But I answered because this is an opportunity used by most of the other MPs to talk about the problems that bring the end from which I come, which is Koprivnica-Kristevnica County of Koprivnica. Much has been said here about the lack of funds that the County Road Administrations have. It started somewhere stronger in 2013, even though I agree with my colleague, Vedligaj, who clearly said on behalf of the SDP didn't start with 2013 and really didn't. And until then, the County Road Administrations had not had enough means to maintain roads, but then it was still radicalized when they took away these famous 250 million kunas. This means in these kind of 4, 5 years only the County Road Administration of Koprivnica, i.e. the Križevci who lords the county and local roads in our county was cut off by 32 million kuna. Also, the original income of the County Road Administration that goes to the number of vehicles is not large because there are only 46,000 vehicles in our county, so the county administration has only 28 million kuna funds in this year for the maintenance and construction of county roads. If we know that we have 840 km of roads of that county and local, then you realize that's where and where insufficient funds are found. And I must admit that I was a little envious when my colleague Boris said they were about 18 years old if I hadn't been wrong since '98. And by 2016 in his county spent about 2 million kuna a mile, by my calculations, it's about 750 thousand kuna. And every year the situation gets worse. So the roads that are the county rank today, which were once long-drawn by an asphalt layer, are slowly moving into the macadamia today, which is inadmissible but unfortunately simply has no means to fix it and at least to be held at that level that it was at, let's say, five or ten years ago. So in any case, I support that proposal that came from fellow Skoric on behalf of our club to single out 10 limes for the county and local roads, because I think that would at least sort of resuscitate this situation. Also when I'm talking about unclassified roads that are burdened by units of local self-government and there's a way to finance it, but I think there's a solution primarily to decentralisation funds towards local self-government units where then some of these funds would be used to maintain or modernise these unclassified roads. Because we need to know that with the increase in the number of vehicles and all that, that these roads are increasingly being used, and clearly we are not in the same position, it means on the continent, at least this part where there are fewer vehicles, where we have fewer incomes and less funds to invest in such roads than those that, for example, have higher incomes because of a larger number of vehicles and can be maintained in a much better way and modernised. This is about the problem of county and local rank is really big and I ask that this rule be amended, that county administrations be given far greater funds and what has repeatedly mentioned more representatives, to set valid priorities and criteria that will satisfy everything. I know that some still do well today because they have more cars or vehicles in their area and they are satisfied with the county administration's revenues and can do a lot of things, but unfortunately most of the county and county administrations are not in that position. I'll also say a few words about the highway because here we are constantly invited by individual fellow MPs to switch to highways, to reduce tolls, so we would be very happy to do so in Koprivnica-Kryzeva County but there is not a single mile of highway in the area of our county. Last year, a small part of the sub-Biogorje ipsilon arm was finally completed 12.5km after seven years of construction as a fast road. I would like that construction to continue, so it's the road to the Crosses, I would like to, and as Mr. Bauk said, I gently warn my government to make every effort to buy land as soon as possible and build the road further towards Koprivnica. And also to complete at least this part of the leg according to Bjelovar, which is already well built and built, need some more resources to complete this direction where it continues clearly towards Virovitica, which is also mentioned because you need to know that the whole part of northern Croatia does not have any modern or highways or fast roads. And then part of Koprivnica and Križevci County can be tied to that part, especially the eastern part of Djurdjevac and the surrounding area. And as counterpart Bačić said during the Kukuriku coalition from 2012 to 2016, simply that part of the country is somehow forgotten. As early as 2009, a contract was signed on the construction of this sub-region-Biogorical ipsilon, at the end of the seven years, to complete these 12.5km radius to the Križevci, the rest either didn't start to build or was in some phase of semi-completeness. There's always talk of no means. I know big debts for the previously built highways and everything else, but we have an example that the recently opened Hajdashiana and publicly boasts that more than 500 million kuna was invested in one part of Croatia here on the continent, see wonders exactly where the Minister of Transport came from during the Kukuriku Authority. So the funds were, we were skipped in those four years it's as obvious as some others because they were mentioned here and some bridges near Vukovar, etc., apparently some of the priorities of some other road became priorities. I hope that we will return to something that we have signed in 2009 and that finally, in any way, we will continue to build this sub-level-Biogorje ipslon because both Podravci and bilogors and this entire central and northern part of Croatia also deserves to at least get a chance to pay the toll, so if it is not then on the highway, it will be either a expensive highway or something else, but at least give us a chance to drive on the highway because we have no highways unlike most other parts of Croatia. As far as these changes are concerned, and the addition of the law, I welcome them, and I consider them to be of quality. Once again, they have absolute support, and I hope that by the second reading you will adopt this proposal to reroute at least these 10 limes towards the ZUCs because on the ground, it would be very helpful. And I stress that these funds really need and that I agree to be sharing without any political criteria but the number of vehicles, according to the flow, according to where these funds should be used the most. I know you can't build everything once, but still some fair distribution, I think we'd all at least be partially satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34773	Thank you very much. There's really a whole series of replicas on your display, so we'll take it in a row. The first is the distinguished representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34774	Thank you, Your Honor. He says a HDZ counterpart agrees with the amendments to the law, however, the gentleman agreed with the introduction of a real estate tax, agreed obviously with the fact that they would collect highways, he agrees with everything. It probably also agrees with the termination of the Croatian study, to stop enrolling students for the first year of the Philosophy Study, and now here it says agrees with these changes. What I'm saying is, whatever government proposal the HDZ gentleman makes will agree and so there is no critical thought, abstract thought, self-thinking. There's only a collective arm-lifting group that brings us all down together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34775	Thank you. The answer to your replica will be given by the distinguished representative Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34776	Mr. Chairman. The answer will be very brief. This really all that's said here has nothing to do with this subject or what I've been saying, but to Mr. Pernar, it doesn't make much sense to answer. He's opened here another five, six topics that would require a much longer discussion, and I don't think he's ready for such a debate, nor does he know much about it, but it's important to report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34777	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Ministry's representatives. Here I will look back on what you said that we are certainly all in this council for better quality roads, for greater security, for investment, but I am surprised at the attitude, not only of you, but of the members of the HDZ who today say they will support this law in order to decentralisation and encourage those 10 lips to be given to the county road administrations. However, in the proposal itself, the amendments and additions to this law say the funds to finance construction and maintenance will be limited. Now I don't get it. So we limit the funds and the next thing we know is that the limitation of the assets in question is due to fiscal consolidation. This means that the funds that we already have for maintenance today will be used by those funds most likely to repay debts because it is not enough just to increase the tolls but we have to subtract these funds. So that formula just doesn't make sense to me. All or most of you today on one side and on the other were talking about kilometers, about a plate of roads, and we also have a proposal to propose an association of county road administrations on a level means a republic in which to finance exactly the needs of county and local and unclassified roads. But from this proposed law, I don't know if the rulebook will show it in detail, but I don't see how it's decentralised. Is it decentralised because the funds have been transferred from the Croatian roads now to the ministry's jurisdiction i.e. Governments and then they're going to set up that money on some key. And that 0,10 Kuna or 10 lipa, are they going to be divided according to where they charge, so where there's more traffic, where there's more fuel consumption, where there's more consumption and then automatically and the roads so that there's more investment or there's going to be another key? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34779	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Fleak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34780	Mr. MP, these funds you say are limited by the amount in the budget, for this reason, to prevent excessive borrowing, excessive borrowing to mean funds in that part of the limit to know how much can be spent. I do not know if you were present here in the assembly when our representative spoke in front of the club and where he explained these 10 limes, where he said that in Article 91 would mean in paragraph 2 of the fee referred to in paragraph 1 of this article a liter of charged excise duty on energy and that amount of 20 kuna on the account of the Croatian highways, an amount of 80 kn on the account of the Croatian roads d.o.o. These 80 kunas would be distributed in a way that 70, 0,80, that 0,70 kn goes to the account of Croatian roads and 10 limes for the needs of ŽUC according to a special rule counting on the number of kilometers above all which a single county road administration covers. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34781	We'll get back to our wheel. We still have a series of replicas on the presentation of our esteemed colleague, Felak. The next replica is colleagues from Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34782	Thank you very much. Dear President, dear colleague Felak. Well, in one part, I would only correct you when you said that not all the problems started in 2012 but that was before. I agree with that, but here I will mention one question and one problem which has created a lot of problems and quite centralized the system and brought the unrest, and it is that the annual public road fee paid for the registration of the vehicle is now unfortunately on the list of parafiscal duties and as such is reduced by around 100 million kuna in 2016 by the decision of the former SDP ministers. So according to the Roads Act, this is a major and dedicated fee for county and local roads only because over 95% of these funds are used as direct investment in road infrastructure. This should be formed as a dedicated tax for county roads and brought into line with the needs of investment in this type of road because it also affects the annual cost of a vehicle of only 1%, the redundancy of the economy should be sought among the real parafiscal burdens because this is a very visible investment, so where almost the entire income goes into the road itself and cannot be called parafiscal impositions. Therefore, road compensation is not a mere parafiscal charge, it is a dedicated investment in the production of road infrastructure, although one Germany introduced a special road tax I believe it is also necessary to remove this parafiscal charge as such and in a different way regulate that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34783	The Honorable Representative Felak will respond. You won't, thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34784	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Felak, we certainly agree on some things, and here I come from Virovitica-Podravska County from my place to the nearest highway is 100km. We all pay the excise charge for the fuel, and for this reason, I was in good time when this change of the excise duty law was passed, where this part was reduced by highways and increased by Croatian roads, because I think that the Croatian roads in our region should have brought the fast road you were talking about as soon as possible. In that part, we totally agree. What, of course, is always some kind of campaign pre-election. I see it from local media in my county and should be to the end and sometimes honest though here are the local media in my county writing that it is exclusively and they can't know what to call it anymore... or how MP Djakić former mayor and Minister Tolusic are solely responsible for the northern bypass that is being built around Virovitica, and be careful, that northern Virovitica began to be built in 2014, the value is 118.5 million kuna with VAT, length of 9.1km. She's part of the future fast road Ormož-Varaždin-Virovica-Ilock. But when we talk about the fast road to the sub-level ipsion that story doesn't go, you know from Cynthia Hajdaš Dončić, it goes back in 2004, so in 2007, it was a historic government session, historicalally compared to Virovitica in Virovitica when that fast road was announced again, and then in 2009, we have a pretegorization meaning from the fast road that road turns into a highway, meaning this section from the knots of St Helena to Koprivnica and Gole length 86km in the highway A12, and the road from the knot... to Bjelovar-Virovitica-Terezino Polje length 86km in the road A13. However, given the amount of traffic, given the conditions and economic conditions in the end and generally the social conditions of residents, here are, for example, Virovitsk-Podravska County living hard to expect that they could finance the road. And I'm out of time, so I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34785	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Felak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34786	Dear colleague, I'm glad you agree most of my exposure. I support all of this you have said and it is true, I also said that this story in 2009 if I am not mistaken is a signed contract on the construction of an ipsilon that has been spoken of long before, whether under that name or partial of the road towards Virovitica and this road towards the Križevci and Koprivnica then somewhere in 2009 it began to be called the Podravsko-Biogorje ipslon if I am not mistaken and I am saying one step towards Bjelovar and teaching towards Bjelovar only for now according to Bjelovar one part built. And I absolutely advocate that the construction of that part is to somehow find the means and to end it as soon as possible because it's a shame that most of the road facilities on that road are built and that it doesn't end up done and let the road get much closer to Virovitica. And I also clearly advocate that it continue with the actions needed, the advances for further construction from Bjelovar towards Virovitica because, as I said, this entire northern part of Croatia is without a mile of highway or a half-way. And surely we would be very pleased to begin to think about the so - called “soon thing ” as soon as possible. I think it should be removed from the Slovenian border until it is planned to build Vukovar and Ilocka as either a highway or a peninsula, and I absolutely support it. Just plainly, it's all a matter of possibilities and resources, but let's at least finish what we started so that we can have a road at least to Bjelovar and it would be easier to get to Virovitica and the eastern part of Koprivnica County around Djurđevec much easier and faster to get to Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34787	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34788	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Felak, I have listened carefully to your debate and I can agree with you on many things, a team more about your proposal to sort of co-finance both county and local roads because I am from Daruvar. Our plates are really everywhere, but the town of Daruvar has absolutely nothing. You also have Daruvar tables in Pakrac, Grubišni Polje, no income, here are colleagues saying in Rijeka, but the motherboards are in Pakrac, Grubišni Polje, Grđevci, not to mention further. What ends, ends up in two ZUCs that deploy money at their own discretion, and I also like that initiative of yours anyway, and I would certainly support it if it were in any way in the debate. I've got to make a connection here. I've got to connect to the replica of my colleague, Sagar, to the Subravo-Bylvarian Ipsion. The ipsilon has become, I can say, an ipsylon case because I noticed that both you and your colleague, Žagar, missed the answer of Minister Butkovic to Kosor on the issue of continuing to build the road towards Bjelovar. You said yourself that you need to be approached justly by the number of vehicles, the flow. I can tell you that Bjelovar, that the flow on the belovar section is much higher than the hive. But it fits in the sense that one road will be built, redesigned documentation. I'm sorry that there are no Virovitica agents in position at HDZ to see how to comment on the situation and when you can expect a fast road in Virovitica. I'd like you to answer that question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34789	Here's a response from the esteemed representative Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34790	Dear colleague Babić, I said in my beginning that I would gently warn my government that with some things and priorities I simply couldn't agree on, and that's exactly it. I believe that this project, which was launched before, should be completed 8 years ago, and that it should be in line at the top and that some other projects should still wait. And otherwise, as far as these Daruvar registrations are concerned, I was really hoping that you in Daruvar suddenly started buying new and quality vehicles and that's why there are so many on the roads. Now you've let me down a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34791	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Felak, I am in yours, first of all, thank you for quoting and characterizing my proposal to conclude and treat the government as gently, otherwise it is not my custom, but you know how it is, it needs to be adapted. From your debate, I realized that you have a little too much emphasis on investing in the road in Krapina-Zagorje County and associated it with the fact that where the minister and the fact that the government is in that county is coming from is not just to keep the impression more in line with the real situation. So in the Split-Dalmatia County, HDZ has been in power for the 6th term. However, during the course of the Minister of Zagorje and the SDP minister, several significant projects have been launched, which has been completed. For example, the road, the fast road Solin-Klis after more than 25 years began in the SFRY which is actually descending from highway A1 towards Split, which, therefore, and of course the connection of Split with the rear. Then there is the road through Kaštela, which is not finished yet but is in the high stage of the state-of-the-art closure that connects Split Airport and the whole part of Kaštela, Trogir and further towards Sibenik. It is also during the term of office of Mr Hajdaš-Doncic. Then the trogial bridge, which is here and we see that there are certain problems, so I call on the government to solve problems with the viaduct as soon as possible, not to look for a new performer, who knows how long it will take. Then Dubrovnik Airport, Dubrovnik, i.e. Konavle municipality where HDZ is also in power, then Vrgorac-Ploče road, the end of the highway. Therefore, in other parts of Croatia there has been a lot of work to be done not only on what you said to be in... an investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34793	The answer to the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34794	My dear colleague, you have said this precisely, I would be most fortunate to have been built on the same criteria in my county. Let's say in the previous assembly of the Parliament when it was a coincidence of the government in the town of Koprivnica, which is one of the strongest SDP forts in Croatia, I believe, along Rijeka and some others. Here were three parliamentary representatives from Koprivnica, two from SDP and one from HSU. And in those four years, it wasn't built to mean a mile of any road or railroad towards Koprivnica, and I'm taking for evil your foreigners and the MPs sitting here in the Parliament. These projects you've listed are commendable. This means that people from these parts have been fighting for their end and have managed to fight for these projects, that these projects are being implemented in their area because we know that you're coming from these southern parts, so you've probably been involved in lobbying for these projects no matter what you're in different parties. Unfortunately, though, I can conclude that three Koprivnicans, i.e. one Koprivnican and two Koprivnicans, were sitting in this Assembly and the road had reached the Križevci. Maybe in the Križevci, they'll pick up some kind of memorial or declare one street or at least this highway exit their name, but unfortunately, the road didn't go any further than it is where it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34795	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34796	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Felak, we see that you are so passionate about the roads of "Hajdashians" and the former SDP governments, but there is also a road called "Kalmetina". Give it up when you talk about those street names by the ministers and remember. You have this Pelješki bridge, you also mentioned some bridges, who signed a contract that was annulled and damaged 250 million kunas to the Croatian budget and now we have to build on another building permit the same bridge in second place? Perhaps if those 250 million kunas had been preserved, it might have been for your ipsilon sub-level that you are so fond of mentioning. But in doing so, I'm asking you just don't let that sub-level ipilon be like that Istrian ipilon because it's the ipilon where the most expensive tolls are paid in the world, and yet the state has to co-finance it. So here's the Croatian state with 3.5 billion kuna co-financed by this ipislon and no use at all. So please, while you're at that ypsilon, give some other model to at least ask that when the concessionary takes all the profit that Croatia has to pay nothing. It would be very good then it might remain for some other parts of Croatia where it could also be invested whether the representative is from there or not, whether he is running a campaign for local elections or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34797	The Honorable Representative Felak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34798	Dear counterpart Bunjac, we have today on the Mandate-Immunity Commission had one request to remove your immunity from a private lawsuit where at least as stated in the complaint, and I remember that debate in the Assembly mentioned great crimes, large amounts. So if you have any knowledge of these 250 million kunas that some crime has been committed, I would ask you not to bring it out here in the House but to report it to the authorities to whom it is due to be reported. ... And that's your problem that you don't believe in institutions, I believe in the institutions of this country, and I think things need to be solved through institutions because it's the only possible thing in an orderly state, in an orderly society. [[You can't hear it.]] If you don't believe that, that's your problem. But then don't even bring up these facts, because I'm saying there will be more and then I guess she'll demand that your immunity be removed. As for the ypsilon, the concessionaire and everything he likes to say here by a colleague, a fellow former Prime Minister ther is no free lunch. So there's no free lunch. If we build something, if we build a road, we have to pay it off. We have different models. On the Istrian capital we have an example of concessionaires, and we see how much more expensive this road is than that toll paid on those roads that are in state hands regardless of this tiny collection that is happening these days is still a kilometer of highways much cheaper to drive on highways in Croatia owned by the Croatian state and not in the hands of concessionaries, which is precisely the best example of the Istrian Ipslon. As far as the Podravsko-Bilogorsko-Bilogorje is concerned, it is not intended as a highway now and there is no fee on it, even though I said that both highways and highways are built and that a certain toll is paid, I believe that people from those parts of Croatia would drive along that road and pay the toll just so that they could get to Zagreb as easily and quickly as possible or elsewhere in Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34799	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I followed your debate carefully, and to report to you on the replica, I was encouraged by your debate about the highways. And then you're saying that there wasn't a mile of highway built in your county especially at the time of the Kukurik government, and you mentioned 2009 and the signing of a fast road contract, or today's highway. As I recall, in 2009, that fast road construction contract was signed by Ivo Sanader about a month before the local elections, two, three months before he resigned, and two more years after that, the HDZ government had done nothing about it. And I'm glad you mentioned it, because it's just an indication before this local election that the citizens of your county of HDZ can't trust, that they're constantly cheating on them and that you've already cheated on them many times already. It means from 2007 to 2009, to today. Secondly, you also mentioned that a road was built in Zagorj Hajdasina precisely where the minister came from, and how many roads and kilometers were made in Zadar County where Mr Kalmeta came from and what is the worst road from nowhere to anywhere. In HDZ, you patented this way of construction, so here we have the bridge of the late Minister Vukelic, which is a bridge without road from nowhere. And imagine how many roads might have been built in Croatia, and so in your county if it hadn't been for FIMI Media, that the tunnels in Croatia had not been painted three times, that your head of customs with black bags had not drawn money from public companies, money from Croatian citizens as many miles of roads as you could have then. And don't say that the institutions are doing their job because institutions are doing their job on this issue, but other institutions that don't function in this country are constantly destroying the process. But give me what you need to be a little self-critical and real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34801	The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34802	Dear colleague, you have stated here clearly now that there are no real arguments then it is best to move on to the attack and mention these larger many times mentioned affairs that have their own court, which will ultimately get their own court epilogue. Now I'm supposed to start counting on you I don't know Marina Lovric Merzel, former Mayor of Vukovar Mr. Sabu, so the last affair that was about these diaries but that doesn't make any sense. The roads are a subject, right, but you've opened up these things that have nothing to do with the roads. [[Intruder: Roads are a topic.]] In this part, I said no problems in road construction with 2012 if you listened correctly. [[Intruder President: Please don't throw away.]] I mentioned the road to your minister, so I guess I won't do it my way. I hope so, and I hope that after the current minister's term of office we will not have any road that will be mentioned by him. But I hope if it will be that it will be well mentioned, and that we will all agree that this road was necessary then, so let it be called Olegiana, but if we all need it. [[Intruder Reiner: Please do not throw.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34803	Thank you very much. And now we have an individual discussion of the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34804	A colleague, Felak, where you mentioned Sasha Minister Butkovic, who comes from right out of his town. He'll be happy, I'll pass on a colleague, yeah. Otherwise I'm not going to attack like this, I'm going to do a little bit more midfield. So, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm going to stick to as many issues as it has to do with highway connections. For us islanders, it's the same thing, so I invite you to measure it because I'm sticking to the subject, so in that sense you let me do it otherwise someone else might not. So I suggested as an individual representative, I didn't want to drag this proposal into that club's conclusion. My colleague Bacic said something about him, but I'd like to explain it a little bit better in an individual debate. So this applies, and this is precisely said that we are not going to pay something from one item of the budget but from another and that this will not be paid by local self-government, which is financed by the moss by voluntary fire companies on islands and elsewhere, but by part by the state budget. It's not about some big money. And the point is, in fact, this law and all the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament to say that some part of the citizens will pay, and that they will benefit from the other part of the citizens. That's how the health system and the education system work, the cultural institutions work, and then this part can work, so it's just some kind of redistribution. Besides, the discount we have as citizens and on ferrys is someone else's pay. Retired people have free ferrys, too, and someone else pays for it. In this respect, it is not disputed, therefore, that the proposal for a conclusion which I have proposed, which is very gentle and mild, is therefore called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider and propose a legislative solution to ensure that the use of ferry lines for police vehicles, vehicles of armed forces, fire vehicles, ambulances and vehicles of the GSS would be evened out by paying for the use of highways and facilities on state roads in the manner provided for in Article 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads, i.e. to bring those two laws in line. That would mean it. So that the Law on Line and Maritime Coastal Transport is harmonised when this Roads Act is passed, and it is best to do so at the same session. It's the essence and meaning of my proposal. It is very simple in the explanation that institutions working on islands or DVDs from the island are working to provide them with equal conditions as those on land have. In the summers come firefighters from the mainland, and also our firefighters sometimes go to interventions over and of course it's good to be in the same status as their colleagues. This is, in fact, the largest part that would be accepted by not taking the conclusion but after considering the proposal to conclude that if the government analyzed this well, that would be the consequence. So here's what I've come from the last conclusion that I've suggested so much that something in debt has been learned, and this is how I have shown with a mild and gentle formulation of confidence in the government that after considering my proposal, at least in that case, my best decision will be made. I would like to thank Mr. Vice President for the tolerated understanding of the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34805	Please, please, you must have played the same card that I had something to do with the islands, but I understand how important it is for islanders as roads for those living on land. But we do have a few replicas on your exposure. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34806	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you are a candidate for mayor and have learned almost everything about roads in Split-Dalmatia County. You know the ones in the reconstruction, which they just need, which are already on their way to your government's mandate, so you're getting ready. Now this was one little pre-election trick like we're talking about the Road Law, and this is all you said is about another law, so you're pulling the parabola. And everything's fine, so we can say what we want. But the fact is we already have for ambulances discount, that discount for islanders is something that pays for what you said to some other citizens, but they also know the discount and some other means of transport in public transport. And in ZET you have certain discounts and in some other modes of transportation you have discounts and I don't think there's anything questionable about who's going to pay. They always pay the citizens. However, we wanted to hear from you from the SDP whether you are really abstentioned to this law and why it is so when it offers really good things and why you do not want to support this law and in the first reading, even in the second if we do what appeared here as an observation, but you insist on some other things that simply do not have too much to do with this law. This would refer to the Law on Public Coastal Transport and I believe that in this mandate and in this law we will amend it. First there are concessions on state ferry lines, and then discussions on what and how to offer the islanders in terms of now-prepared amendments to the Island Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34807	The answer of Agent Arsen Bauk, with respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34808	Mr. Representative, the position of the SDP club was expressed by a representative of the club in his debate. You're replicating him, by my assessment you've even made a smaller campaign for our candidates in Krapina-Zagorian County, but that's my assessment, and now you're working for me. Thank you. However, for projects in Split-Dalmatia County I knew long before I became, in fact, I have not formally become a candidate for mayor. Since 2003, I've been a candidate on the list in the 10th constituency, and I think I'm the only one who's managed to be there for five, six terms. Easy, there's time. So I actually wanted to say that you wouldn't connect those two things. So I'm relatively well aware of the events in my county both in the island and in the coastal and in the back of our county. And you were the mayor's candidate, and I'll try to get a bigger percentage than you got in 2009 or 2013, which was it. As for what you said, I realized that you would support the proposal for a conclusion, given that it was formulated quite gently and constructively, it would be an additional incentive for others and gentle constructive proposals on our part. And if it doesn't, at least I'll be able to warn you about it over the next few months as long as my parliamentary mandate lasts if I win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34809	All right, I'm not sure that my colleague, Boric, is happy with this answer, but the next replica is the esteemed representative of Peter Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34810	Well, here I am giving up the replica. I'll be gentle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34811	I don't know where we're going today. The Honorable representative is the same, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34812	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk, the amendment that you have proposed, is actually a proposal for a single conclusion which, as you say, you speak to the Government very gently, so you call on her to adopt a proposal that I must say was actually still in 1997 when the Island Act was passed, an integral part of that original island law. Then, in 2001, your Government of the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan changed and wanted the issue of land-to-island transport and vice versa to be implemented through a single law, which is exactly the law mentioned by his colleague, Boric, which is the Law on Public Line coastal transport, where prices and prices are then defined and the parameters that define the price and these parameters are defined by the very Public Line Coastal Transport Regulation that stems from that law. What I said in my presentation to you, and now I'm going to replicate to you, so in this past term, so in the 8th session of the SDP Club, if you remember and my composure Mr. Davor Penic has just hit the law, and he suggested that for transportation to the island and from the island, a free transport of vehicles to the sanity vehicles, so health homes, because there was already the possibility of free transport for emergency vehicles and then we adopted this amendment to also apply to the sanity vehicles, so the vehicles of the health homes where I was and then said that we would, we would only adopt the state with which it was not relieved but instead of the Ministry of Health, it would, or the county, be to pay for the Ministry of the Sea,... Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I believe that the two of us will have more opportunities to take part in each other's replicas like this, so you don't have to worry that you're going to leave Parliament so quickly, you're going to have a nice time here in these benches as president of the SDP Representatives Club still have a lot of opportunities to replicate us from the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34813	The answer to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34814	You'd say everything by the rules of the profession. It's up to me to say I'm gonna win and you're gonna say I won't. So, eh now, so I remember that amendment tabled by counterpart Davor Penic but he was voted thanks to the votes of MOST, you at HDZ were against it. The State Secretary, or current or then Deputy Minister, and we, too, were amazed to see what was going on. In the history of the Croatian Parliament, I mean the only opposition amendment that the government has refused to enter the bill. I'm glad, Mr. Vice President, that's exactly the law regarding the islanders. This also shows that sometimes we can cross these strict party borders and discuss and replicate quite gently. So, I also said in an individual debate that I advocate to do so that in this case it is not paid out of the budget of voluntary fire companies that are generally full of cities and municipalities but to pay out of the state budget but to consider it according to this proposal the government finds out which amount is about to be dealt with and to say, OK, there's a lot of money, it can't, let it keep paying but I don't believe it's going to be a lot of money. In that sense, I think with rhetoric and formulation I hit what should be done in this case. Well, here's my hope and support of the HDZ Club in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34815	Thank you very much. The final word will be the distinguished secretary of state at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Mr Tomislav Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34816	First of all, as far as Mr. Bauk's proposal is concerned, I cannot discuss it, but this is not the subject of this law, so we cannot accept it as such. This is regulated by line sailing laws, by the Island Act. These discussions will likely further explain what is sought and how. The relevant things in this law that have been discussed and the observations relate to mountainous and mountainous areas and to the criteria to be allocated these funds. We will develop and specify the criteria by which the funds will be distributed and the regulation itself will be passed after the amendments and the addition of the law. The second thing was mostly about the ZUCs and the way the ZUCs were financed. In parallel with the adoption of this law, restructuring of the entire road sector is being done. One of the points being discussed is the safe and way of financing the ZUCs because the ZUCs were put into a situation that with a billion and 200 million kunas as much as they had at their disposal in 2012, they now fell somewhere on the occasion of 700 million kunas of funding and those 20 thousand kilometers of indicative between 18 and 20, something was transferred to large cities, it is certainly not enough to maintain these funds available today. Two main sources of funding, i.e. The first major was in the vehicle registration, the second was from this excise duty on fuel that was reduced almost to zero. This will be taken into account and we will find a way of funding that county roads and roads of county and locals that maintain remain at an appropriate level, and that level of maintenance is also defined through working groups that, with the help of the World Bank, make regulations that define the level that these roads must meet. So these are the two main things we talked about. I think further than that, the comments on the others were not objections, but discussions were not necessary. As far as these details are concerned, they are definitely projects that we will continue to develop and implement in the next period. They're not stopped now either, but we're sure to bring them to an end in this four-year period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34817	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34818	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I can accept that you don't think that a conclusion can be accepted, but I disagree with the argument. So, I'm just in conclusion and I'm saying that this is a topic of the second law, so the Coastal Line Transport Act, and I'm just calling on the government to send the Road Law to bring these two laws into line in the way provided for by the Roads Act. That's mine, that's the taste of my proposal. In fact, you didn't actually respond to me on the scale. So, do you guys agree so we can do it in some form or not? So there are several ways that I can pass this conclusion in the formal part of it. I can propose an amendment to the Law on coastal line traffic, I can propose a thematic debate on the Maritime Committee, and then it is discussed. But this is the simplest way. So, when you're already doing the Road Law to bring it together at some point, you don't have to do it right now. I think it's the taste of my proposal for a conclusion. If you don't accept it, I can only conclude that you don't agree with the scale of what I'm proposing which would have been completely different. Then say the same thing, and then we'll discuss it. So, if you formally think this is wrong with this conclusion, no harm done, no harm done to you as a ministry. You don't even have to accept it by it to act first or last. But I'm interested in your point of view on the metrics, so whether or not you're driving the one that applies to the islands, and that primarily refers to voluntary fire companies, whether you're equal to those on land or not. So that's the only question I'd like to hear from the government's representatives or from the ruling majority's representatives, not from the formal parts. So this is the conclusion almost informal, and your answer is strictly formal and it makes me a little sad I have to admit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34819	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ljubice Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Secretary of State, here I am, at the end of this debate, I have to say something because a few people with disabilities were watching this debate in the morning, and they insisted, or they asked why no one in this assembly, and even I don't mention the problem of people with disabilities in this law. In fact, you probably know that the D.A.'s attorney for disabled people has on several occasions insisted that article 88 be changed because at this point, he kind of discriminates against people with disabilities. The amendment of this article to these amendments and additions has not occurred and I know that you couldn't do it now, I know what the reasons are, I know that the means to implement this part should also be provided, and I also know that there are technical reasons why these changes could not be accessed. Therefore, I ask you, since I have the knowledge that it will go into the adoption of a new Roads Act, please believe that there is enough time for this, so I ask you to develop all possibilities so that this article can be completed, modified or completely modified and in a way that those with disabilities and those who need it have the right to release from paying toll by modeling the release from parking spaces. So, by example, it's a sign of accessibility. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Mihotić: We'll make sure of that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34821	Thank you. The answer will be given by State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34822	We'll be sure to consider this in the making of a new law. Now a simple remark came late, couldn't even work out technically but we know what the problem is and we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34823	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And today we'll end up working on it, and tomorrow at 9.30 we'll start by discussing the amendment law and additions to the law on archival material and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 104. Have a good night! Session adjourned at 5:19 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-23-0.u34824	The following is the law on amendments to the Law on Roads, first reading, P.Z. No. 111. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act is adopted. Secondly, all comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 81 for, 36 abstentions and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Representative Arsen Bauk proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is called upon to consider and propose a legislative solution for the use of ferry lines of transport of vehicles from land to the island and vice versa for police vehicles, vehicles of armed forces, fire vehicles, ambulances and vehicles of the Mountain Rescue Service to equalise the use of highways and facilities on state roads as provided for in Article 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, P.Z. No. 111. During the debate, the applicant's representative did not accept the proposed conclusion. I am voting on the conclusion proposed by Agent Arsen Bauk. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes have not been adopted. Appreciated MPs and MPs, we begin the plenary session. Representative Alexic.
