ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47546	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am asking for a 10-minute break to discuss the announcement of amendments to electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47547	Comrade Glasnović, you're second.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47548	Chaos in the catastro.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47549	Chaos?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47550	Chaos in the catastro, in the land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47551	Okay. Comrade Voter, you're the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47552	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to warn of the need to involve deaf and deaf people in the making of the regulations on assistants in the classroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47553	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47554	Dear President, I demand a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club to discuss the current political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47555	You got it. Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Dear Ljubica Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47556	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to discuss the position of deaf people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47557	Thank you. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47558	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47559	Here we have seven requests for a break. We'll continue at nine o'clock and 50 minutes. It's 9:00.35. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] First debated representative Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47561	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, electoral legislation is a major problem in Croatia because there is not enough representation, voter opinions for reasons why much of the vote is failing. This is how it happens that a large number of Croatian citizens oppose GMOs, mandatory vaccinations, NATO and the EU. But their opinion in the Parliament is not represented by an electoral engineering that transfers votes to the great so-called so-called. big clients. It was also known that 2 parties with an equal number of votes get a different number of mandates and that is drastically. That's enough, for example. Comparing the real power of HSLS and HNS, where HSLS has always received much more votes than the HNS, but at the same time less mandates. It is therefore necessary to introduce more fairer rules and new statistical and methodologically correct electoral units. But these days, in an interview in the Vecernji list and Globus, prominent HDZ member Vladimir Seks reveals their true intentions. The party not only wants not only to democratisation the electoral system, but wants to limit it and introduce a bipartisan into the Republic of Croatia, better say one-sided, in which HDZ will remain in power over and over again, while the SDP is constantly on the opposition, with both parties essentially implementing a common policy in everything except for 2 records. Seks announces that the HDZ means to achieve this not only by amending electoral legislation, but also by changing the constitution where it would return the diaspora as a non-fix quota, which would double their number at least, the number of diaspora deputies. This specifically means that HDZ bianco would receive a minimum of 6 seats in each election, as the diaspora is known to be a replacement term for the BiH voters. The HDZ also requires that a majority electoral system be introduced according to which the party that wins most would be the electoral winner, that the electoral threshold be increased from 5 per cent to 7%, that it be banned before the electoral coalition, and that minorities be banned from voting. The HDZ therefore does not hide, nor does it hide, that the objective of amending electoral legislation is to eliminate from political life all political parties except HDZ and SDP, and by changing the law of the name, by guillotine for small parties. I repeat, guillotine for small customers. So, an esteemed colleague who is not members of HDZ and SDP, the HDZ is preparing you a guillotine. So we're going back to the time of the French Revolution and we have a party of HDZ and acubination and Vladimir Seks, the new... who will cut heads, so to us from small parties, very democratic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the person, Vladimir Seks, who, in her own time, declared that he could only negotiate with Serbs underground and later identify arrest, locate and transfer Croatian war heroes, would now want to suspend parliamentary democracy in Croatia. Although the said gentleman rarely has those views, the information he gives should not be ignored at all, since they are in those interviews, the gentleman presents as the ideologist of the main HDZ, namely the creator of the parliamentary majority. Therefore, I ask that colleagues from the HNS also be shown whether they are the creator of the parliamentary majority in the Assembly, Mr Vladimir Seks. In view of all of the above, and in particular with regard to the media attention given by the statements of the gentleman concerned, I call on all political parties and the public to oppose political unanimity, which clearly cannot evaporate from the heads of those who in one mind have politically raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47562	Thank you. Second debate, a respected colleague, Zeljko Glasnović, on behalf of the Advocacy Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47563	Dear colleagues, I think today, what I'm going to say is proof that we still live in the Croatian state, but in a country I call Croslavia. As far as the development strategy is concerned today, I think, the working group of presidents wrote about, obstacles to investment in the Croatian state. Croatia is also a special, special place on investment recommendations. Why? There's still chaos, not just catastrous, land books. And I get complaints every day from people who haven't solved their property issues, property returns. There's been chaos since the return from social land, translated into private land. You have examples where people have solutions, they can't resolve their status on land books. And there are not only former personnel, communist but criminal groups, so-called. The construction mob. And it's cancer of the early Croatian society, corruption, and it's the cancer of the wounds of all post-communist societies. But we haven't solved the question of land books yet, and 5% has not been introduced. You have not only an economic forum that is held every year here in Zagreb. And what I've been saying since... No one will come to a country where such chaos in the catastrophe rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have obstructions at all levels. In Zagreb you have protected tenants living there since '45. For years, people have killed themselves or driven them away, not yet returning apartments have other properties. They've reported the property to the public, it's a felony. We have Jewish heirs, Jewish properties that have not also been returned. We're looking for a return in '45. Until '48, '56. In the year Yugoslavia abolished co-operation with Israel, people are looking for a return of property. Croats, thousands of Croats haven't solved their problems since. When it's gonna happen, that crime scene and ex-humans. You've got people sitting here, ex-SCOY-Evies, who've won 13 apartments, for example. in Zagreb, never returned. That chaos continues and I don't see the end. You have a judiciary totally ineffective, we have I mean 1700 judges and hundreds of thousands of unsolved cases. We've got more judges per captain than anyone in continental Europe, it's just a statue. And until this is resolved, no one will come to a country like this where this catastrian and land chaos rules. In the end, I'd say this, what the state's attorney's been doing so far on these malfeasances. People built on other people's land, for example. Dubrovnik, seized by land, confiscated, was a robbery, legalized robbery of hotels. You have in Istria, they built nursing homes. You have a man who can't return his property and the dispute has been going on since 1993. And his land has been in the family for hundreds of years. And what's going on? ... These disputes last from a minimum of 4 years to 12 years. Slow justice is not justice and we can only talk about some kind of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] democracy until this issue of decommunisation is resolved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the key word. Because these frames that fool us here talk about democracy, they have two parallel systems, one is a system for them and the other is for other people who can't achieve their rights and wait up to 12 years to solve these problems. As far as Agrokor is concerned, here's the end when I say parallel legal system. How is it possible for someone to borrow $156 million from someone and isn't invited to this committee to testify? For example. Mr Valentić and others. And the octopus of the former marriage, the service of national security and former personnel is the cancer of the Croatian society's wounds. And these criminal groups. Look at the city of Zagreb, those facades that aren't fixed, what does that mean? These are unsolved property legal relations. They're people out there, people are aware of it outside, they'd come back here, invest, but no one's coming into this kind of legal mess. And until this problem of the rule of law is solved, I am primarily talking about land, I would only point out that 19% of the land in Croatia has not been returned to the right owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47564	Thank you. We're moving on. SDP advocates' club and respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47565	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago here on the assembly benches, the parliamentary representatives signed an appeal that came from the Croatian Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Persons and the Croatian Alliance of Deaf Blind Persons Touch. Somewhere around 60 MPs have actually given support to their appeal to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and in order to stop them, I will not say obstructive but does not go around making rules for children with difficulties, regulations on assistants in teaching and professional communications intermediaries. It is not something that is common for an association to seek the support of parliamentarians, in fact de facto in its legal form does not mean much but is not even forbidden, and they simply felt that we as peoples should and can address them in order to gain additional power. I will only remind at the outset that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities very clearly states that persons with disabilities must be able to be actively involved in policy-making and programme-making processes including those directly related to them. Similarly, this Convention guarantees people with disabilities that the Republic of Croatia will provide them with the education of persons, mainly children who are blind, deaf or deaf in the most appropriate languages and means of communication for individuals and in environments that encourage intellectual and social development to the greatest extent possible, and that it will enable them to exercise their right to a regular inclusive and educational system. However, their right to this move by the Ministry of Science has actually broken their education. The draft Regulation on assistants in teaching and communication intermediaries has been drawn up since 2015. So we didn't bring it either. In fact, none of the roof organizations of deaf and deaf blind persons were involved in its production, although these roof associations actually pointed to numerous illogicalities in its creation. But to this day, their comments remain unrespectable. I will only remind that the public consultation on this Regulation was opened on 1 June 2017 and closed on 30 June of the same month. The comment report has not been published today. So I am taking this opportunity to direct from this place on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I believe that some other clubs will join this on behalf of their representatives and representatives, that the Ministry of Science, Education, as soon as possible adopt a rule on assistants in teaching and communication intermediaries. Why? Because that rule should solve a number of open questions. We now have four years, using ISF funds. We have 90 million kuna for 2648 students with developmental difficulties to provide them with assistants in teaching professional communication intermediaries. So money's not a problem anymore. However, the regulation should be regulated in which way we actually suspend funding tomorrow when perhaps those funds from European funds are not available or not to the extent that we are used to. On the other hand, that Regulation should also be clearly defined as to what the obligations of the assistants are in the follow-up. Also professional communications intermediaries, i.e. whether the term of the expert-communication intermediaries for deaf people is actually the right term. That's what the association warns about, no one wants to listen to her. It only insists on using adequate terminology in the Regulation. And third no less important in which way children with developmental difficulties provide security in the education system, that today if they have one assistant, if they are bound to it, if they get used to it tomorrow, they do not lose it because there are no clearly defined rules in which they engage, which are their obligations, which are programs that they have to pass to feel safely trained to work with children with difficulties regardless of what difficulties they have been involved. So here I am asking you colleagues and colleagues, but I also ask the Ministry of Science and Education to complete the adoption as soon as possible, or to bring this rule. On the other hand, in the process of passing, try to sit at the table with representatives of the three roof organizations Deaf and deaf persons and include them in the process that should have already been done. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47566	Fourth debate of the club of representatives of the HNS and the respected representative Maria Puh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47567	Thank you, Mr. President. Here in my introduction, I would first like to look back at the debate of my colleague Sabine Vosovac. It is not true that the associations did not participate in the design of the regulations. They participated in the drafting of the regulations from the Office of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities, from the Community of Persons with Disabilities, the Croatian Alliance of Deaf Touch, the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Cities of Zagreb and representatives of the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty. And they agreed as far as the rules were concerned and then they let him go into e-consultation. What I especially want to talk about today and what I have to say is that it bothers me terribly. I'm listening to the debates of our agents, and we're literally acting like we're enemies to each other. I think it's about time we started dealing with concrete things and started dealing with things that concern our citizens. We need to start dealing with salary increases, rewarding excellence and the fact that the curricula reform itself is going its course. Education definitely has no alternative and I have to inform you and I have to report to the public that after four months after Minister Blaženka Divjak took over the science portfolio and education results are more than visible. As part of the amendment to the Law on Education and Education, which will soon go into public debate, an increase of 30% of the salaries of teachers working on EU projects has been ensured. We believe that rewarding proactive, motivated and entrepreneurial teachers is something that is extremely important for our students, and ultimately for Croatia itself. We are thus encouraging the exploitation of European funds and the absorption of money waiting for us. For 2018, the State budget of the Ministry has been provided with an increase in the budget that will be intended to increase employees' salaries in protest. As regards curricula reform, 33 expert working groups responded to proposals from the public debate and 12 were prepared and updated the latest versions of curricula documents. Three curriculas are in the English translation phase and will then be given these documents for revaluation, i.e. on an international review. I think it's the data we need to talk about, I think it's the things we need to deal with. At the end of this year, 370m euros signed for the centres of excellence to be built in the Republic of Croatia were unblocked. These money's been at our disposal for a while, but they've been standing and no one's taken care of them. The Minister made sure that money was used by us. As far as scholarships are concerned, the money for 3,000 new Stam scholarships has been secured. So our students will automatically enroll in the Stam Colleges and the Stam Areas will receive scholarships. So, it promotes excellence, it promotes success, and what I think is that we definitely need to turn to the future, we need to turn to concrete things, after all, HNS has taken responsibility for that. And my colleague Bunjc's message, these are your reasons, these are specific figures, these are specific data, which the CNS has contributed to by entering the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47568	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47569	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think a colleague has hurt Article 232 that I've been listening for a break, the subject of this being a promotional 5 minutes of Ms. Minister Blaženka Divjak, and everyone here has a right to announce it nicely. And promote your minister and tell her what's good to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47570	.../Intruder President: Fellow Voter, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47571	However, it cannot be replicated, but only for a moment, the colleague initially replicated something, not even mine, but accused these associations, the Croatian alliances of deaf and deaf and Croatian alliances of deaf people to lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47572	Comrade Voter, I ask you not to abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure, for I will be forced to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47573	I don't think I abused her.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47574	You abused her, you're moving into controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47575	If someone's replicating me, not to me, but to associations to lie, then I just have to react to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47576	I ask you to sit down, because this is a classic abuse of the rules of procedure on your part. We move to 5 discussions, colleague Ljubica Lukačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd say, first of all, as far as the position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, he's far better today than he was two or three years ago. As for the appeals sent by the Croatian Union of Touches and the Croatian Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Persons and the Croatian Sports Union of Deaf, I can openly say that I really don't understand why this was sent, what is the appeal for? All three alliances, they've had a conversation with me, on the subject of the above-mentioned problems in this appeal, which I would say simply don't exist. As for the regulations on assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries, I must say that the rulebook is made, that the rulebook is finished and that it will soon be published. In the making of the regulations, all roof organizations of persons with disabilities were equally involved, and so was the president of the alliance... So, the alliance of the deaf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like all other categories of people with disabilities. So it's incorrect to say that certain categories of people with disabilities are being bypassed by the adoption of a rule of effects, about helpers in the follow-up. As far as the term is concerned, an expert communications intermediary, I would like to say that the resolution itself uses the term intermediary, because it is not the translator of sign language a single mediator that is important and important for deaf, deaf and deaf. Such individuals should use the form of communication that responds most to them. What do we call those who write on someone's hand? A professional communications intermediary, and intermediation has several other types. Therefore, the term professional communications intermediary is a broader term than the translators in sign language and the regulations on assistants in the follow-up is also stated and are specified exactly the obligations they will meet, therefore, what the translator will do and what other professional communications intermediaries will do, as well as assistants in the follow-up for other categories of persons with disabilities. I'm truly sorry that we're talking here today about a problem that simply doesn't exist. The Croatian government has made it possible for the Alliance of Deaf Persons to articulate its problems in the best way, and the Prime Minister of Croatia has received representatives of the Dodir alliance, to see for himself whether the problems really exist. At that meeting, we shared the conclusion that there may be problems with preschool education. So in children who need to be involved in kindergartens. But next year, the problem will also be solved by amending the Preschool Law, and until then the local community has taken over these problems. Therefore, I must say that very few children of deaf and deaf are involved in kindergartens, however, are provided with translators and professional communications agents as they really need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47578	Thank you. And we are going to the final debate, on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47579	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Right now, let me say the Independent Lists Bridge will unanimously support the regulation's initiative to help deaf people. I find it totally inappropriate to help people with disabilities, in this case, blind, deaf and deaf, and then degrade the profession of translators who are truly helping these people. Extend agony, reduce the possibility of continuing schooling, cause exclusion from the society of these persons in a way that is used in the Regulation incorrect, inappropriate and nowhere in the world recognised term professional communications intermediary. Allow these people to change an honest legal aid literally one term, place a sign language translator, an interpreter for deaf-blind people if you want help. This is how you can help, do not play with the lives of these people and this initiative by colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric has come here and launched and collected more than 50 signatures of parliamentary representatives to the government of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, we saw last week, he was hired after an inscription on a thermal power plant in Peraqi fellow bacic. Of course, he is in his style able to transfer the bag from point A to point B in the Fimi Media case, but to tell the truth that the strategic project in the strategy that was voted in the Parliament is false. I'm the one who exhibited in this assembly, you're not Mr. Bacic. The strategy of spatial development is nowhere in the strategy of the Peruća thermal power plant nor is it mentioned, except in the MCC explanation where the owner of the husband is from our Deputy Prime Minister who is present here, which this criminal, mortal project for the Cetina region, the Peruće thermal power plants want to make, which is strategic, economic and ecologically unacceptable. That's a fact, I said it first. Before the appointment of Prime Minister Buric, that from the top of the government is suitable for this project and we know the reaction of your vice president, counterpart Bačić, Vice President Martina Dalic, where I did not even ask her, but I asked the prime minister if she was yours, Vice President of the Government i.e. his in conflict of interest, did his husband want to impose a monster that has a 100-foot high chimney, a 10-foot wide, and who wants to blow up 700 kilos of toxic gases. 120 of you voted for it. I took part in the debate, and I repeated this, and there's no way to explain it. The only place to be listed is on the map where HDZ's head of municipality where Vis Viva is the project, where he is also the owner of the husband of Minister Buric, who had offices with him in the municipality and who has favored them to board, which is why he is only in one form and is not mentioned anywhere in the Croatian Development Strategy. It's a fact, the only complaint that was refused because Mr. Buric gave it afterwards. And now he wants to portray me as the man of the people of Sinj and the province of Cetin, who was the first to point out, to whom he was threatened, a colleague of Grmoya is a witness. Which pointed out that the conflict of interest of 10 billion kunas at the top of the government, two vice presidents are tied up, it's normal for you. Karamarko, the consulate case is zero for this. I speak publicly, and the people of Sinj and Cetina oppose. You can demote me to my colleague Bačić, you and HDZ. Why don't you mention Mr. Šipić, who lives on the river Cetina, his house is 6 meters from the river Cetina. The most important thing in this case is the Committee on Strategic Investments, it makes a decision on what strategic investment is. And we're waiting for the environmental impact study. That's the important thing. And not this strategy that's basically not being implemented, and where it's not mentioned anywhere except for what your chief, Dinko Bosnjak, who was as a parliamentary representative here and who lobbied the project. And who should go through the county and be lobbyed by the county. Has there ever been a voice against the Perun thermal power plant until I came to this House? As Parliament's representative of that end. It's the strategic most important resource, drinking water, you can hit me, throw me out, and mud in front of the people, but the people of Sinj and the Cetina region will never, ever let them build the Peruca thermal power plant, my colleague Bačić, no matter what you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47580	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47581	Thank you, Mr. President. Injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. My colleague Bulj insults and disrespects other MPs. So he calls me out to nothing because the vote on the strategy he didn't read is neither the first nor the last document that counterpart Bulj didn't read... Therefore, fellow Bull, I tell you [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić.]] I didn't do anything to make you vote on something you haven't read. [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić.]] And you now because he didn't read, he insults me, Mr. President and other HDZ representatives, which the public noticed he raised his hand for a document mentioning a potential location... [[Intruder President: Comrade Bačić.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47582	Comrade Bačić, I beg you now, therefore, there has been no violation of the Rules of Procedure in the presentation of my colleague Bulj. Here you go, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47583	Also a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. A colleague demeaning other MPs, he mentioned a colleague of Šipić who, unfortunately, is not here but I'll just say for a moment. Cetinjans say Bulj speaks, Šipic brings money.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47584	Okay, and you have also abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so this is already a violation of the Rules of Procedure which has been misused, and I beg you, we have a colleague Bulja, probably he will hurt the Rules of Procedure, I ask you not to do this because from now on I will share the warnings and second time after the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be taken away. No, it will also receive the Bulj word, but use now all the violations of the Rules of Procedure for Replication and this is not correct and systematic and willfully violate the business provision. So, another fellow Bull, here you go, then there's warnings, and secondly abuse will be taking away words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Infringement of Article 238 My colleague Bacic said that I did not read the strategy, yes, I read it, from A to Z, and so nowhere is the strategy mentioned in the text section not mentioned. The only thing that was put in place to draw, and that's the Croatian municipality where you lobbyed well for the project together with the mayor and the mayoral leaders, and nowhere to be mentioned as a strategic project. The only thing the Croat community drew, and we know who's in power, that's the truth. And if I hadn't read it, you can see it because I've been arguing ever since, so you're lying and cheating on the whole public. Intruder president: come on! And this isn't FIMI-MEDIA and the transfer of money from point A to point B. Thank you very much. [[Invader president: colleague Bulj!]] [[Invader president: colleague Bulj!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47586	Comrade Bull, come on, please. Okay. A colleague of Bacic's. Come on, please, let's act in accordance with the rules that we've set for ourselves until we can determine them. And until then, I ask that we be correct and respect the Rules of Procedure. Dear MPs and MPs before we continue to work, come on, I have some important news, not news, but one piece of information dedicated to a circle of very noble people, so please listen to me. Today, October 25, each year is marked as a day of voluntary blood donors. On that day, 1953, the Red Cross organized a voluntary blood collection in Željezara Sisak. So allow me to save all these noble people who selflessly donate a part of themselves on a daily basis a large number of people's lives as well as institutions that care about them and congratulate their day in the name of the Croatian Parliament, all MPs and MPs!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47811	I see the Honorable representative of the Thunder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47812	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I request a break on the obstructions and machinations carried out by HDZ in order to stop the work of the Assembly Research Commission of Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47813	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a break on the subject of the Agrokor Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47815	Thank you. What? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47816	I'm sorry, but I'm asking on behalf of the GLAS and HSU club also on the same theme break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47817	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47818	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47819	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47820	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss a new version of the history of the Homeland War directed by HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47821	Thank you. Dear Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47822	Thank you, Vice President. So we're looking for a break from the HNS club on the same subject, the issue of the Agrokor Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47823	Thank you. Another club? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 11.55.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47824	On behalf of the club of the Independent Lists of Honored counterparts of Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47825	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we didn't have a vote last week on the inclusion of new points in the agenda, and Friday we weren't here too much in the assembly. Vice-President Furio Radin announced Wednesday's vote, which would mean that the vote would include new points in the agenda. But here we are this morning and there is no vote. You know why there's no vote? Because on Friday, I addressed the procedure to amend the decision on the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee, which was supported by all opposition clubs and one representative of the ruling majority. If all these clubs were behind it, it would be 74 signatures, or 74 hands in the Parliament. It is obvious that the intention is not to get into the agenda, that next week we are very likely not to be in session and the moment is waiting for what HDZ is looking forward to and what they are calling for, that then they say the commission by force of the law can no longer work. So after months and months to agree at all to the parliamentary investigative committee now obstruct his work, they are obstructing and searching for all possible ways to keep this investigation committee from coming. And I made a concrete proposal. After all, we didn't elect a vice president of the Assembly's investigation committee. There was an agreement at this first informal meeting that a change of decision would be made to the parliamentary procedure. No one sent her, so here I went to this initiative, to collect signatures, and that was the task of those who voted the commission, to make an amendment to the decision. It wasn't made to show what the ultimate intention was. The intention is to hide the full truth of Agrokor. And what's interesting about me is that Vladimir Seks also agreed in his latest interview, the main ideologist of HDZ, the creator of this majority who encouraged HNS through certain checkpoints as he says. I hope those aren't judicial checkpoints. Says Shakespeare: “All other circumstances related to the design and functioning of Agrokor could be explored. Facts that go beyond the scope of criminal activities. I, of course, am not an adviser to the opposition, but I would still advise them to propose establishing a commission to investigate the functioning of concerts like Agrokor, what was the political government's attitude towards him, what was the relationship of the banking system, as various governments were being set up. With my proposal to amend the decision within which I removed this point concerning the quality of financial reports in the Agrokor concert, that is exactly the kind of decision you have from the HDZ, or from most dedicated. You just need to put her on the agenda now and we've got it all sorted out. I'm glad that I agree with Vladimir Seks once, so if you're going to listen to him as you listened to him in the formation of the parliamentary majority, and when a man has played such a key role in encouraging over certain checkpoints, let's now listen to him about this and this means putting him to the vote, vote this decision and start with the work of the Assembly's investigative committee. And as for your intention to put an end to the parliamentary investigative commission, the only one who can, and therefore you will suffer serious political consequences can this Croatian Parliament, which voted in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. It cannot stop working otherwise, so I expect that if you drag us this long to guide that decision, this proposal in the procedure, that we discuss it and then vote and that everyone in Croatia sees that HDZ and their coalition partners from the HNS whose leader also had a Ledo box in his apartment, that they also tell the Croatian public that they do not want the full truth about Agrokor, that they do not want to know which people are responsible. And I announced at the first session of the commission I will go out with documents that will shed a new light on what the executive authorities did, or what the executive authority did in the case of Agrokor and what seemed to be the rest of the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47826	Let's move on. Dear Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47827	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on this thesis, my colleague, Grumoja, that HDZ is obstructing the work of the commission. If you were a colleague of the Thunder Commission, there wouldn't be. Namely, I will remind you that you did not support the establishment or appointment of the commission. So you wouldn't even think of him. We at HDZ claim that the commission can work. I don't know what the media president is doing. He presides with the press commission. He's sending messages on behalf of the commission, and that's decisions that no one has authorized him to make. Decisions to which he will call without the commission making that decision. He's being threatened as chairman of the commission to file criminal charges. He can, as a citizen, as well as counterpart Petrov as a citizen, and not as Parliament president, file a criminal application can also be a criminal application by counterpart Orsat Milenic as a citizen. But as chairman of the commission, criminal charges can be filed at the time when most of the total number of present, of the total number of members of the commission, will decide. So I don't see the reason, and I'm calling the chairman of the committee waiting. Did you bring the Rules of Procedure? You're not. Have you determined the dynamics of work? You're not. Have you prescribed who you're going to invite to the commission in any way? You're not. You've had a commission for 15 days now, and yet the chairman of the committee has not convened any other sessions except one session. Why? I ask the question why? Because the question is when and if a solution is confirmed to open the investigation. I don't know, maybe the County Court refuses a solution to open an investigation and the commission will continue to work. And nobody gets in the way, especially in HDZ, we don't stop the commission from working. I call on the President of the Committee of Mr Orsat Milenic to call on the Commission and what his colleague Grumoja is saying, to continue his work. But my colleague Grumoja, you know it very well, and you all advocates of MOST and other opposition parties, not having a vice president of the Committee, that doesn't stop the Commission from working. In the event that the President of the Committee is prevented, he may be changed by the Vice-President but the existing decision proposed by the SDP's Club of Representatives, not by the HDZ, because the SDP Club was the proponent of the decision to set up the Committee, that by mistake, by confusion, by failure, by forgetting, and by proposing to the Vice-President, it is not up to us, but what has been forgotten, is that what you are proposing is now to be included in the agenda and without what you have proposed and what you are asking the President of the Assembly to put into the agenda, you can debate at the Committee, make decisions that are in the works of the Committee, and that is why it is not the Court of Representatives of the HDZ. Also, until the solution to the investigation, if it's confirmed, I'm saying again, if it is, I don't know if it will be, until then, you can discuss both balances and everything that's written in the decision itself. Although the County Court confirms in Zagreb, then, according to us at the HDZ Club of Representatives, the ex-legation Committee stops working, there is a clear Article 4(2). The law on investigative committees that speaks if a question, for which the Commission was established, is opened by a judicial procedure, then the commission ceases to work. It does not say in the law that no special decision should be taken by the Parliament, but by the basis of the law, by the power of the law, it automatically ceases to work and the Committee at its session should conclude, given that the judicial procedure in the case is open, again I will say that it would not prejudge anything, if such a decision is taken and confirmed by the County Court in Zagreb, then the Committee, or members of the Committee, will conclude that the basis of the law ceases their work because a judicial procedure has been initiated. We at the HDZ Club don't know what circumstances the investigation is open and even if they did, so we don't discuss it at the Commission, but why not at this point the state's attorney has opened an investigation, that doesn't mean that for 18 months as long as the investigation process can take place, that there are no issues that the Commission would now be discussing in this case. Therefore, here I am ending Mr. President, the club of HDZ Representatives, neither obstructs nor intends to obstruct the work of the Investigative Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47828	Thank you. Third debate on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47829	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I don't see what the dispute is in here, and now my colleague Bacic has made it very clear that if a trial is opened possibly on a subject, then the Committee on the subject stops working. Therefore, judicial proceedings may be opened on criminal liability, but the commission's task is not to determine criminal liability. The commission's job is to determine political responsibility. The commission can't punish anyone, put him in jail, none of that. So, the Commission was set up just to look at those elements that may not be a crime but are a matter of political responsibility. And in those areas where the Commission eventually reaches one point relating to criminal liability, it is clear that it is taken over by judicial institutions, so police, justice, etc., but they cannot establish political responsibility and cannot address the issue of political responsibility at all. For us, however, as the most representative body in the country is a political responsibility in this case, a company that had, therefore, an absolute monopoly, a company that was obviously tied to politics, a company whose leader today claims to be a conservative Christian. What does that have to do with anything? So he's calling for some political identity and he's suspected of falsely showing up not to say, embezzlement. Maybe a fake display of financial data. So he's trying to defend himself with some political qualification. It is obvious that the issue of political and political responsibility here is a very important and interesting issue, and the Commission should not enter into criminal responsibility even if the judiciary has done so. Anything related to criminal responsibility, let him prosecute the judiciary. But the judiciary cannot deal with political responsibility, only Parliament can do so through the two institutions of the Commission. We need to say that this whole debate was a public scandal started six months ago. I knew from the first page of the newspaper that said that Ivica Todorovic was in London when she left the 5th morning scary action in his house because everyone knew that he was not there, so obviously there are some problems waiting for 6 months, that something could be started in which everything could be hidden, carried away, cleaned up, etc. Clearly, there are some problems for which such a parliamentary commission is needed. I repeat, not for criminal responsibility, it's a matter of justice, but for political, absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47830	Thank you. Fourth in line, SDP advocates' club and respected counterpart Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47831	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. We've come to you on this same subject. I think it is clear to all of Croatia today that HDZ does not want to discuss, obstruct the debate, that it is not in his interest, that certain answers are simply heard and that this is what we see throughout chronology. The question could even be asked whether HDZ colleagues from certain checkpoints received information, when criminal persecution and all because they resisted for six months. If we had established a commission when we proposed it and when it was here for discussion, the commission would have already ended its work. So the question arises for Mr Bacic and HDZ, which is why they have obstructed half a year, launched the commission and waited for us to get into a situation, so that they can now interpret how they respond that the commission cannot work. So it's clear as day, that HDZ did everything to stop the commission, to keep doing it. It is clear as a day that it also uses certain points, which obviously also serve HDZ as a support column. It is clear as a day that this commission is the most unpleasant and therefore Plenkovic avoids it because of HDZ, due to Martina Dalic's involvement, Zdravko Marić, Ante Ramljak and those who are now in Agrokor, it is clear as day. And our citizens must be aware of that. We will use every opportunity as a parliamentary opposition to warn each day. We will publish all the information and I invite Croatian citizens and all those who know something, to speak freely to me, I will use it here every day in the breaks and speak. Everything I learn, as I learned in the report of the HANF, or the Financial Stability Council, is already being warned in 2016, Mr Bačić, in 2016, to the problems that exist in factoring business, while your minister said Agrokor was an excellent company, and already in 2016, HANFA warned, all of these are data that we will continue to publish and on which we will confront HZD, to see that HDZ is politically = Agrokor, economically, that this has come from one another, that all companies are privatised during HDZ governments, until 2000, either during Sanader's government, when the minister was also Mr Bačić. [[Don't throw it away, please.]] Since 2004, meaning everything related to Agrokor has been made important during the HDZ government. And then it's clear why HDZ doesn't want a debate. But now another step further, so who knows whether or not it overlaps with the decision regarding the committee and the DORH procedure. Does Mr. Bacic know that? Does anyone from HDZ know that they would now claim every day that the commission will not work and on this side of me is a much more relevant statement by Mr Cwitan, who claims that the commission can work. I trust Mr. Cwitan more than I trust Mr. Bacic. Well, I believe that in this matter everyone trusts Mr. Cwitan more than Mr. Bacic. If he claims there's no reason for the commission not to work, Cvitan, DORH, why does HDZ and HDZ Representatives' Club claim to have? How is that possible? How they have better information than having a state attorney, who said the commission could continue to work. Or they have information again with some checkpoints, which is a special topic that needs to be processed, where Mr. Seks said one scandalous thing, which is that they have influenced and this is a commission topic investigated in the Croatian Parliament, as well as which checkpoints and Shex over those checkpoints influenced the president of the HNS, the secretary of the HNS, to change the decision on coalition with HDZ. That's the real question. Were these judicial checkpoints, were they economic financial internal checkpoints, perhaps energy, that's a matter for the commission. How did Seks and Plenkovic influence the HNS to change the decision overnight? The commission will also propose in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47832	Thank you. We are going to the 5th debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA, the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47833	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian public and Croatian history have a unique view that the actions of Bljesak and Storm were honorable actions of destruction of Greater Serbian aggression and the simultaneous release of Croatian territory. Until yesterday, we were all agreed that leaving a part of the Serbs from the so-called Serbs. Republika Srpska, was organised by people who could not reconcile with the existence of a modern international recognised Republic. However, members of the Knin HDZ very important branch, therefore, people on the ground, are reporting that the first president of HDZ and the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, has evicted Serbs from the Republic of Croatia more than ever, that he did it for a reason, and that it was his dream. So his dream was to emigrate Serbs from the Republic of Croatia. So, we're amazed by the claim that HDZ members have in Dr. Franju Tudjman is the same opinion as the ruling Serbian politicians who do not recognise the legitimacy of the actions of Storm and Flash. For this reason, I ask the HDZ to declare whether this is a new version of Croatian history that will eventually enter into school textbooks or befavor and also a criminal offence. Do such documents publicly published serve to announce the reading of the verdict of six Croats from BiH who are charged with a joint criminal enterprise that will be published on 29 November this year? In view of the seriousness of the matter, and I repeat once again, the publicly available document created by the ruling party from which too many issues remain, I ask that the HDZ here in the Assembly be made clear of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47834	Last debate, a respected colleague, Batinic, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47835	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, it has been expected that the Commission will finally start working and now it turns out that we are reopening these topics and that someone is obstructing the work. I would just like to remind you of what I spoke several times from this pay phone, of course in response to the request for a break from certain colleagues and colleagues, precisely for reasons then very clearly I say, the position of the CNS on whether or not the Committee needs it. We accepted as everyone here, we don't mind that I would like to mention, at the last stop, that I was here at the end of the last sentence, and I told the President of the Investigative Commission, Mr Milenić, that what is waiting, why does not he start working. We heard a lot again today from the lists, I would just like to mention, there is a law on research commissions that very clearly in its articles, in its points speaks when it begins, who can, and how and when the Commission should stop working. Whether it is a political responsibility, whether it is a criminal responsibility, we are aware that this is a political body and that we want to investigate political responsibility, but then proposers go ahead, change the articles of the law or what is expected of us who are here in the House of Representatives to read this law as it says. I will suggest, here is my proposal to all of us I want you to support it, we have a parliamentary Committee on Law, we have a parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, I see no reason why it would not be the subject of these two committees, so that they interpret Article 4, which says, "If a judicial procedure has been initiated on a matter for which research was previously established, it will stop working immediately." There is no clarification further. I find it strange and believe me, most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we are the ones who pass the laws. And alone, some of us, I'm sorry, some of us want to break them. He would therefore suggest that the Parliamentary Committee on Legislatives should also be made clear on these proposals by some colleagues and interpretations, whether criminal liability related to this and political responsibility can be particularly distinguished. I'd love to hear it. Otherwise, we still don't have a problem with that, and I see that Mr Milenic, the President of the Investigative Commission, is obviously only communicating with the media, giving statements, and I don't know why he didn't call a meeting of the Committee. Namely, that's what he asked me... That's what I'm asking on behalf of a member... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Adversity President: A colleague, just a little while, Col. Milenić, I ask you to behave politely.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47836	You're not here at all, you're not in the assembly at all, now you get in there and you start yelling on the side, please behave yourself. There's a way to do it and you know it very well, and don't act the way you're doing it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47837	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope you'll respect me for 30, 40 seconds. I'm asking that for a reason because my colleague from the club who is a member of that committee is eager to begin work. Thank you, fellow Milenich. Furthermore, what we are particularly interested in in HNS is the future of this company. The primary future, these are jobs and how this crisis will take place when and how and how it will be resolved, how it will reflect on the overall Croatian economy. To these lunches and those structures of certain colleagues on the subject, was mentioned and was mentioned by our former Parliament colleague Shakespeare, who I met once a year in the Victims' Square, I invited him to coffee in our party, he did not accept, with a smile he did not accept, for certain reasons, I do not know which, however, these are fictions and imaginary structures. Unfortunately, behind this pay phone, we've heard such fiction many times, and I'm not going to use a more difficult word, but the fact is that unless they're denied, every time it becomes true. So this time, I very clearly deny the structure that agreed here with the passage of the HNS overnight, that's not true. That's the topic we've been talking about for the last six months. Maras, you had your chance. For the past 6 months, a party body such as the Central Committee, the highest body between... It's made two-thirds of the decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm removing all speculation and fellow Maras, if you don't understand anything, you can ask me, I'll be happy to answer but I suggest you don't make up and tell lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47838	Keeping Working Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47840	Respect, I request a 10-minute recess due to the state of affairs, due to the dysfunction of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47841	Okay. Do you let your colleague Glasnović give the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47842	I'm letting go, General, of nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47843	Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47844	Dear colleague like this, everything we've been discussing here these months, it comes down to one thing, we hear, values, morals, etc. So I think why are we looking at the current situation, why are we where we are now? Here... The Indians, the inhabitants of ancient Egypt, had more developed spirituality and moral... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Education than we do here now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that? You have ancient Egypt, it weighs heart, the sinners go there, they go there to death in the plows of the Water Horse, and the others in the Nirvan, and what we have here, which is the root of all this. Why are we... A moral ethical code? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do we have a picture of the Prince of the Trees how so? I worked for 10 years in law enforcement, in Canada, simple laws, the administration was professional. I learned, as a soldier, that every meeting produces action. Where is this action in these months? Why don't we have night courts simple laws, is there even in the Penal Code, when we talk about conflict of interest, what's conflict of interest? Is the conflict of interest to the past committee, where former staff, UDBA, parties, discuss the past. That's what I said before, so much so that the gypsies of the gypsies are investigating themselves. What are we talking about? Everything we're looking at today, about the consequences of something. It means confiscation, nationalization, so you have 1,000 mass graves, no DNA analysis. The Americans are coming here for two airmen. And we fear and talk about the rule of law, etc. How come this one, where the rabbit lies in the bush? In this rabbit that we, totally killed that, in most nations, this spiritual intelligence and moral instinct were killed. Here's some people laughing here, whose bosses robbed state-owned companies. It has one here character and another head, some have escaped here. What about them? Who's coming for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47845	Thank you. Is there no answer to the replica, or is there no reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47846	Mr. Glasnović, dear colleague, I long to answer you. And I try every time you replicate me to catch something and it escapes me. So many topics actually run this, that it's impossible to answer. Look out, that's a miracle. And this question, in which rabbit lies a bush, I can't answer that I don't know what kind of rabbit I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47847	Comrade Pernar, can I ask you something? We still have one replica, colleague Shucker, and then we'd... He can't, Shuker can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. And if we have to have a 10-minute break, or if we can. We can move on right now. Okay. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47848	Dear ladies and gentlemen. That Croatian institutions don't work, we all know that. So there's no need for further explanation. But I'm going to give an example, something that I don't know what else to call it, but by trading privileged information. What was that about? Ante Ramljak, before passing the Lex Agrokor itself, even a month or more before, meets with representatives of Nightshade Capital, means this vulture's fund. Why does it matter? It's why, at that point it was irrelevant, what, who's Ante Ramljak, the law doesn't have, we don't have a Commissioner on Agrokor etc. However, the important question will later be raised, because we never found out who wrote lex Agrokor or lex anyway, lex Todorovic. But later we learned that this same Ante Ramljak, who negotiated with that Nightshade vulture fund, later became a commissioner and went to the hands of that fund that would actually get, or, in fact, make twice as much as he invested, unlike all other Agrokor creditors, who would lose, at least 80% of what they invested. So the logical question is why did Ante Ramljak go to talk to the representatives of Nightshade Capital? Now, maybe they were talking about weather forecasts. Maybe they were talking about, I don't know, sports, Davor Shucker, no matter who. However, there is a high probability, and I suppose it is obvious, that he went to talk to them, precisely on these vulture loans, i.e. their roles in the future opening up of the Agrokora situation. And paradoxically, although it is billions, literally billions, although it will only profit the vultures from America, the work and torture of the Croatian people, and Croatian producers and workers lose, no one question whether Mr. Ante Ramljak had any privileged information. Whether he knew anything before other actors in the whole story, nor was it questioned how, as he would say, he would dare say, he was even in conflict of interest. But personally, I have experience that I've been called from at least that's what people who sit behind my back, from that, I won't call the agencies but I don't know what to call them, the Committee of Conflict of Interest. To ask me, Mr. Pernar, is it true that you've charged for, say, going to a club or something? And Mr. Beus Richembergh immediately caught that detail as these scavengers and he completely drew attention to the being and the essence of the matter are these billions that will pass through Croatia and that the commission is doing nothing and that the commission is dealing with trivial things while ignoring important things. The bits ignore it. And so is the entire Croatian state. So if you have two grams of marijuana, you'll be screened as a drug dealer, etc., and if you steal billions, then you'll be texting the Prime Minister, you'll be texting him like this over a blog, and he'll say, "Here you are, you're what you are, and so on." So this is one shame from the work of state institutions and unfortunately it's not Mr. Beus Richembergh's fault, it's just the whole people, the people don't understand the essence, the people get the details. The people do not realize that the aim of an example of a picturesque cartoon is to point to the absurd and paradox rather than to question whether something is ok or not and whether I am doing it or not. But the goal was to point out the problem that the commission deals with several hundred kunas and does not deal with billions of euros. That was the goal. And so I say, all these state institutions were working in the same way as the commission, smuggling the extra kuna, tax administration, and Todorovic, who paid for years of non-existent profits and did not pay any profit tax with it, was not dealt with by any state institution. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has nothing to do with it. This is all a circus, a show, and this is a dust throw in the eyes of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u47849	Okay. Now we're going back to the replicas. We now move to the 1st point of today's agenda: - Proposal for a National Strategy for Development Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2017 to 2021. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and on Article 6 of the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid and abroad. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, the esteemed Maria Pejcinović-Buric to further explain the proposal. Here are the vice presidents and ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54341	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed and esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. National strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017/2021. the year has been prepared in accordance with the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. Upgrading the previous and first National Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in this way defines the national policy of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance as one of the key components and important instruments of its foreign policy. International development policy is an instrument that helps developed countries in efforts to reduce poverty, strengthen institutions and boost economic growth. In foreign policy development cooperation can also be the first step in establishing more comprehensive, political, economic and social relations between developed and developing countries. Through development cooperation, we promote our own systems of value and political order and bring economic and social standards into line. As a result of such efforts, we open the door for political partnerships and support in international relations, we open up opportunities for economic cooperation and new markets for our companies and give our society new opportunities, knowledge, cooperation and exchange of knowledge and experience and technology. In just over 2 decades since its independence, the Republic of Croatia has passed the path from the country facing aggression, the Homeland War, the humanitarian crisis, we have been the recipient of development aid, we have passed the post-war reconstruction and recovery and democratic transition. By joining the NATO Alliance and the EU, we have joined a group of the most developed countries and also the largest and most influential donor in the world, which stands out more than half of the global development aid. It is important to note here that by increasing its gross national income in 2011, Croatia has exited the support group and has become an exclusive donor. The position of the Republic of Croatia in the global framework of development policy has been determined by the size, capacity and challenges of the new donor country. But also with the post-war transition experience recognised by the Republic of Croatia as its added value and with the help it will have the opportunity to contribute to the global development community by a proportion of relatively greater than the countries of similar external political influence and economic scope. Conscious of our comparative advantages but also limited resources and the fact that by encouraging the development of security and stability in other countries, we also ensure our own development, stability and security. In particular, through the framework of its development cooperation, the Republic of Croatia will seek to promote mutual interdependence and coherence between peace, security and development. In this context, the Republic of Croatia will advocate a comprehensive EU approach to transforming conflict into dialogue through early warning, conflict prevention, timely response to crises and their management, early recovery and sustainable recovery, stabilisation and peace building and state, and strengthening resilience to future crises and disasters and long-term sustainable development. When planning and implementing the policy of international, development and humanitarian assistance, the Republic of Croatia will continue to follow internationally established principles, paying particular attention to respect for the principle of solidarity, justice and humanity. Equally, development cooperation and humanitarian assistance will continue to be based on the principles of transparency, efficiency and orientation that will seek to further reduce dispersion and the increased impact of the aid granted. Finally, in order to ensure the full engagement of the partner country, we will insist on the mutual responsibility of the recipient at the beginning of the planning and implementation of the development programmes, which brings both partners out of which they are mutually empowered by new knowledge and experience. Accordingly, we will develop partnerships with international organisations that can most effectively respond to crisis situations. In line with the principle of policy coherence for development, the Republic of Croatia will further promote interinstitutional cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a national co-ordinator of international development and humanitarian policy, and institutions that have an impact on development and humanitarian policy. In fact, national policies such as trade, migration or security have a significant impact on development policy and changes in these policies. They may have a positive or negative impact on the progress of developing countries. The same number of ministries, offices and agencies in Croatia have knowledge and experience that directly conveys their own projects to interested developing countries. Therefore, as a platform for national coordination, an inter-resor working group on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance will continue to act as a platform for the exchange of views on the harmonisation and proposal of strategic decisions and guidelines. However, for the comprehensiveness of the action of national development and humanitarian policy, we also consider cooperation with extra-institutional partners such as the private sector, civil society. Among the scientific community teams, religious communities, etc. In this respect, we will continue active cooperation with both international and national civil society organisations under the Civil Society Platform for International Development Cooperation. Furthermore, through roof organisations and associations of economic operators and direct communication, the Republic of Croatia will strengthen cooperation with private sector stakeholders, with whom it will exchange experience and information on investment opportunities in developing countries, and consider new opportunities for cooperation in development projects such as the possibility of cooperation with the banking sector with regard to lending of such activities. Equally, co-operation with the scientific community will focus on developing and enriching educational programmes in the field of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance, thus improving the knowledge and interest of this policy to the international scientific audience. Croatia has an advantage in international development policy as a rare and established donor with a recognised niche. More specifically, with its own experience of war and post-war democratic transition. This specifically means that we have our own practical knowledge, for example, of establishing a system of demining, development, resociation of defenders and the like. In addition, the recent role, the recent role of the recipient, allows us to better understand and respect the real needs of the recipient. These experiences have been sought and appreciated in the global community and are already being passed on to interested countries. However, as a new donor, we face certain challenges such as limited funding, legislative and administrative capacity. Taking into account the above facts in the National Strategy, we have chosen and set priorities for the Croatian development cooperation policy which are divided according to sectoral and geographical coverage. Sectoral priorities have been selected according to the criteria of efficiency of their own knowledge and experience in global frameworks, experience so far in implementation and existing capacities, focus on the main preconditions of development, and compliance with fundamental national priorities. In line with the above, Croatia will focus its development policy on three sectors. The first sectoral priority is the dignity of every human being. Croatian development cooperation and humanitarian assistance policy will be a guideline to human development, its dignity, rights and well-being, as well as the development of human abilities and the achievement of full potential regardless of gender, status, membership, belief or place of residence. The Republic of Croatia will target its development policy with the fight against poverty towards the ultimate goal of strengthening dignity and political, economic and social inclusion of individuals who will be satisfied with their lives and roles in society and thus contribute positively to the development of their environment. Special attention will be paid to education, health, and the protection and empowerment of women, children and young people. The second sectoral priority is peace and security, and the development of democratic institutions. A conscious of the far-reaching and long-term consequences of the conflict with the aim of reducing the differences of outbreak, spillover or restoration of conflict, the Republic of Croatia will point to the importance of timely recognition and action on the causes of the conflict. In this regard, we will focus on investigating the cause of the conflict, finding a suitable programme to contain them, and through scientific research and promoting the truth about the Homeland War, countries facing similar experiences, we will offer knowledge and experience in addressing challenges. In this regard, as a country with immigration and immigration experience, and especially as a country faced with the issue of refugees and exiles during the Homeland War, and as a member of the EU's external borders, the Republic of Croatia will continue to highlight the importance of finding quality programmes to combat the causes of migration at their source. We will stress the importance of effectively curbing all forms of radicalism through education on humanistic values such as respect for human life, equality of all people regardless of religious, national and other belongings, equality of men and women, education for peace, pluralism and tolerance. By respecting the local context in development cooperation, we will seek to offer experience and knowledge in the area of state building aimed at strengthening inclusive political and economic institutions that will promote the rule of law, proper governance and fundamental human rights. Compared to strengthening institutions, the emphasis will be placed on strengthening economic capacity, particularly strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. Special attention will be paid to post-war transition, as well as to help EU accession, where we particularly consider important, Croatian experience to be passed on to candidate countries and potential candidates for EU membership, but also to countries covered by the European neighbourhood policy. The third sectoral priority is responsible economic development. Building sound foundations for the development of society depends on the establishment of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economic environment, which will be based on corporate, social and environmental responsibility, which is freed from corruption and which respects the local context. The Republic of Croatia will seek the economic empowerment of partner countries as an important boost to the sustainable and sustainable progress of a crisis-resistant society and natural disasters. As a country based on responsible use of resources, protection of natural and biodiversity conservation, the Republic of Croatia will install a component of environmental protection in development programmes, particularly with regard to responsible economy, tourism, agriculture and fisheries, sustainable production and consumption, and the protection of marine eco-systems, as a general public good. Accordingly, in cooperation with the private sector, opportunities will be considered to support the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship, lifelong learning for entrepreneurship and financial literacy, as key skills of women's entrepreneurship, knowledge-based economies, environmental protection and revitalisation of the economy after the conflict, especially in terms of tourism. We will encourage creativity, innovation and exchange of knowledge and experiences. In the sectoral, national strategy, we also set out geographical priorities, which have been identified in accordance with the state's shown interest in co-operation, the usability of specific Croatian knowledge and experience, the present experience of cooperation, and the overall interest of the Republic of Croatia in strengthening overall cooperation. Therefore, the first geographical priority is certainly Southeast Europe, within which the Republic of Croatia will pay particular attention to project co-operation with the following countries, Albania, Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia and Serbia. As a programme country, I would especially like to single out BIH, historical links, immediate neighbourhood, high degree of association between societies, cultures and economies, and the role of Croatian people as one of the 3 constituent peoples, are key reasons why the BIH is among the main development priorities of the Republic of Croatia. The BIH is in the next EU neighbourhood and is a very important factor for the stability and final integration of the entire Southeast Europe into its membership. For this reason, the Republic of Croatia has a strong interest in supporting and helping the BIH in political, social and economic development that would bring it closer to EU membership. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia provides assistance in the field of education, health, culture, institutional reforms and harmonisation with EU legislation. We are helping to strengthen civil society, strengthen young people, restore and build and encourage small entrepreneurship for the social and development of the private sector. The support of the BIH is aimed at developing a whole society with an additional emphasis on the Croatian people as the main driver of systematic pro-European reform processes and guaranteeing the survival of the multiethnic BIH. In order to stop and make its development cooperation in BIH more effective and to best respond to the development needs of the BIH, the Republic of Croatia, will develop a multi-annual development programme to gather all development activities. The development programme will be developed, implemented and supervised in cooperation with the relevant authorities of the BIH. These will be in line with the EU's development efforts, as well as other donors active in the BiH. This will also open the possibility of development partnerships with leading donors in the country. Another geographical priority is the southern and eastern neighbourhood, which is followed after Southeast Europe by the next Croatian interest ring, which is of security, economic and political importance not only for the Republic of Croatia, but also for the EU. That area, because of its geographical location, is a bridge between the EU, Africa and Asia. In this respect, this region is an important part of the debate on security and migration issues, as well as a partner with high capacity to develop economic relations. Within the wider region of the southern and eastern neighbourhood, the Republic of Croatia will pay special attention to co-operation with the following countries, Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon and Syria. More extensive, programme co-operation in this region will focus Croatia on 2 programming countries. First one's Jordan from the south neighborhood. Jordan can be singled out as an example of political stability that has a positive impact on economic and social development. Jordan is a neighboring common destination for refugees from surrounding crisis areas. So far, development cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Jordan in the area of peace and security has shown significant positive effects and strengthening cooperation, will bring benefits to both countries. The second programming state is Ukraine. Ukraine's geographical position makes it an important partner for co-operation between the political East and the West. It is about the EU about a significant country in terms of political and security instability, and the current political security and economic situation in Ukraine is known to the Republic of Macedonia. For this reason, the Republic of Croatia has already contributed to the reduction of the consequences of the conflict, particularly through the transfer of Croatian experience in the peaceful reintegration of knowledge and experience in joining the EU, and through the provision of humanitarian and development assistance including through projects to build an institutional and legislative framework for the management of care for the evicted and avoided persons of mine action and humanitarian demining, as well as psychosocial assistance to victims, protection of cultural treasures, training of doctors in the treatment of post-traumatic stress, and the rehabilitation of defenders and others. The third geographical priority is developing countries. Co-operation with these countries, the Republic of Croatia will have the opportunity to carry forward its own experiences directly but also to open up opportunities for further development of mutual cooperation on the political and economic agenda, fostering development cooperation with countries such as Afghanistan and Tanzania, and will help to expand development cooperation beyond the narrow regional sphere, and will ensure openness to countries that show the need for Croatian experiences while co-operation with Colombia opens up the possibility of other forms of political and economic cooperation as well as mutual exchanges of experiences and cooperation in other developing countries. The specific sectoral and geographical priorities as well as the principles of development, cooperation and humanitarian assistance have been listed so far. Furthermore, in order to achieve these priorities and to make our cooperation more effective, we have been guided by the following concrete objectives. In international donations and projects, we will promote interdependence of peace, security and development as a prerequisite for progress. We also want to promote the visibility and value of the experiences of new donors as well as the importance of our own experience in development policy, in which we will promote and use our own experience of democratic transition. We intend to strengthen political and project cooperation with partners in Croatia in particular with the economic sector, civil society, academic community and institutions and thus strengthen their knowledge and capacity to participate in development policy as well as withdraw funds from EU external instruments, which is also one of the most important objectives of the government's action. We consider it important to strengthen public awareness of the importance, advantages and our niche in development policy. Finally, we will work to further improve the legal, administrative and budgetary framework for a better and more effective implementation of the development cooperation and humanitarian assistance policy. This is what we want to make a further step towards the establishment of the Republic of Croatia as developed countries and donors with a clear vision that helps others and thus meets its own priorities. Finally, several concrete data on the current activities of the Republic of Croatia in international, development and humanitarian policy. Since 2011 since our exclusive donor, Croatian institutions have implemented over 1300 development and humanitarian projects. Of which, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has implemented more than 80 projects. In BiH alone, Croatia has implemented more than 500 projects since 2011. In 2016, for example, Croatia allocated a total of 279.5 million kuna for official development aid, representing 0.08% of gross national income. It should be noted here that the EU as the largest and most important global donor has committed to total 0.7% of gross national income by 2030. We can see this as an opportunity to promote our own experiences and capacities through this form of cooperation, meet foreign policy priorities and strengthen our visibility in this policy. The greatest visibility and efficiency are achieved through direct bilateral projects in developing countries. Croatia thus built, renovated, trained and encouraged entrepreneurship in BiH's key partner, built schools and libraries and encouraged women's entrepreneurship in Afghanistan, treated children from Iraq, trained mine action in Colombia in Jordan, shared knowledge about the construction of sustainable tourism in Tunisia, taught doctors about the treatment of PTSD in Ukraine, and assisted in the pre-accession process in EU candidate countries. In addition, Croatia is an active partner in numerous multilateral projects and initiatives within the UN, the European Union and international organisations. Thus, the EU's Trust Fund for the Colombia is financially supported and support is being prepared for the Joint Fund for Africa, which is rooting for the issue of illegal migration. In this context, too, we are considering financial participation in other EU initiatives and funds such as the Economic Resistance Initiative and the European Sustainable Development Fund. Finally, Croatia regularly helps the needy population in numerous humanitarian crises around the world, for example in Macedonia and BiH, Iraq, Syria, etc. Finally, the National Development Cooperation Strategy for 2017 to 2021 is the result of successful cooperation between a number of bodies, NGOs, economic associations and scientific institutions. We therefore believe that this document will be a good guide and a basis for further development aid to be even more concentrated, more realistic, more efficient and visible in the international community. The plan is to focus our activities on better aligning economic and foreign policy objectives in the next period. Following the adoption of the National Strategy, the implementation programme will be adopted where we will focus on key projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Southeast Europe and other priority countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54342	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We even have nine replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54343	Dear lady, you talked about how the Croatian state serves or promotes peace, the value of human life, I dare say even freedom and I don't know what values. However, at the same time as you propagating humanitarian aid and I would dare say you are showing our country's foreign policy as some archytype of Mother Teresa, the Croatian state sells weapons to Saudi Arabia, which makes aggression to the poorest country of the Arab peninsula, it is Yemen. Hundreds of thousands of people are starving there. So the humanitarian situation is a disaster, and you, looking closely at your profits, sell weapons to Saudi Arabia in the same way that Croatia sold weapons in Syria, means the same way. Not to Syria, of course, but to countries that passed that weapon on to those who cut off their heads, push and throw people off their roofs or simply shoot them in the back just because they're not part of their sect or whatever. So the Croatian state is supporting conflicts with its weapons, conflicts in which people are always suffering, conflicts where on the one hand there are more or less naked people, and on the other hand there are either terrorists or the worst form of terrorism, which is state terrorism. That's what Saudi Arabia does. Your behaviour here in the Parliament reminds me of that example of that book by Dr Jekyll Mr Hyde, where it means one person has actually two personalities and it is essentially like the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54344	Second replica of esteemed colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54345	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honors Minister. In fact, this Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid requires the creation of a National Strategy and Development Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and it has continued since 2013, 2017 and now since 2021. And I'm glad, maybe you didn't particularly stress the change in the paradigm that it's not really about development aid anymore, it's about development cooperation. This reminds the Chinese proverb "You shouldn't give a man a fish, you should teach him how to fish." However, it may quietly slip through something that is mentioned on the way, which is actually the experience of the Republic of Croatia over the past 25 years. And it's very important when you look at that transition from one political system to another system, one imposed war, one aggression that happened, a breakthrough in that war, then the reception of a large number of refugees almost half a million, and thus the organisation of health schools, education for all these people, once again a peaceful reintegration that lasted three years. And after that, the adaptation of legislation to the European Union, which should certainly have been mentally adapted to the citizens of the whole situation. It's a great remarkable and significant experience that we have to use as a small country today in the world and we can and get praise from many, so here's what you mentioned Jordan. What I would like to emphasise, and I'm glad you mentioned it, is our neighborhood of Bosnia and Herzegovina, opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This development cooperation must be stronger, it must be intensive, everyday especially because of recent recent events and those that will happen in the future, and we need to endure strongly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54346	The third replica of a respected colleague, Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54347	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. The Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister mentioned correctly in her presentation that other stakeholders such as civil society, religious and scientific organisations or businesses, private sector, are participating in international development cooperation today. You also mentioned that in order to implement the development policy of the Republic of Croatia effectively, there is government coordination which will continue to function. But what interests me is whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plans to create a permanent platform, so the emphasis is on a permanent platform of relations and coordination with civil society or with the Croatian economy in order to import their interests into development policy. Because it's not good enough that we're just looking for the help of civil society when we have a concrete project and we want to implement it abroad. It should have one permanent cooperation and receive that input from these components of society on a continuous and systematic basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54348	The fourth replica, dear colleague Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54349	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. Here is the strategy when it comes to sectoral priorities in the part concerning the dignity of a person in the area of empowering women and women. In one very summed part, it mentions the help of victims of sexual violence. I am particularly interested in what way, or was there an idea of how to operate that goal? And I would actually like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2015, this House passed a Law on the Victims of Sexual Violence, which, in the Homeland War, was actually extremely well rated in international institutions in which they were very positively expressed... etc. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Then she is a minister, then Minister Pusic is actually and this government has left good foundations that Croatia can be much stronger and much better profiled in this area to help victims of sexual violence and that it could in some ways become one of the recognizable forms of development aid Croatia is giving. There were also talks with the European Commission on the subject at the same time. So here's if, I'd like to hear what you're thinking about, if there's any idea of further building on those foundations. And of course, it may still be worth mentioning that this law was interesting, among other things, because it was fully implemented by the Istanbul Convention, which was not ratified at the time, but here soon comes our tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54350	5th replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you as head of foreign affairs along with the President of the Republic and all other factors should work means on the policy strategy, you have read them here, they are all very important from security, trade, economic, humanitarian. However, as far as the measures are concerned, our resources which we have are water, air, agriculture, food production, energy to be used in development as development potential in the Republic of Croatia and not to us, in fact, we are in a position to pay foreigners subsidies and that our young people are going to Ireland for this reason. So I'm asking you one particular question, water as a very important resource, and we know that we have a great potential of water, how much you've taken to make our water go to the market because it's sad that foreigners come to our sources like that. in Cetina for a very small amount of money. How much have you taken action to protect the water we need and not damage the presentation in the world and that we charge it because we know it's more expensive than oil? And what do you do about pollution because you and your wife are from the owner of the Vis Viva thermal power plant project, how much damage will the Republic of Croatia do to that thermal power plant, and who is the investor? You should know as foreign minister, we know that Mr. Buric owns the project but who is the investor who will take 25% of Croatian energy or 1000 megawatts. Here are these questions you answer me because I believe if anyone knows it, you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54352	Replica No. The sixth respected colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54353	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I listened to your presentations which, in a good way, were, in one good deed, usually a list of very nice terms. Among other things, you talked about security, dialogue, conflict prevention, strengthening responsibility, sustainable development, solidarity, justice, humanity, resolving the cause of conflict, dignity of every human person, etc. However, this theoretical exhibition of yours has one very serious defect, which is your practice because Croatian governments have been doing so for the past few years, and here is the time when you have a mandate to illegally sell weapons in therefore war areas. First of all, I think of Syria and Yemen where war crimes are committed among other Croatian weapons. And you know it very well. It has already been written in dozens of articles in both Croatian and foreign press. And not only have numerous war crimes been committed, but Croatian weapons end up in the hands of terrorist organisations such as al-Qaeda and Islamic Caliphate. So I think this is about a very, very big and serious step that you should answer urgently. Among other things, because Croatia thus violates the UN arms trade treaty and also violates domestic Croatian legislation. I think it is high time that Croatia did something about this and, above all, made clear about the allegations that have been published in so many places and so far you have not spoken a single word about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54354	Replica No. Seven respected colleagues, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54355	Thank you very much. In your debate on international development cooperation, you stressed the importance of foreign-political objectives that should be consistent with the objectives of our economy or the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. But I don't see much of a link between what we internationally participate in certain activities, especially in this part of the assistance that you have highlighted here and our economic interest. I don't see what kind of interest we have in these countries you listed, you said Jordan, you said Ukraine. I even think that because of the situation in Ukraine, we may be at risk of some part of our economic interest because we see that we have a problem in solving economic relations with Russia. And then it happens to us when our president goes on an official visit to Russia to have a very rare situation for someone to come unannounced, here's experienced diplomat Miro Kovac, to have someone come to an unannounced meeting with the president of another country. It's very rare. But here's what happened to us in Russia. And I know that people who are in diplomacy, thank God there's a lot of these cases rarely meet. So it also shows the relationship of these countries to us because of some of our activities related to other countries. But what is particularly bothering me is that you mentioned helping in education what I support poor countries, or children from poor countries, but I do not support that at the same time we plan to spend billions of kuna on buying aircraft from developed countries while our children in Croatia have secured transportation, while they do not have all provided textbooks, while teachers earn below average, we cannot do this and I hope that this is not part of the development cooperation that the HDZ Government is also planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54356	Thank you. 8th replica of respected colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54357	Dear colleagues. Minister, like this, I used to say that 20 times, the point of politics is human policy. I don't know about your exposure there's something called a learned lesson, I'm a soldier for most of my life, and these money lessons are applied on the ground what we have in Croatia. This is where we talked about EU regulations, etc. You have hundreds of legal regulations every year. But ours, to whom we can teach anything here if we haven't taken care of our yard in terms of ortacical capitalism, the dysfunctional system, we know what the judiciary is, corruption, the gray economy, which is up to 30%. I think it's our problems, it's our internal problems. Until we figure out how we're going to survive in a globalized and digitalized market. Today I was talking about alien land. And corruption is not only the cancer of the Croatian state but all other postages of communist societies. What's he doing about it? I would like to sit at the table once and we to perfect this centralized planning and determine what the priorities are for Croatia. But I've said before that in a country like this is now about investment, where capital investments are for Croatia, where this legal framework is. These are our problems. I don't see who we can share any experience with. We do not yet have in Croatia or the Museum of Homeland War. We don't know what happened here ourselves. People are coming, I was up in Dubrovnik on Srđ and it's embarrassingly worse that it's left to a local community down there who doesn't care at all what happened down there from the 1990s to the '50s and so on. As regards alienated property, etc. And we got rid of her. In fact, why are we afraid of those words of decommunization? And how they could sit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the people who were in that system and work for the Secret Service, the Service of State Security. when those services were killing the Croats outside. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] That's what people out there see. And until that's resolved, we're gonna have some serious problems. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54358	Thank you. Nine last replicas, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54359	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Pejcinović Buric. So here's what's mostly in some way and the goal of this strategy is to set up such a relationship between the donor and the recipient that they become partners, to leave this relationship. You have shown through these sectoral and geographical examples what is really the essence of the strategy. What is mentioned shyly in the strategy, and I find it extremely important to have the experience of the Republic of Yugoslavia at the time, which is the Movement of Unclassified. And then ideas that are still mentioned in the strategy were presented, and above all that is mutual respect and the principle of supporting democratic development. The truth was, there were a number of countries with suspicious characters who were dictators. However, these countries still face problems today especially when we talk about Libya, Syria or other countries that have to transform and pass that part of the story, which is mentioned very well in the strategy, which is 25 years of experience by the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I think that the strategy should make that period more prominent, not to be ashamed, because I think I say that there were various characters, but that movement itself marked a historical part and I think it was worth mentioning in this strategy a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54360	Thank you. Then we move on. So do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear Miro Kovac president of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Oh, no? Then I'm opening a debate. The first one was answered by a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54361	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The development aid strategy and humanitarian aid, although these are two different things, but both play an unequivocal role in profiling foreign policy, i.e. I think they are one of the most important and potentially effective instruments of foreign policy. They are often suppressed and neglected because they may not have a momentary effect, but in some medium-term frameworks they can potentially produce very positive effects for one country in a whole series of dimensions of economics that are most often mentioned which is of course very important, but also one that seems even more important to me, which is building an international reputation and the status of a country, building what is called the image of a country in some more modern language. And depending on the image especially when it comes to small countries, the country's influence in international organisations is changing significantly. This may seem amazing at first glance, but it is fundamentally changing how much the word of a country is worth in different multilateral and organisational organisations, as well as initiatives and projects. So, with one-time projects, even when the interests of the country are at stake. So, in order to defend your interests effectively, it's very important what reputation, image, what image you've created about yourself internationally. In this respect, development aid and humanitarian aid and the entire development aid project play a major role. The concept or the project and its objectives are also strongly reflected in internal policy. It should not be fooled that foreign policy is in general, and particularly in this dimension of development and humanitarian assistance, something that is completely separate or that has little to do with the country's internal policy and situation, it is reflected very strongly on how we see ourselves as a society. So, what kind of society or society we are in this case when it comes to concept, what kind of society we want to be, and through that are projected and the values that we represent as a society. And in the concept of development aid, without further ado, we transfer the values we represent internationally de facto to ourselves as domestically, therefore, domestic policy. One prerequisite that this or any more broader concept of development cooperation, could be humanitarian aid, could work is the law in which we have started to work, unfortunately we have never implemented it through Parliament, but it has been practically completed and which is very important that this could be done at all, which is a law that allows, not only in the way that our officers or soldiers can cooperate and participate in international missions and that high civil servants can, therefore, people who are in the apparatus, and they are expert on certain topics, I don't know, from what I know, from irigation to health issues. And the people of civil society, to participate in our international development aid. At this point, we actually have no way of sending representatives of civil society who are one of the very important, especially in crisis situations, in countries that are either war or some kind of conflict or crisis in part, very often where the state cannot reach. Civil society can be reached, therefore, by representatives of civil society, but at this point we do not have a legal opportunity to do so. So, to send and to support representatives of civil society who would, in such a case, participate or high-ranking civil servants who have specific knowledge of some area and are not soldiers, whether they are police officers. So that's one question and one recommendation, that it would be very good in my opinion to remove that legal obstacle and pass that law so as to expand the circle of people involved in this. One of the objectives set by the minister in her opening presentation is to create a catalogue of knowledge that we have. I guess in the first row it refers to knowledge related to institution building, post... The resolution of conflicts, the post-conflict construction of institutions, where the whole EU concept has helped us significantly, but this is also of no further use for non-European countries and they have no intention of entering the EU, but they intend to have functioning institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have used these European experiences, however, they are of course, especially filtered through one country such as ourselves, significant and without further use. However, as far as I know, this catalogue of knowledge is largely already made. So, we have prepared one of these types of knowledge catalogues within one project that have been implemented by the UN and my question here whether to use this knowledge catalogue that has already been made, of course there can be added additional things, additionally new experiences, but within that UN project, we have created a catalogue of knowledge and useful experiences. I warn of one difficulty, which is when it comes to the fact that these knowledge needs to be transmitted in fact, it is very difficult to get people who have these skills either because they are in the civil sector, in the private sector, at the moment, or because of the absence of this law that enables government officials to participate in development cooperation in this way. It's very difficult to get people who will actually go there and share those experiences. We've been doing it with, say, law enforcement officers, they've been going into this kind of thing very often, but there's been some help in the fact that it could somehow be regulated with the police, so I think this law is important and we need to use the catalog that we have. It is also important for us because 2 aspects, which may not be highlighted here, are very important, but different by nature and by the goals that the country can achieve. One is bilateral cooperation. In bilateral co-operation, Croatia directly participates with another country in a development project or intervention in a humanitarian crisis. The second situation is co-operation with international organisations. There are, of course, the key UN, but they are not alone, the UN has reached its goals of development, the goals of sustainable development, so... which included 17 I think there are, which included a very broad circle of developmental cooperation opportunities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For Croatia either, we have even one of these goals managed to define ourselves in this context, I mean target 16, but within that it would be very good for us to fit in and somehow take care in collaboration with international organisations to fit into these strategic development goals. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we had a center of excellence which was a place where they gathered from both civil society and state apparatus of experience transition, building institutions. What's up with that? Is that still there, what's going on with that? We had in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture the Croatian house. It is not direct, it is not development projects, but it could be linked to them since projects from culture de facto promote some kind of positive image of Croatia. We had a platform of civil society, therefore permanent cooperation with the institutions of civil society that was absolutely valuable and in many of the situations that my colleagues mentioned here, in my opinion, not sufficiently familiar with the actual facts, was exactly what civil society was through which it could not be through state institutions, through which humanitarian and development of co-operation could be established, but in particular humanitarian cooperation. In my opinion, Croatia has significant advantages in development cooperation. And first of all, we're small enough not to endanger anyone. Given the history of development and humanitarian cooperation, this is a big plus and this plus should be used and put into action because very often development cooperation has been associated with different ways of using an ancient word, with imperialistic goals. So, through development cooperation, he actually imposed his own political interests and some kind of domination. In the case of Croatia, this is not a problem and therefore cooperation with Croatia I think it has an additional advantage. And another of our additional advantages is a post-conflict experience. We have survived a post-conflict experience that many say is sometimes more difficult than the conflict itself. Now, some colleagues have mentioned here and there is, of course, it is not unjust to mention it, which is to be able to convey their experience and their knowledge, the result of this experience must be positive. So you have to have good institutions, you have to have functioning institutions, like the protection of human rights, you have to have effective protection of different types of minorities. In this respect, as you can see, internal and foreign policies are closely linked and if you don't have a good experience and you can't show good results, then it's unlikely that any of you will want to buy it. One remark because it will escape my time, related to co-operation with BiH. So this concept of concentric circles I think is logical, that's what we've also used in foreign policy and it's logical here as well. However, BiH is of course important to us for a number of obvious reasons, but it is very important to see which projects, not least in BiH, of course, but elsewhere, but in BiH in particular, where we work with BiH. Are these projects that help BiH develop according to, let's say, some model of the European state and future EU members, which we have managed to take in some steps in this regard, or are projects that divide and divide society in BiH. And that's the key thing. And whether co-operation with BiH is good or not, we will see when we see the type of projects and there have been terrible projects. Absolutely scary projects and absolutely unacceptable from the position of the future EU member, and the fact is that Croats in BiH have the space. This space holds the European future of BiH. I'd have a lot more to say, of course, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54362	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first of which is the distinguished representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54363	Dear counterpart Pusic, you spoke in your speech about our country's international reputation, but as you know, every country that is a servant, which is a puppet, which is managed outside, which has no foreign policy, but only implements directives that come from Washington, Brussels or any other centre of power, such a country unfortunately, no one in international politics appreciates. Such countries in a vasal position, some called satellite countries. These are countries that represent nothing and whose opinion neither interests nor value anything. Why? Because they don't have their opinions and opinions. You went in the race for the post of UN Secretary General because you were convinced that such a policy as yours or how our country conducts, someone in the world appreciates it. But you had a cold shower. A cold shower when you saw in fact that your reputation as a person in the UN or our country actually represents nothing at all, that is to say, nothing at all. Unfortunately, you were foreign minister, you were an integral part of the government, you could have influenced it. You could have influenced it, you could have changed the perception of our country, you did absolutely nothing to change its status. So today Croatia is as servant and vassal as it was at the time of your term of office. And I therefore consider this speech to be one by throwing dust into the eyes and one by dishonest means by which it is intended to show that Croatia is doing something, that Croatia is trying to do something and in fact all these parties that led the country are not taking us anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54364	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're talking about something you don't have a distant idea about. So as far as Croatia's servant relationship with anyone is concerned, that's not the problem with Croatia. The problem is that we don't have long-term...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54366	.../Intruder President: Col. Pernar doesn't listen to you anyway, he's gone out./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54367	...well, well, but let's listen to people,...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54368	I mean no, no, just so you know it's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54369	So the problem of Croatia is possibly one constant in foreign policy and politics in general, and it takes every country some time to come to recognize what foreign policy is and to what extent it is important to act on a continuous path in foreign policy and not to change every time the government changes, but we will. As far as the UN is concerned, our policy in the UN has had a great reputation. And not to convince me here what he told me after the election, the newly elected UN Secretary-General for our country and our candidacy, and the fact that only the lack of government support, our candidate, or me, in that case, caused the result that he caused, and I was told without the government's support, of course, there is no chance. But it has damaged our country's reputation not only because of the servant's relationship but because of the lack of continued understanding that foreign policy is one thing in common and that it should not be alienated. That was bad, but it wasn't servant, it was just short-sighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54370	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor Pusic, you said in your speech that to use the full potential of civil society, it would be necessary to develop a legal framework that exists in the Republic of Croatia, which relates to development aid or simply cannot be sent on the basis of the current legal framework for certain cooperation missions in the area of development assistance. And I was talking about the need to establish a permanent platform with civil society to exchange experiences or involve them in development aid activities. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer, not one of the reps that we sent to the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. But it seems to me that at the moment when the opposition calls for the development of the legal framework needed to involve civil society in development aid that only a little bit is needed by the authorities, one small will to do so and to move from word to action because everything that we write in the strategy and cannot be realised because of our legislation, it is simply an empty letter on paper and does not mean anything but to cheer up this Assembly or our public. If we are serious then we need to establish all the implementing mechanisms so that these wishes that we set out in the strategy can be translated into reality. Well, here's clean and I'm asking you to tell me if you're asking the government to do this legal framework to make sense of all this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54372	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54373	Well, I especially agree with this piece where you said we were calling the government. Because I think that anything can happen only if the government takes that position, the government as a whole, headed by the prime minister, because otherwise it's still going to melt away. And in this area, it absolutely takes a little braver initiative. And this more courageous initiative can include this platform of civil society and legal frameworks, it must include the adoption of a law already prepared and possibly a little more courageous step in communication with countries outside the immediate environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54374	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54375	Dear colleagues, I've taken two words out of your presentation and I think we should talk more about the first word and that word is worth it. What are the values in Croatian society? These are the values of the former system where the first command was a companion, manage, do a little work, steal a lot, in the trunk of bribes, lived comrade Tito, no one else's, etc. Or are these 10 commandments of God based on civilised Europe? So values about the former system, what you had, fake academic titles, you had where people progressed not by integrity and professionalism but by relationship. And it happens today, you see where students are sold there exams, etc. That means we're on the moral level of the former state. Second word, cooperation. Well, of course cooperation, I'd like to see more cooperation with Bulgaria, like Poland, Romania, countries that have spent... Laws, Poland, for example. Right in front of us now because there was catharsis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And again, I repeat, politics is a human policy. And it has long been proven that with the personnel in the former system that can't change the mental circuit, I'm a soldier, Germany when and when they've united, more and more officers have replaced, and why, the first reason they're acting democracy and they can't change the mental set. The second reason you worked with a secret... against its people, it has no catharsis, and part of that former system that is still the government in this country are NGOs and they prevent this catharsis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What civil society? You have mass, mass murderer, you have here, mass murderer is here walking around Zagreb, in fact zones and UDBEs and service of state worthlessness, who received $50,000 per murder, there are in Croatia, nothing. And when we get to catharsis. Both the secrets of the government and the associations are just a flossula for the continued ex-syncour to remain in power and their successors. Some who sit here, it's funny to them, and they were doctors of science, and they don't know anything about their history and they're clones of the former system... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54376	Thank you. Comrade Glasnović, thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Pusic is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54377	As far as values are concerned, the values that we are propagating or should be propagating or at least nominally saying that we are propagating, and on which we have built our entire transformation, are what is called European values. Like any such category, they are one species, if I may use that word positive utopia. So, under the positive utopia, I mean, one goal towards which it is permanently going and towards which it is oriented, which never completely or at least at this point is nowhere fully realized. But that fact that it's not fully realized doesn't mean that they can't use us as a guideline, and I think we need to use them as a guideline and as some kind of permanent inspiration and at those values, I think we should work together and share them. As far as cooperation and all that is concerned, I will comment on only one fact, so Poland is at this point politically in a bad situation, it has survived the economic crisis in Europe better than anyone else. But I must tell you that it was brought forth by a generation that began in the NGO in Poland that success and that result was presented by just a generation of people or a group of people who came from the NGOs and who had a long tradition, started with Malcerovic, and then once a whole generation of young people who entered the institutions of the Polish state through NGOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54378	Thank you. And the assignments of the replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Pusic, you said there were some terrible development aid projects in the BIH that caused huge damage to the Croats in the BIH. Before I ask you to implicate us all here, especially me, which projects, which were so terrible. I'll just remind you, all of us and you that the Croats are the first to rise against aggression against the BIH. First, the first victims of the war in the BBC and those who broke out most demographically in the BiH. Today we see that it is not possible to amend the electoral law although there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that it must be amended. That's what tried to block them, they're not even there. I would if it didn't change the electoral law, it wasn't a legal state. And we're like... We will invest in being a legal state, because it is our obligation to promote the fulfilment of the obligations made in Annex 4, that is, as regards the Constitution of the BIH, which provides for the existence of a Constitutional Court whose obligations are final and binding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bombs are being dropped verbally due to the construction of the Peljega Bridge. And you are now mentioning that there have been terrible projects of development aid to the Republic of Croatia that have caused damage to the Croats of the BIH. I ask you nicely, be so kind as to implicate us, me, who were the terrible development aid projects of the Republic of Croatia in the BIH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54380	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54381	Well, that's what you fellow Kovacs should know, because you were a minister, too, so you had insight into it. Let's say five, six times paints the fence of the same church. Let's say 5, 6 times people's costumes were bought for the same composition. Money that could go further into what would be useful, which is, say, training Croats in the BIH for a European project. Not for breaking society, not throwing money who knows who or why, but certainly not for the interests of Croatian people, but for some private interests, it is seen by the type of project, and also by the number of repetitions, how many such projects have been repeated. And that money could instead go precisely for Croats to establish in the BiH as they could be, and that is the leaders of the European BIH project. Not just the Croats in the bih, but the whole bih. That could be it. And of course, that's the problem with the BIH, the team. So one of the reasons for demographic injury, i.e. such an exudus, is that there was no representation model or there was a representation model that could represent the interests of Croats in fact. But this is not done, with this kind of development projects, that is not done with building huge millions worth buildings, this is done by profiling and projects with Croats in the BIH that can enable them to play a leading role in the European future of BiH as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54382	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54383	We're going to continue our work, and now it's up to the esteemed colleague Pernar, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54384	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the strategy of our country's development, unfortunately, is missing, unfortunately shows that those who created themselves have no vision, that they can't, they don't know or want to. We see a strategy for the development of our country that has been going on so far, we can assume according to this, if we continue to move on to the same policy in the future, where we will end up. It's a country without people, people without money, parents whose children are leaving the country, children whose parents are leaving. It's a country where almost twice as many people die as they are born. Such a country has no future, don't have any doubts about it. As far as monetary policy is concerned, the same thing is planned for continuity, it is planned even by means of political elites, the abolition of the kuna, as Croatian national currencies and its exchange with the euro, which actually leads to the total colonialisation of our country. In the development strategy, this problem is not mentioned at all or indicated, I guess it is not considered a problem. And why is this so controversial? Well, in one replica, I tried to prove that the situation in which Croatia claims to advocate world peace and help humanitarianally, let's say voluntaryly, other countries, people etc. is hypocritical when Croatia sends weapons to terrorists, in Syria or state terrorists in Saudi Arabia who are actually committing aggression with Croatian weapons over the neighbouring country of Yemen, without any legitimacy. Without a decision by the UN Security Council, without any threat to the territorial integrity of Saudi Arabia by Yemen. It is an attempt to change the regime, which actually has the blessing of the only American, or Israeli. This regime change has no legitimacy and it is a disgrace in both the Arab world and the rest of the world. However, my wish today to look especially at Vesna Pusic's statements during her speech, she said a shocking thought, when I said that in Croatia we do not appreciate, that we do not have a reputation, because we are a servant country, because we do not have our own policy, that in fact our opinion does not mean anything, because we do not have, she said, that I quote, that we are a servant country, that is not our problem. So, according to her, the fact that Croatia is a servant country for Vesna Pusic is not really our problem. And here I am, asking you gentlemen MPs, from left to right, if it's not our problem, whose problem it is. Whose problem is that we are in a subjugated position. Unfortunately, in a political sense, we find ourselves in relation to one woman who has a husband, who says everything she does, manages her and does it to her harm. So, he works against her interests, undermines her all the time, takes autonomy, takes her money, draws billions, etc. or, let me put it this way, the relationship in which one side takes advantage of the other. Vesna Pusic does not see the problem in such a relationship. Perhaps I am the only one here in the Croatian Parliament, with the exception of a few colleagues, that billions of euros per year go from our country to foreign credit institutions. To draw enormous money from our country. Am I the only one? Here, let Mr. Maric say, this year, how much money is he going to pay off? If I'm not mistaken, it means paying off the government debt, paying off the debt of public companies, to which the state is a guarantee, means where it has given state guarantees and the corresponding interest, 45 billion kuna will go. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it's more than that is actually 6 billion that's actually 6 billion euros. So, only this year, it comes out of Croatia 6 billion euros, and people dig in the trash, they have a pension of 300, 500 kn. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners, and then what he says from the ruling coalition, Mrs. Bozica Makar, says they have pensions of 100,000 less than 500 kn. Yeah, they're digging through the trash, but it's a Croatian reality. It's a Croatian reality for her. And for the creditors who rob our country with the help of the collaborators, there are 45 billion kunas for them, and you'll say again, so that's reality, so these creditors with those fat geese who have more money anyway than we can get zero into the calculator, they need to be given up to the last June. To the last cent, to the last kuna, to the last euro, stamps, or, let's say, convertable stamps or dollars. It's our country's policy. So to those who have everything, to those who are the kings of money, to those who rule this world, you worship them, you crawl before them in exchange for what? They gave you one of the kingdoms of this world to govern it, but you can't even do it with your own will, Mrs Pusic said. Such a policy, contrary to the interests of its people, unfortunately, is being conducted by almost all parliamentary parties by consensus. When Jesus Christ was in the wilderness, the Devil came to him, the account told him and told him, he showed him all the kingdoms of this world and offered them to him. Jesus did not accept them. However, when these foreign creditors came to you and told us to sell your country, hand over your people into slavery, agree to obey our will, agree to a servant's relationship, and the rest of God knows what will happen to them, you have agreed to it. You have shown that you have no wisdom, that you have no responsibility and that you do not have what is the most important element and that is love. Jesus says if he did, i.e. Somewhere in the Bible, if you have everything and love doesn't have everything, you gentlemen and ladies don't have love. So for a man who digs through garbage, you have no love or compassion. You're going to say, that's your reality friend and you're going to enter the official limo, now you're getting out of machine guns worth two million kunas. So he goes by some state official in a limo like that next to a man who digs through garbage and tells him, friend, and that's your reality. There, it's your love for young people who de facto with tears in their eyes separate from their parents. And you say ladies and gentlemen that's your reality. Why am I telling you this? Well, because when I see this strategy, I see that nothing will change. I see that all of this you've been doing so far you'll be doing it all the time. Such a policy is suicidal to society, catastrophic to the state and leads us to the loss of it itself. The fate of the Kurds will come upon us one day, we will be displaced all over the world, we will not have our own country. Perhaps Croatia will be known not as some region, as they call "Kurdistan", etc., but our Croatian people have lost their freedom, lost their statehood and what is most important is lost by the people's rulers. And there are no people's rulers. Who are the statesmen in this country today from those in power? Is one Plenkovic a statesman? Is Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic a statesman? Is Vesna Pusic a statesman? No more folk rulers, ladies and gentlemen in this country. And by doing so, the government does not represent the people, and there is no more legitimacy from them. There isn't. There is no lady and gentlemen of the legitimacy of that power which creates the parliamentary majority for the defendants, there is no legitimacy for that authority whose main backbone is a party that is convicted of crime, which stole the money of 22 million kuna by a powerful verdict has been ruled that it did so but refused to pay back. And then, thanks to political control over the highest levels of judgment, it knocks down that verdict and says ha, there is no final verdict, although in court they admitted to pulling the money. Unfortunately, if he were to blame only the political elite I would be dishonest, it is the people, the people who have chosen such a path for themselves, that way for their people, that way for their country, the way of humiliation, the way of suffering, the way of poverty, the way of misery. Dear ladies and gentlemen, if you had any shame, if you had any shame, I do not ask you to resign, but you would go out for this pay phone and say ladies and gentlemen we admit that we were running the wrong policy. We admit that we need to change the direction our country is going. However, as Vesna Pusic said, I do not see the problem in that all governments, that both governments run the same policy, politics should be a policy of continuity. So if the direction in which we go is good, if we all live in prosperity, if Croatia is the country in which people come and do not go, if Croatia is the country where young people have a future and old people have dignity, then we can say that we should continue with continuity, with the same policy. But can we say that pensioners in Croatia have dignity or young people's future? Unfortunately they don't, unfortunately she was taken from them, she was taken from them by the people who were chosen to represent them. And it's the biggest paradox. Those chosen by the people work against their voters and the paradox unfortunately I can't influence, I can't take a knife, a gun, a bomb and make people not vote for those who lead them to ruin. God gave people free will, so we give free will to the voters. But it is my duty to warn them that if they continue or do not go to the elections or vote for those who have so far voted to end up on the garbage container, at the border crossing, on the plane, on the labour market, in line with the soup kitchen, in the homeless shelter, that their family will fall apart, that they will divorce, that they will not actually have any luck, that they will argue at home over the distribution of the last kuna. In time, families are fighting in Croatia for 100 kuna, 500 kuna, 1000 kuna. And I say 45 billion kuna only this year is leaving our country outside. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where your brain is, where is your mind, where is your wisdom, that ladies and gentlemen, where is your sense of national identity, of caring for the people you belong, of caring for the people you are part of? Unfortunately, you act as if the Croatian people were a foreign entity, as if you had nothing to do with it, and therefore his fate is not disturbing you, and instead of saying let's change it, you say we continue in the same direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54385	Thank you very much. I let my colleague Pernar say all that you said even though none of it had anything to do with development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. I'm asking nicely all of the following speakers to stick to the subject. We have one replica, the respect of MP Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54386	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, in your speech you mentioned Jesus and love. And we all know well if we believe that Jesus went, spread love, didn't ask for money. And tried to give the people love, to live and to honor themselves and to live honestly in the world. Some, however, sought happiness. People who have a lot are looking for happiness by believing that wealth is happiness. We see together here now, we have Todoric mentioned every day, he thought he was a lucky man because he became rich. When he's gone bad, I won't defend him, I think he's guilty, everyone has turned their backs on him, and everyone here calls him the whole nation. He's a very unhappy man now, therefore, having money is not luck, spreading love, yes, it's happiness and it's the right thing to do, and now I'm asking you a question. As a Living Wall, you've had a chance to enter executive power, try to change something in this country, take some ministry and then try to help this people you think has been cheated, who you think has been stolen, but what you're doing now and this whole opposition, and I think that... HDZ or SDP, you need to enter some executive power and try to change and what you're saying now, it's pure pulsism and demagogy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54387	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54388	Here, Mr. Misic, I'll be specific and honest with you. I try to be generally honest in every public appearance, say what I think and in the context. And look, your decision was to enter power. Okay, but you have to ask yourself. So I'm not judging you now because you raised your hand for HDZ. I now condemn you for that because by raising your hand for HDZ, what have you changed in the country? Did the young stop leaving the country? Did the pensioners stop digging in containers? Did the lines in front of the soup kitchen disappear? Are more people employed? Are new jobs open? Are the taxes cut? Is the outflow of capital suspended from the country? Itd. Unfortunately, it wasn't, so I wanted to, I could get into HDZ power, I was offered, I could drive in a limo and not go home by public transport, taxi or on foot, I could have had a bigger salary, I could have had a secretary and who I didn't, and I don't know, my assistants, etc., but I knew that it wasn't the problem that I took, but the problem was that the people would get back. And unfortunately if I'd been working with HDZ, the people would have got the frigid fig, so they'd get nothing. And so it's not my reason why I don't want to go into coalition with HDZ because I don't want privileges, on the contrary, I want privileges, but I also want the Croatian people to get something in return. And you unfortunately entered the government just for privilege and the Croatian people won nothing in return. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54389	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic will speak on the subject this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And you can be sure that the SDP club will talk about the topic ahead of us. Here I welcome once again the Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister with Associates, and I would like to say on behalf of the SDP Club that we believe that this is the kind of document that a single country must have, in particular, an EU member. The document is well-assembled and we will support it. But, of course, I would also like to make a few comments on this strategy that is under discussion today, so first of all, let me say that development of cooperation is an important component of foreign policy and should contribute to the achievement of solidarity and justice in international relations and the resulting promotion in all societies of common values codified in the UN Charter. Now, if we ask ourselves what these values are, and it was in the debate, here's what the UN Charter can open, the first two articles are talking about exactly that. The main objective of development policy is to enable citizens of all countries to manage their own present and future for their own benefit and to enable each individual to make personal progress and development. In central development policy there is man, his dignity, his rights and his needs. Today, the differences between developed and undeveloped countries as well as inequalities within the countries themselves are particularly between the rich minority and the poor majority and cause various social deviations. From terrorism to non-accepting sustainable development, from opposition to climate change to organised crime, from corruption to deepening the digital gap. Development cooperation is an instrument for correcting these deviations in order to strengthen human dignity and stability of international relations. Unlike humanitarian aid, whose primary objective is to save lives in crisis situations and facilitate human suffering, the development of co-operation focuses on solving the cause of these problems and, after identifying the source of the problem, provides proposals to promote overall political, economic and social development with the ultimate goal of achieving its sustainability and training of society and individuals to manage their own destiny. The document that is right in front of us says that there has been a change of paradigm in development cooperation, and more than this whole story we call development aid than development cooperation because it has been realized that it is much better and more effective to achieve these objectives that I have mentioned. So it's no longer a unilateral relationship between donors and donors, but a two-way partnership relationship where donors as partners determine together with those who receive assistance needs that need to be met and defined by the country itself partner who is the recipient of such assistance. It should be stressed and this is very important given that Croatia is not a rich country and we cannot allocate large funds from the budget for development aid, that development cooperation has its own financial, but also non-financial element, so by transferring knowledge, experience or some other forms of non-financial assistance you can do much more and better to help countries that need help than just pumping money. Croatia thus launched a series of projects with Ukraine that we know where we transfer certain experiences from the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunov. But we can also do so in neighbouring countries, as well as in those parts concerning meeting the conditions for EU accession. We talked about new stakeholders in development cooperation and should certainly be recognized by civil society, religious and scientific organisations, economies, businesses. I would also like to mention here that, for example, a form of non-financial development aid can be and should certainly be used. The good will of the Mufti in Zagreb to make this model of protection of religious minorities that we have in Croatia a visual specimen, a form that could be promoted in Islamic countries for the protection of Christian and other minorities in these countries. So it is also a form of development cooperation in collaboration with religious communities that are prone to support such a thing. It should also be noted that in 2015, new sustainable development objectives are defined, the new 17 goals in the context of the new 2030 Global Agenda, which, of course, should be actively involved in Croatia if it wants to improve its international position. On the document itself, I have to admit that the sectoral and geographical priorities are one of the important elements, let's see where we concentrate our efforts and I think they're well defined. Here we have, for example, education, health, protection, and empowerment of women, children, and young people. But what I think is crucial when we recognize the international initiatives that aim at the same thing Croatia should be involved in. We had a recent "She Decides" initiative organised by a number of European Union Member States in response to the end of funding by America, namely President Trump, health programmes in developing countries. So this was primarily about protection programs, reproductive women's health. We didn't want to engage under the pretext of promoting abortion. The abortion didn't promote it. This was a broad spectrum of the protection of women and their reproductive health, and the abortion was only one of the ultimate possibilities in certain cases such as rape or other crimes. But Croatia shows how much it really holds on to the documents adopted in a way that it implements them in practice and that it recognizes every opportunity to promote these very goals that we have written here on our own in practice. Likewise, Bosnia and Herzegovina was mentioned. I think this is a good framework for helping Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including members of the HVO. So, if we talk about the dignity of every human person, education, health, if we talk about peace and security, the development of democratic institutions, post-war transition and many other things by our priorities, then I certainly recognise that in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in this way transparent to provide assistance, and I say to the members of the HVO, it seems much wiser than the special law to regulate it and to strengthen perhaps the arguments of those who do not have good intentions and who in front of international courts are trying to brand Croatia as an aggressor country in BiH which is certainly not so. What is also important and what is recognised in this strategy and what should certainly be realised in practice, it is a question of reducing the dispersion of our money. So on too many small projects that have no major impact on reality, concentrate them on a smaller number of projects that have an impact on reality and that is again Bosnia and Herzegovina a very good example. The concentration of money at the Bridge University must have contributed much more to the Mostar hospital than to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina themselves, compared to thousands of small fences that were painted five times or worn as mentioned in the discussion. And not only are such institutions of benefit to the Croatian people, but they are simply open to other peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which strengthens the automatic importance and position of the Croatian people, especially the social and political position in their own country, where they are unfortunately the least constructive people by the number of members. And that is why they need strong institutions, and that is why they need legal solutions that ensure their rights in their realisation. But it is also very important to say that development cooperation, therefore, is an instrument of foreign policy that can very well establish political partnerships with priority countries, but also economic partnerships. And surely the economy is one of the key variables in deciding where to go geographically. So, the region, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not controversial, but after which countries to go to, it is no longer just a matter of politics and what country you want good relations with, but a matter of economy. In which countries our businessmen see promising markets where they can do a good job of exporting goods themselves or investing money and thus indirectly filling the state register. Therefore, it should not happen to set priorities geographically without prior consulting the economy and I therefore advocate a permanent coordination platform with the economy around priority countries where to go. This is where we defined Afghanistan, Colombia and Tanzania. They all have their reasons why they're here. If these countries are okay, but we need to see really how to further motivate businessmen who may or may not understand how Croatia can help their country step up on the international market, and in Afghanistan which is a major construction site we can engage our, say, construction sector, or in Africa that is really waking up, becomes aware of its resources and governments that are currently in power are well-involved in the work of money and they just need to present certain economic projects in order for companies to be engaged. And development aid is that it is precisely possible to be closer to the government if the ministry with these countries in Africa and thus try to open the door to the Croatian business. So Croatian business must necessarily be part of this story. What I also find particularly important is a question of a PR campaign where we would try to explain to our citizens the importance of development cooperation for the Republic of Croatia as a whole and for its foreign policy because it is very difficult to explain to citizens its importance when they concentrate on their own situation, the situation in their bank accounts and their banknotes. When we have pensioners coming out of Ban Jelačić Square and strike against poverty it is difficult to explain why Croatia must separate some of the money and send it away to some distant countries such as Colombia or Tanzania, when they are not satisfied with the needs of Croatian citizens. As we try to put this in the context of the development of the Croatian economy, the opening of new markets, if we put in the context of Croatia's contribution to international peace and security, which sooner or later whether it happens in Afghanistan, Syria or Iraq, Libya or somewhere else, can come and knock on our door uncertainty, then surely citizens will be more informed and support more active efforts in this segment of foreign policy. So I think we must not forget or ignore this segment of communication with the Croatian public, which is not exhausting only in communication with civil society or with Croatian business people. Here is so much of us and what seems particularly important to us, if we want to implement these projects that we have listed here and our priorities, that we need to develop a legal framework as we have said several times today, the opposition will support this because it is in everyone's interest for Croatia's development policy to be quality and the money that we have allotted here to be encased in the best possible way in terms of satisfying our Croatian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54391	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first respected colleague of Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54392	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Klisovic, since you mention international relations with BiH in your presentation and in the national strategy itself, I have a need as a person dealing with diplomacy, I ask for one to put an opinion on the problem currently happening in Slavonski Brod. Yesterday, the President of the Republic was in Slavonski Brod, she came to us for an hour to announce that the issue of refinery pollution in the Bosnian Ship was resolved in such a way that the existing product pipeline would now be used as a product pipeline for gas flow, as now the refinery will be resolved, so the fuel plant for the refinery would be gas, it was agreed with Russian owners. However, the protocol signed, as far as we know, was signed with the Republika Srpska rather than with official Sarajevo. In view of this political decision made by the government and presented to us by the President of the Republic, I ask you as a person who has dealt with diplomacy, what is your opinion that this will reflect bilateral relations with BiH, whether it will have certain economic consequences and how you are looking at that political decision at all and whether it is in line with this national cooperation strategy with BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54393	A colleague of Klisovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54394	Thank you very much. The issue of air pollution management in the Bosnian Ship or Slavonski Brod, via the Sava, is not a question of development cooperation with BiH because the Bosnian Ship is a Russian investment and the state of affairs in the refinery itself that does not meet European environmental conditions is a problem that pollutes the air and makes people suffer in Slavonski Brod as well. For years, the Croatian state has been trying to solve the problem, unfortunately with many promises from both Republika Srpska and the Russian company that invested money in the Bosnian Ship and its refinery, has not led to satisfactory solutions. Now we have the idea of this productconductor which is not a new idea, it has lasted for a long time as well as the idea that the southern current that will ultimately not be realized, attaches to the Bosnian Ship and thus resolves the supply of gas refinery and prevents further pollution. I hope that we are finally close to a solution, although until this solution is real in practice we cannot say and be 100% sure that it will happen because we have listened to the promises of both the Republika Srpska and the Russian state institutions and the Russian state institutions, including the Government and the Foreign Minister, so many times, and it has not been resolved. As far as signing the agreement itself is concerned, therefore, it signs the agreements of the institution authorised by the Constitution. If these are two countries, they are international agreements, if the Constitution in this BiH case gives authority to an entity to deal with certain matter, then it has the right to sign such an agreement. But the Republic of Serbia is certainly not a Pandan to the entity of Republika Srpska and should not sign agreements with it, it could then be done at a level I don't know, Croatia's county with Republika Srpska or some other way. But here it is crucial to actually get an investor, which is the Russian company to stick to those environmental rules that we have in the Republic of Croatia to prevent further pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54395	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54396	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klisovic, I want to ask you a question since you have been in diplomacy for a long time and you will probably be able to answer me. But before that, I would like to mention the two key words that you said here after the pay phone, which is the economy and the market. We are once, although the cold war is over long ago, I will try again and mention it even though it is somewhat shyly mentioned in the strategy, which is the movement of the unclassified. We then had many students who came from developing countries, who studied here, gained high education, even many doctors here and stayed working. On the other hand, we had companies that went to that market and made very good contracts there and that's how they developed. However, what is the situation of the Republic of Croatia, after all, of the EU when we talk about today's opportunities? On the one hand, although I say the Cold War long-ending interests remain, America's interests, Russia's interests. And there is actually the EU between the two, to say as a buffer zone and the Republic of Croatia, which has already suffered great damage due to Russia's sanctions. Croatian diplomats say, we won't do anything, no decisions will be made that will deviate from Brussels's actually decision. Here's a colleague of Martha Luc-Polanc's talking about energy independence. And how now, how can the Republic of Croatia actually achieve energy independence when Russia is offered for help and America is offered for help. America, of course, through the LNG terminal, Russia through the pipeline, and you would like to be strategically independent. How much this is actually possible for today's international relations because it is also the basis of this strategy, when we speak, is talking about partner relations. How it is possible to establish partner relations if you do not, if there is no independence that is crucial, in fact, so that you can negotiate with all those you want to help and of whom you can ultimately get help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54397	Reply to the replica of counterpart Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54398	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you for this question. So I think that breaking ties with non-classified members was one of the major mistakes of our policy by wanting to join NATO and the EU. I am to join NATO and the EU, but I don't think that we should have significantly violated our relations with non-classified members. Because it is one huge part of the world, in which Croatia has a great reputation and has always had it. After all, Croatian doctors, Croatian businessmen, scientists worked either in bilateral cooperation in these countries or through international organisations. Their reputation is quite large and they could and should have continued to open the door primarily to our economy for getting jobs. And our economy has been quite recognized in these countries as good, quality. is that we were in Yugoslavia at the time, but we were recognized by the name and last name of each company in particular. The detachment of these links has not contributed to anything in the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately it has worked out, because perhaps today we wouldn't even be in this economic situation if we took advantage of the opportunities that occurred in these markets and these countries are getting richer and richer and progressing quite quickly, even I can say that they have a higher percentage of progress than the Republic itself. It's unfortunately unrecognizable where we are one of the champions, which is sad, but that's right. And I think along with our path and our obligations in the EU and NATO that should be fully handled in the most qualitative way possible because there is our future that we do not have to be ashamed of our relations with non-classified countries, such as France, Spain, and the United Kingdom as well as the EU. And the Commonwealth countries with which it previously had special relations as a colonial force are now actually its potentially main market where it will continue its development. Croatia could use part of its history for its interest today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54399	Thank you. We move on to the next debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54400	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. We really need to adopt this new strategy that the Government is proposing today under a law that was passed in 2008 on development cooperation and humanitarian aid. It is necessary because, of course, the strategy has already been exhausted but also because much has changed in both global and regional terms, i.e. in the environment but also in the position of the Republic of Croatia. So the first thing we need to realize, of course, is that by joining the EU, Croatia has also taken on certain obligations as regards development cooperation but also the right to form European development cooperation. The EU gives almost 50% of the entire development, funds for development cooperation to the world. A new consensus within the EU is yet to be negotiated and implemented. Also in 2020, the Kotonu agreement, which regulates the European Development Fund, which is very generous and where Croatia must, in line with this strategy that we are discussing today and the priorities that we put into this debate and define then, not only is our national goal but it must also try to translate it into European documents. Secondly, because here we are in the context of our OECD membership bid, and the OECD is exactly an institution that measures the level of developed countries in development cooperation with developing countries to ensure that this strategy is in this way and consistent and to support our OECD membership bid. But I also said that the circumstances in the environment have changed, we see a much more agile presence of some third country development agencies and outside the EU, this is especially the case in BiH, and therefore we must also adapt our participation and our activities. At a global level that has already been mentioned more than once today, the development paradigm has changed, the 2000 Millennium Goals have changed to fight poverty have been replaced with the new Agenda 20-30 and 17 new Sustainable Development Goals, which are being introduced by certain newspapers, and it is therefore necessary that our National Strategy recognises some of these priorities. And in that, of course, this document was taken into account. But the most important thing in all these, of course, changed circumstances is to define what our national priorities are and how they are set up. So consider all these changed circumstances, take into account the new UN agenda, but the most important thing is to see where the Croatian interest is and how we will promote it through this strategy, through the implementation of the development cooperation strategy, of course and for humanitarian aid. One of the newspapers of this new framework on a global scale is universality, so those criteria that used to be set for developing countries are also important for all UN members today, so all countries and even developed ones must meet them. They must also report to the UN accordingly, this development strategy must also be kept in line with the policy implemented domestically. The change in the paradigm, as previously said, also mentioned by the Minister Babic, also highlights that today we no longer have a relationship between the donor and the recipient, but wants to develop through development cooperation just one dialogue with the countries that are the recipients of these funds and to negotiate with them what are the priorities, which are the projects that can really best help their development. This is also important for our relationship, for example. I think we have rightly pointed out in our geographical priorities as a country with which we want to develop the most projects in this development cooperation programme. Also, transparency in development cooperation has been something to say about it, but here I welcome what the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is developing standards in designing this development cooperation, the lack of such standards has led to cases, for example. as was the case of a cooperation project with Angola, where there was one donation, which ended up in a foundation of Mrs. Melinda and Bill Gates and where there was no feedback on whether those funds really came where they were intended. Therefore, it is he who must change, to be fuller transparency, to know precisely that once the funds are allocated, that these funds will come to those for whom they are intended. The new global framework requires that peace and security be promoted as a presumption of development. That is one newspaper, in those old millennium objectives, the fight against poverty did not take into account the importance of peace and stability, the importance of building democratic institutions and what is called good government. And here in this segment, this strategy takes this into account and recognises that Croatia has just one niche, where it can through its experiences, although it does not have perhaps the largest financial capacity, of course, especially in relation to other major donors, but it can, because of the experience, which we unfortunately acquired after Milosevic's aggression and then rebuilding the country, pass on these experiences to others and thus contribute to development cooperation. It is important that in this strategy, I think that the government has well detected and set priorities in geographical terms, as far as Southeast Europe is concerned, within that, the development of cooperation with the BIH, of course the strategy in this case sets only the principle level, which must later be developed. In this debate, I believe that it will go through an increase in co-operation between the counties of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units in the case of the Federation are also counties. It is precisely because these counties are those who know best how to make the best use of these funds to develop the region. Of course, our development cooperation with the BIH takes care of the survival of the Croatian people, to be equal, to be constitutional, not only on paper, but in practice, but also here it is emphasized, this is development cooperation with the whole of the BIH, because this is the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the development of the whole state of BIH and, of course, its European and Euro-Atlantic path. As far as the southern and eastern neighbourhood is concerned, I think it should also be pointed out here that the choice of Jordan as a country to co-operate with is extremely important because it is an important factor in promoting political stability in the Middle East, in cooperation with the EU, when migration issues should be addressed, Croatia has already developed cooperation and good experience with Jordan and therefore the continuation shows that we have a good focus of cooperation. I think there's a key. So, do not go to disperse with projects, which then do not have some great extra value, but choose some countries, focused with them to work and keep it through a larger one period and that is exactly what this strategy shows that way. As for developing countries, Colombia is mentioned here, Croatia first paid 20,000 euros in the EU's development co-operation fund with Colombia, which is one fund to support the peace process in the country at the beginning of this year. And this is closely linked to what was mentioned earlier in the debate, where there are economic interests. At first glance, a man would say, why Colombia, is far away, where there are interests. However, here, just from Croatia 20,000 euros, the EU fund, which has a billion euros and which finance, among other things, demining projects, opens up space for Croatian companies, and they are right at the world's top in demining technologies. In this way, this form of development cooperation is essentially a very smart investment that opens doors for our companies and even in distant Colombia. As far as sectoral priorities are concerned, here I think it's well indicated, so first of all, it has to be dignity, every human being. This is done through education, health, protection and empowerment of women, children, young people. The second point is, as I said, peace, security, democratic institutions, where Croatia can, through its experience, be of additional value and earn concrete projects already do, especially when it is Southeast Europe, but thus strengthens its influence. And of course, the third topic is responsible for economic development. What I would point out is that in the development of this strategy, it was seen that there was a concern of involvement, and there is one approach, in fact, I think that Germany was the first in the EU to do so. This means not only working with non-governmental associations that are classically engaged, but also including religious communities, which were actually discriminated against some time ago and were not taken into account when development cooperation projects were being carried out. Our strategy now includes it and I think it's commendable. Also, including the private sector, which is extremely important, because classical development cooperation, which would be financed exclusively by state money, is not enough for all that needs today to meet all the goals set by the UN. Co-operation with the private sector can therefore be extremely important to achieve these objectives. Finally, I would also like to at least briefly refer to humanitarian aid, given that this strategy is not only about development cooperation, but also about humanitarian assistance, here in this House, last week we discussed a report by the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia, and in this context we mentioned how rarely it happens, but, unfortunately, it happened that our Croatian emigrants were once in need of assistance from the Croatian state. Ugl. Croatian emigration was the one that helped Croatia especially in the most difficult moments of the 1990s. But today, here, for example. The Croats in Venezuela, due to the catastrophic state that President Madura's regime led there, are, like other citizens of Venezuela, in a very difficult situation, indeed one humanitarian crisis. And I am glad that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has found a way to send humanitarian aid, that the Croatian state is present, that it has not forgotten about our evictive community in Venezuela. Of course, our help goes to everyone, but special focus is also for Croats, which makes sense. Some new procedures were to be developed, and I believe that this mechanism will be accelerated in the future, in order to get that help where it is needed faster, and on the other hand, Croatia can also show in parts that it really cares about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, who are in need, as is now the case and the Croatian community in Venezuela. Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, support this proposal for a national strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54401	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first is a respected colleague, Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54402	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Comrade Stier, one would like from your debate the matter further highlighted, and this is a matter of transparency. Of course, all projects financed through development cooperation must have transparent papers and everything must comply with the law. Our legal order would have to have and recognize the specific situations that people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are entering in this topic. And that's when we line up in Syria in the middle of the war, when you don't even know who controls what part of the country and in what way, you have to deliver help in the money for the functioning of a department in the hospital. Then it's very difficult to get everything black on white, all the papers that are needed in our legal order, so that one of the people who does this job in foreign affairs would be called for money manipulation. Likewise, it happened in Afghanistan, where it was not at some point the functioning of the authorities, especially local authorities, that all the papers needed to be signed in the right way, require our legal order. And in the sense that, in the sense of any amendments to the law that regulates this area, we will have to see that in these special situations, where aid is particularly needed, and humanitarian, too, not only developmental, how legally and financially resolves the matter, so that people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs don't afterwards call for responsibility, because their papers aren't clean, and there's a State Audit coming or someone else. And neither onions ate nor onions smelled. Did you do your best to send help where she was... Needed to save lives, but in the wind of war, they didn't get all those administrative papers and signatures they needed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54403	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54404	Thank you, Mr. President. Kolega Klisovic, this example that I mentioned, is of course related to development cooperation, where it is safe for employees, who have committed themselves, there is nothing controversial, but it is controversial in that segment, which in the planning of it, obviously did not take all actions, due to shortcomings, standards how and how to design in this way, and that is what is now changing, in order to avoid situations in which we have a payment of one foundation, but then we have no feedback, that any activity that was intended has really been erased, so it is one segment. The second segment you mentioned is the one about humanitarian aid, which is usually in crisis situations, and that's why I mentioned, that it's wise here to expand the way it works, to include not only cooperation with UN agencies, which is the classic essence of cooperation or with some NGOs, which is just as good, but also with some religious institutions, because for example. You mentioned Syria, there you have exactly those religious institutions that can get there to people who are in need where the UN can't, as a rule, come from its own rules. And here's the religious community, like, The Jesus Institute for Development Cooperation, that is, for help. As a rule, in contact with those people who are in need. And therefore cooperation with such institutions will enable us to really help those in need.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54405	Second replica, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54406	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stier, I am pleased that you have mentioned points 4 of this report again, and it is related to cooperation with religious communities that are in fact working exclusively on humanitarian aid in many countries, which are primarily missionaries. They should be particularly highlighted or mentioned here, and my question to you, in fact, since you were also a minister, when we talk about this cooperation of institutions with these people who selflessly sacrifice themselves in the field, what kind of cooperation is this? Is it somehow tangible, concrete, measurable, or is it just, in principle, always needs to help people because we know many times when they come back to the Republic of Croatia, when they talk about their experiences, we see that it is extremely, extremely hard work and the sacrifice that they provide there. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54407	And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54408	Yes, thank you, colleague, for that question. This cooperation, as mentioned now in this cooperation, opens up a new kind of dialogue and concrete cooperation with institutions that can help. For example. I mentioned before the question of Venezuela, for example, there is just one organization like Zdenac, the first that has introduced us to a difficult situation at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. It was going now, for example. with Caritas to get as much information as I am, so that these people can be helped in need. But the fact is that it is still a new form of cooperation at European level, unfortunately not developed, the first state that, according to my information to open the way for such cooperation, was Germany, through their federal ministry of development cooperation. And that is where the exact criteria are yet to be set, the frameworks of how this help develop. So, she didn't take the wave enough, unfortunately, but it's good that the national strategy has recognised, because I think that this can improve the work in the field of development cooperation, especially in the area of humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54409	Thank you. Now let's go to the last debate about clubs. This is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, colleague Miro Bulj and after that we will have a break until 3:00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54410	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Minister, with your assistants, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about a strategy, a declarative in essence an act which is not essentially implementing but should be implemented through various regulations in essence to be implemented, to be in a way that our diplomacy in the Croatian Development Cooperation Strategy for 4 years. We have to remember until we enter the EU, we have been those who have received assistance for cooperation, we have received and we are now donors in essence of financial assistance. The fact that the strategy that every country must be, it must be primarily coordinated. About all that is on paper, what is in the strategy, I should essentially be coordinated with everyone who is leading diplomacy with the minister, of course and with the person who is the president of the Republic, in this case I am interested in the part, what is the coordination, because it is not exactly the current coordination of the President of the Republic with diplomacy. I wish that such attitude and perception were not, but here I would like to hear it from the Minister's mouth about how co-ordination is because we need to know that even under the Constitution, the President of the Republic has certain powers in terms of our diplomacy. This strategy speaks of a number of visions, in essence, a whole series of very important aspects of security, humanitarian character, trade character and, of course, it should always look at Croatia's interests above all and our strategic interests, which we have so far with the current foreign policy, have not been very well protected and, above all, we see this on the example of the Croats from BiH who are essentially in the background, mainly Herzegovina but also the whole area of BiH simply remain empty, more and more people are moving out of BiH and are mostly used during the pre-election period when they have to vote in certain areas which is not good. It should be more action and work and we talked about it a few days ago when the Office of the Croatians was in the BiH area, when Mr. Milos was here, when that was all he talked about. So these are the problems of using language. We see that even after our reaction and HTV, public television will enable, two correspondence was said. And it's saddened anyone to think of shutting down the operation of HRT in that way. Many people from Herzegovina send me e-mails and send messages that they simply don't have the ability to monitor these programs and language is something that is most important and most important. And Croats are not in an equal position, of course we must have good relations and good co-operation with BiH as a whole. We are simply and strategically and physically connected, and we simply have to observe it that way. Of course, the painful wounds in history were diplomacy must be smooth and must protect Croatia's interests. Like that. It is very important that Croatia's diplomacy focuses on what is important to protect our people out in the countries where they live is very important that we fight for the damages that have been done in the Homeland War. You, Madam Minister, were also Mr Dacic's advisor, I think, you have these contacts. Well, it would be good to fight for war damage, which is a huge 45 billion euros, which is a huge amount, they have done huge damage to Croatia in their large-serb ride. We still feel them, they're mostly still wanted, even after 20 years and a few years we've been looking for our dead and missing. So our man, each individual must be protected and that diplomatic activity of yours, your diplomatic activities must be directed towards Croatian strategic interests. So we can start with everything we have to use and preserve. We won't just talk about the border both on the sea and on land, we won't talk about an economic belt that we haven't declared in our seawaters yet where our foreign fleets in our waters in billions of kunas hunt fish. We don't have that kind of courage we'd have, we didn't have it. I hope that we will have everything from now on in order to reach out to certain political officials from the EU, and in so doing, we have offended the role of the Croatian country's creation, the Homeland War. It was that co-operation with The Hague. I hope he never gets hurt again. I hope that you will fight that our Croatian defenders will not be under the jurisdiction of Vukic and the other Chetniks that our defenders will have to go to answer in Serbia, because we know that we have not blocked the chapter of the judiciary, and that that jurisdiction in the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia, which is, at the very least, respected ministers if you hear at least, it is embarrassing that Croatian defenders who defended Croatia in Croatia against Vučić and his means of Chetniks, that simply our defenders are left behind as a hunter and will be tried in Nis or I don't know where, and simply the Croatian defender was not an aggressor. This is about a large number of our citizens. I'd ask you to block it however you know, you're right. It blocked us when we entered the European Union, we had to close the most prominent Croatian commanders, generals when we entered the European Union in order to open the chapter of the judiciary. However, Serbia is left with the right of jurisdiction in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that we are all here in the Parliament or we are participants in the Homeland War or we have someone who was part of the Homeland War. And that all these people have the right to justice, means Serbia's jurisdiction, which I think is at least disastrous to get the possibility of little Haag Serbia. We need to talk about this and, of course, collect this war damage, so there will be money for Croatia. That's the obligation Serbia should be. I think that our status in the European Union of the sea, and they are not yet in the EU, can mean in the dialogue of course, they are our neighbours, the sea is correcting that part of the injustice, and that is our obligation, first of all, to the freedom of the Croatian state. Because twisting Croatian history is not good. Of course we must use diplomacy and this cooperation, this strategy is an economic aspect and that we must promote what we have in this economic aspect. These are our biggest resources, it's from tourism to water, air, agriculture and energy, of course. For this we must and I asked you this in the replica we must protect our energy system, we must protect our waters, we must promote our waters because we need to know that they are water, we as Croatia are one of the richest drinking waters and that you as a diplomacy must promote this strategic resource. And I really believe that you will stop all the harmful projects that can pollute, i.e. ecologically damage that strategic resource of ours like water, and that's what we're talking about, is the Peruca thermal power plant where the scientific public would raise well, if anyone knew about it, you know about it because one of the owners of your husband's project. And I would really ask you to take every step of the way so that this project doesn't happen. Yet it is a strategic resource, the largest pool of drinking water. And I believe it won't happen, and that's of course the people won't let you because all of Central Dalmatia will drink that drinking water, and we can be exporters. And only Lake Peru has 570 billion liters of drinking water. That by 10 limes calculate what that value is, and far greater value can be. I hope you'll promote that brand of ours in the world and we will be, in fact, more price for water than oil. Because we can still do it here at the gas stations today, you can see that it costs a liter of water from a liter of oil, and we can't forget that resource. And not to pay as a subsidized energy gas and our spaces where the wind plants are to pay our citizens more expensively out of their pockets. I believe that you have listened well to this and I believe that we will protect our strategic interests and that you, too, through diplomacy, along with the presidents of the Republic and anyone who can influence, will also be on all the world markets. Because I believe that our quality water can end up in all world markets, but not in the way that the source of the river Cetina was rented during the government of Milanovic, 37 seconds were debated about the rental of the Cetina source, at the source of the Cetina River, which monthly pays 5000 kuna. One household of 5,000 kuna that has a slightly larger garden spends water. So it is a very important resource between contractual cooperation between the economy and the Croatian and that should be protected. Of course, you cannot protect this legislative body with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and most and minority protect that resource as a development resource. It is very important that agriculture and food production. I hope our products are all over the world, too. We have to do this, we have to brand it, we have to include the businessmen because simply without production, and mainly food production is unfortunate what at the time of tourism when our tourism is promoted, of course and through diplomacy our tourist values are promoted, that there are no Croatian domestic products on our beaches. I believe this cooperation isn't just about paying the membership fee we're paying. They used to pay us off, but I believe it's a promotion common to all those who are in diplomacy from coordinated. I repeat again what does not work from the President of the Republic to you as head of diplomacy. I believe it can be done to protect what is our constitutional obligation, our Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, there are more and more of us in Ireland, so unfortunately, if we don't stop these trends, if we don't economically promote our products, our production and our businessmen, I believe that we will stop it because we will be more in Ireland than in Croatia. And because of such a policy today we have two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia empty, because of the numerous lobbying groups that are in the economy so I will remember, I believe it will never happen again when the highways from Zagreb to Split were built. The gram of iron from Croatian ironworks was not installed in Croatian ironworks but imported, while the largest was the collection of metals, irons, collected in the Republic of Croatia and exported as such. There was exports of a finished product imported to Croatia and built on Croatian highways while Split's iron mill collapsed. We also have a brand of shipbuilding that's been destroyed, numerous brands that we must use, of course, to cooperate with the humanitarian aspect. All these aspects are... and safety, but we are so small that we must protect our resources both at sea and on land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must have a sovereign policy, a diplomatic policy that we will defend the interests of the Croatian rather than the Brussels officials, not what is the worst in the Croatian state what has happened. So all the believers here in Catholic religion know that we have seven deadly sins. But the biggest sin of Croatian politics is the hearing, listening to their bosses who were mostly from Brussels before Belgrade, Budapest or I don't know. We must protect exclusively in Croatia the interests of Croatia and you through diplomacy and these relations and cooperation not only to pay membership fees but to promote Croatia through the diaspora and protect those people in the diaspora, and to stop young people from leaving and preferably to return the diaspora. We do not protect these interests and I am sorry that it is not, but in this strategy since 2017 and 2020 it is somewhat beautifully written as a declaration document. If the courtship continues, I fear more and more people will be evicted and unfortunately we will have two thirds of Croatia's empty, behind Croatia where Croats are in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have no constitutionality, they have not received the same conditions as the other two peoples have. We can if we want to defend interests, not lobbys in energy, either in the economy, any interest we must protect and promote Croatian interests, and this can be promoted exclusively by you as leader, President of the Republic, diplomacy, President of the Republic and only by Croatian interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54411	Thank you, too. There's no replica, which means we're finishing work by 15.00 hours, and then we're continuing individual debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54412	Here is a colleague and colleagues, we move on to an individual debate and the first to appear is the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54413	Thank you very much. I'll be brief and I won't repeat what I've already said. So, one message I just have. Croatia takes over the Presidency of the European Union in 2020 and it will need to define some of the priorities of our Presidency. In the foreign policy segment, I think it would be wiser to give up the definition of some major political crises as the priority of our presidency because we ourselves cannot make too much of a contribution to their resolution. But the issue of development cooperation might be considered to be a priority, one of the priorities of our presidency, because we already have one record quite respectable of our country’s actions. We remember being in UN bodies like the Peace Building Commission. We have a number of bilateral projects in the area of development cooperation where we also use our experience from this post conflict of balance, which is of course very important for the European Union as the largest donor of development aid in the world, and very close to these issues that are currently burdening the European Union, such as migration. Because by addressing situations not only political crises in some countries from which migrants come to Europe, but especially economic conditions, climate change, their consequences are really defined by the European Agenda for Foreign Policy through international development cooperation. Here's my proposal is just that and that's the only message I wanted to send to consider whether this issue should enter into one of the priorities of our Presidency of the European Union, also considering that we currently have a Commissioner who deals with this matter. Therefore, Croatia is developing a reputation in this area and the worst thing is to go to a new area every time instead of continuing to deal with it on a continuous basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54414	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Finally, the same respected representative, Ivan Pernar, appeared, without the right to the final word. Therefore, I will now finally give the honourable lady to Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric, who will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54415	... I would say that some, I thank all those who have studied very closely and well who have supported this strategy. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I think she's important. It's as it was said at the beginning of the second time we define that kind of document. I think I also pointed out in the opening part which way we're going. So it's certainly not one policy with which we've defined everything to the end. So based on the lessons learned and the problems and challenges we have faced in the implementation, we will certainly work on certain preconditions that this strategy has the best application in practice. So in that sense, I would say, when it was a matter of coordination and counselling, we have in the spirit of good practice even twice conducted a broad consultation on this. So everyone who wanted to go to the Republic of Croatia could talk about it on two occasions. So that's about openness and coordination. As for the legislative and other frameworks in which this strategy is being implemented, we agree. I have also announced that we should also work on the development of a legislative further system and administrative system, and we will certainly do so during this period that is ahead of us. It was seen that there were some indeterminations in the law that, in practice, we would say when it comes to humanitarian aid now, it's one of, one of the examples where we saw that it's very difficult to engage in countries like Venezuela where the half-war is. So how to send there emergency assistance like we have now a little bit there creates various frameworks in which there was, it took time to come up with a legal good solution how to do it. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina itself is concerned, it has been mentioned a lot, I think it is important, it is also highlighted especially in our strategy. We are on track to concentrate in general, and in particular in Bosnia and Herzegovina on several strategic issues, and this trail will soon be followed by the implementation plan, which will identify some major issues for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as others living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The questions of the university and the question of the hospital. So, two very important headquarters for the survival and survival of Croats in the area, but also for Bosnia and Herzegovina's assistance in general. As for the sustainability of the platform, so it has already become a permanent platform of cooperation through... Civil society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also pointed out at the outset and now I repeat again, so we intend to establish a similar type of permanent cooperation and platforms with economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. We think that this is precisely the desire for more economics to participate in the use and implementation of aid is exactly one of the challenges ahead of us. And I'd like to put a few funds in here that we see great opportunities for our economic operators. One is already mentioned, it's a trust fund for Colombia. So there are bodies in the Republic of Croatia in particular in this section that are recognised in demining that can certainly mate and report to the implementation of projects in Colombia. Now at this point the secretary of state is visiting Colombia these days. When I was on the sidelines of the UN, I spoke to a fellow foreign minister, and I pointed out to her that we are interested in Croatian businessmen especially in the demining part where unfortunately there is a series of war and the need to demining our own homeland we have good experiences that can be applied elsewhere. As for other funds that are interesting for the economic part, it's a trust fund for Africa that we're going to pay our first payment these days. We are now one of three countries that is not in yet, not participating. It is therefore an important fund that is now working to prevent migration pressures and acts on root causes of migration. And a third initiative that is a very important initiative for economic resilience. It concerns Southeast Europe. It will also soon begin to be participated, and perhaps at this very moment we see the first option because it concerns Southeast Europe and there is also the nearness and experience and the knowledge and contacts that our economies have in this wider environment we see that actually the first good experiences they can take advantage of right within that fund. That's what I'd actually round up. I think it's very important that this period ahead of us, through the implementation plan, we will define a series of lessons learned exactly the kind of projects that are important through all those objectives that are counted here in this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54416	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54417	The proposal for a national strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2021 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal from the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2021, I am giving the National Working Body the opportunity to adopt a proposal for a national strategy for the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2021. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 102 for, 2 abstentions, 4 against, have been adopted by the Croatian Development Cooperation Strategy for the period 2017 to 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54418	We're going to the next point. This is the 2016 Ombudsman's report. The applicant is the Ombudsman of Pučka Excuse me, this is - The report on the work of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2016. [[Bukarica: She is not the attorney general. Work Report...]] By way of derogation from Article 30(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable President of the Committee of Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54419	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The 2016 work report is the last report I present to the Croatian Parliament as president of the first call of the commission which acts as a permanent, independent and independent state body. It is therefore an opportunity to point out, in addition to the data relating to the past year, the overall results of the tasks that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest put into the power of the Commission and the reasons for which the future amendments and addition of the laws governing the problem of conflict of interest need to be extended and the powers of the Commission itself should be strengthened. It is also necessary to point out the differences that require greater budgetary resources to be provided to the Commission in the coming period and to enable it to further develop and strengthen human, technical and other logistics capacities. In particular, when discussing this report on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, one of the respected members of that committee asked about how I assess the overall effects of our work on the basis of all the procedures carried out over the past years. Two important colossals are important to take care of when answering this question. The first track is a comparison of the situation found at the time of entry into office of the members of the current commission and the situation that this meeting of the commission leaves at the end of the term of office. The second is the assessment of the general situation whether progress has been made over the past five years in understanding what conflict of interest is and what these are the obligations of officials in the conduct of public duties, in particular in respect of respect of ethical principles of action. When we talk about the development of the commission as an institution, it is important to remind that during the period from the adoption of the first law in 2003 to the new law of 2011 the commission was set up as one of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. By doing so, it is understood that the members of the commission did not act professionally. Of all 11 members, 6 members were selected from the ranks of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and 5 from the ranks of prominent public employees. Members only gathered for discussion and decision-making at periodic sessions. Such a body in the nature of things couldn't even develop its own infrastructure. At the beginning of 2013, when members of the first permanent and professional meeting of the commission began their work. The commission was already physically separated from the premises of the Croatian Parliament in the space it was assigned to use by the then Agency for the Management of State Property, and in the Office of the Commission, i.e. the professional service employed a total of 8 employees. However, although the commission had already had certain technical equipment, i.e. with a certain number of computers, there were no adequate software information solutions to monitor work processes, and in particular in the conditions in which members of the Committee carry out their duties in a permanent working relationship and as such, they participate daily and directly in the performance of their work together with other employees employed in the office itself. Therefore, it was primarily necessary to design and develop work processes in the circumstances in which both members and officials in the Commission’s Office found themselves for the first time. In the previous reports, it was described that the situation found in early 2013 must also be understood through the fact that the circumstances, that the commission was not the owner of the programme through which the data from the submitted property reports were publicly published on the Commission’s website. Namely, the owner of the programme was APIS. Then there was no electronic system for the registration of e-mails and e-mails, there were no other registers and eyewitnesses necessary to monitor the status of individual items and time limits. There was no internal connection between individual computers, let alone the link between the information system of the Commission and the databases held by other state bodies. Finally, a register of officials is established with data on all officials who are required to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Although the obligation to form a register of officials was prescribed in the first law of 2003, at the time of the entry into office of the current member of the Committee, the commission did not welcome the already completed list or catalogue of duties and officials covered by the Commission's jurisdiction. Among other things, the Croatian Parliament has never provided the Committee with a list of duties it appoints as officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The Commission therefore considers that the jurisdiction of law enforcement in itself implicitly includes the powers of its interpretation for the purposes of the application of this law only interpreted to whom all of this law applies within the meaning of Article 3(2) of this Act. These are also the duties of the Director-General of Croatian Television, members of the Management Boards of HANFA, HERA, a member of the Council for Electronic Media, a member of the Competition Protection Council and a number of others on the basis of an autonomous interpretation included in the register of officials, and their behaviourists are invited to submit a report on the property situation. Before the new 2011 Act, there was no obligation to carry out previous, or administrative checks, and no regular verification of the data from the reports submitted on the property situation for each report submitted. Nor was this verification carried out prior to the entry into office of the current Board of Committees. I would point out that there were no technical preconditions for the implementation of systematic, previous and regular checks for each report submitted in early 2013. After initial experience in the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests in 2014, an information project was carried out to inform the overall work processes within which a new website has been developed, an electronic form of property reports and an office business system under which the electronic entries of the entry and exit mail are conducted, and electronic eyewitnesses for each particular area of work within the competence of the Committee. Within the framework of the office business system, individual items shall be automatically deployed and assigned to work. In the framework of the information project, an internal network has been established through which data and shared documentation are accessed according to different levels of authorisation in the Committee itself. For the first time, a register of officials was established. Further updates of the IT system were carried out in 2015 and 2016. The result of all investments made so far in the development of IT tools and applicative solutions has been recognised by relevant international bodies and organisations as an example of good practice in the verification of property reports. Due to the informative expenditure of innovation in the development of application-based IT solutions as well as the content of a number of resolved subjects, the Commission has been invited to present our system at relevant international conferences and to participate in other knowledge-sharing and practice-sharing projects, such as OECD, OSC, Regional Anti-Corruption Initiative. After the Commission established its own IT system in 2016, the merger of this information system was carried out with the databases of other state bodies, on the basis of which the Commission, for the purposes of verifying the data from the property report, can make direct insights into the data of, for example, the Tax Administration, Katastra, and in other public registers and registers, such as vehicle registers, vessels, aircraft registers, and data from the Central clearing company, the Commercial Court and others. By the end of this year, the final phase of the upgrade of the IT tools will be completed during the term of this call, which has developed a specific programme for the automatic comparison of data from submitted information with data available by other state bodies. It is a program which, using the given algorithms, analyses the results of the verification itself, comparing the reported and collected data and indicating the observed deviations. In particular, I point out that all information processes are integrated into an office business programme through which individual items are created and managed. Work assignments, enrolment and follow-up deadlines shall be assigned. These are important data and documentation stored on each activity carried out, which means that for each activity, a trace of who has it and when it has been carried out is stored. The content and amount of investments made in the established IT system describes how the Commission was built on the inside and how it gradually developed assumptions for effective and successful work as part of the available means. On the other hand, the way in which the Commission interpreted certain institutes prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the overall practice in the procedures carried out by the Commission testifys to the construction of this institution in its relationship with other state bodies, in relation to officials, to the media and to the public in general. First of all, I would like to remind myself that the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has been in force since 10 March 2011, and that the institutional implementation of this Act has been very short before the entry into force of the current Commission's call at the beginning of 2013. Since by disbanding the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament at the end of 2011, the previous meeting of the Committee lost the quorum necessary for decision-making, and the selection of members of the new Committee was not carried out throughout 2012. A situation which did not exist within a period of more than a year by the law was negatively affected by the perception of the officials of the obligations arising out of that law. Since neither the applicable law was in force in a systematic and consistent manner since it was implemented by the Commission which had no permanent, independent and independent state body, it was necessary to establish, first of all, a system which was sent that the obligations laid down in the provisions of this Act should be respected. In this respect, circumstances have imposed an obligation to initiate and implement a large number of procedures, since even the simplest and clearest rules and provisions were indeed high. All previous reports, as well as the 2016 Work Report, describe experience in the application of this law as well as a large number of problems arising from existing provisions and how the Commission found its answers and solutions. In fact, even though this is not about extensive law, each chapter carries its own obstacles and traps. A number of quite simple issues such as those of who is considered an official, within which time limits the Commission is authorised and obliged to initiate the procedure, who can be considered as an interesting person and what can be considered a business relationship and other similar issues, the law itself does not always give rise to a simple answer. Content of the interpretation of a number of concepts is only given through the practice of the Commission which then checked, and then mainly confirmed the competent administrative courts in connection with the lawsuits of officials against decisions which determine that there has been a violation of the law. In order to establish good practice in the conduct of procedures under the Commission's jurisdiction, continuity is necessary, and it really existed in the term of this call. Statistics in 2016 do not differ significantly more than previous years. In this respect, 40 public meetings were held where a total of 87 decisions on non-starting were taken, 71 decisions to initiate the procedure and 113 final decisions on conflict of interest of officials. Decisions laying down a violation of the law which may be imposed by that law of the prescribed sanctions in 10 cases have imposed a penalty and a total of 403 000 sanctions for the suspension of the net part of the monthly salary of officials. In addition, 181 cases were resolved concerning the applications submitted for the opinion of the Committee. I will mention that on today, the Committee has given almost 900 reasoned opinions and arguments. Some 300 decisions on the non-starting of the procedure and over 400 final decisions have been taken to impose approximately a million and 700 thousand kuna sanctions. Since the number of opinions given is double the number of cases in which the infringement of the law has been found, statistics prove that the Commission is primarily a preventive body. And given that less than 2,000 officials are in the commission's jurisdiction, this total number of completed proceedings is indeed impressive. The Commission's tasks can be roughly divided into three basic groups. These are the procedures relating to the submission and verification of the property report, the submission of an opinion at the request of the officials when they are in doubt how to act and then the conduct of the proceedings to determine whether the official is in conflict with the interests and whether he has committed a breach of the provisions of the law. In the cases of submission and verification, the most significant result of the work of the Commission is the establishment of a register of officials and electronic forms of the Property Report and the establishment of an information system for direct access to other national authorities' databases, in particular the development of an information programme that independently conducts an automatic comparison of the reported and collected data and analyses the results of the verification. In the cases of opinions given at the request of officials, the Commission has built a recognizable system of good practice in managing conflicts of interest and standards of conduct that are reasonably expected from officials. Among the cases in which the law was found to have been broken, two significantly different groups differ. The first type are cases where it is found that there has been an infringement of a certain administrative rule, whether it is a obligation, ban or a restriction for which the infringement is legally prescribed the possibility to impose sanctions. Other types are cases in which the Commission determines that in a particular situation there is some form of conflict of interest of officials or is determined that the official has violated the legal principles of action. In such decisions, however, the Commission does not impose sanctions on the official, because for a situation where there is a conflict of interest and for a situation where the official has not acted in accordance with ethical principles, the law did not prescribe the possibility of imposing sanctions. It is about declarative decisions which are actually an institutional and public condemnation of certain procedures or failures of officials. When making a general assessment of whether progress has been made over the past 5 years in understanding what conflict of interest is and in recognising the duties of officials in the conduct of public duties, and in particular in terms of the obligation to respect ethical principles, experience and practice may have special significance in the 2016 cases. Therefore, in the cases decided by the Commission in 2016 there are cases of highly-positioned officials in which the Commission found that the official was in a situation of potential conflict of interest and that by failing to provide full and timely information to the public, he violated the principles of action. These items from 2016 are certainly neither the first nor the only items of high-ranking officials decided by this committee's assembly. Yes, of course. Among those who have been sanctioned by the Commission for the established infringement of an administrative rule or who have established a breach of the principle of action are a number of members of both previous and previous governments as well as a number of other officials of all levels and all policy options. However, the 2016 items show both officials and the public, and all of us together as a society must continue to develop awareness of the importance of timely recognition of controversial or potentially controversial circumstances and of the importance of proper management of situations of conflict of interest and of the correct distinction of such situations from those in which the official took the next step and thus fell into the sphere of punitive corruption. In decisions in which the Commission has established the existence of a conflict of interest, the Commission has repeatedly called for interpretations of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 7 November 2012 which clearly points out that the conflict of interest, and thus the potential conflict of interest itself is not disputed. It may even be obtained independently of the will of the official himself, following the mere fact that some of the circumstances of his private life are intertwined with powers or obligations in the conduct of a particular public duty. What can be disputed is the way the official managed such a situation or did not manage it at all. Depending on the circumstances of a particular case, if the official fails to do in due time everything necessary to separate his private interests from the public in such a situation, there may be an initiation of any of the prohibited activities or in a difficult case and the initiation of any of the corrupt offences for which the jurisdiction of the commission generally ceases and the jurisdiction of the law enforcement authority begins. As pointed out by the Constitutional Court, the Commission is acting in the preventive sphere of the fight against corruption, therefore institutes prescribed by the provisions of this law necessarily interpret in the spirit of the general purpose of its adoption, which is to prevent private influences on the decision-making process by the public authority, strengthen the integrity, objectivity and impartiality and transparency in the conduct of public duties and strengthen citizens' confidence in public authorities. The conflict of interest exists in all situations where private interest affects or may be considered or may potentially affect impartiality in decision-making. It is resolved by removing or exempting from actions that may sometimes require full distance from the whole process and even from accompanying discussions. The public declaration of the circumstances that compromise the participation of officials in decision-making by establishing objective and impartial criteria on the basis of which the decision will be taken and by increasing transparency of both the official and the body in which the public is acting. The greater the circumstances that compromise the participation of officials in certain processes, the greater the transparency obligations that enable public or citizens to be convinced of the way officials act. When the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished certain powers of the Commission which could possibly be considered strong in one part of the reasoning of the decision, it also called for the jurisprudence of international courts which found that the way officials acted was a matter of general public interest. As one of the principles of action, it is also prescribed by our law that officials are personally responsible for the body or citizens they have chosen or appointed. The experience in the resolved cases has led to the fact that by denying the existence of circumstances that may constitute conflict of interest, by seeking transparency in the work of the officials and the body in which he behaves, the conflict of interest itself will not disappear. These are precisely the absence of a timely and appropriate reaction and the transparent publication of all those data and documentation on the circumstances in which the public has the right to know, officials have violated their own integrity and credibility as well as citizens' trust. In this respect, neither after all the procedures carried out nor from 2016, it can be concluded that all officials and in all situations have developed awareness of the importance of removing any suspicion that public duty has been used to achieve private interests at the expense of the public. On the other hand, the overall number of requests submitted for the opinion and the Commission's guidance shows that part of the officials recognises that trust in public action is the highest capital and that in the external impression they leave with their own actions, they take account. All strategic documents relating to the prevention and prevention of corruption highlight the importance of preventive action and, in the context of this preventive action, the building of ethical principles and values. Indeed, respect for ethical principles and standards of good practice are the best prevention. The tasks of preventive bodies, of course including the commission, shall necessarily include the development of public awareness and accountability, the implementation of educations both by the official and the public. Among other things, this is also achieved by making declarative decisions describing specific situations in which there is a conflict of interest and an action or failure of an official that constitutes an infringement of one of the prescribed ethical principles. In order to succeed in establishing sound preventive mechanisms, however, it is important that no subject in which these circumstances are being reconsidered should be predicated, for example, in such a way that public space is given meaning or weight as if it were a corrupt criminal offence. On the other hand, the purpose of the law cannot be realised even if a particular case remains almost undetected or does not produce any reaction. The Commission, in all cases, has access in the same way and cannot influence the public interest or the way in which a particular case will be reported in the media. Experience shows that the consequences resulting from a particular case sometimes depend largely on this echo in public and political life rather than on the content itself and the severity of a particular case. I mentioned earlier that trust is the highest capital in public action. And that capital is not only important for a single official but also for the public authority itself. I believe that with my approach to work, the way decisions are made, as well as the content of the reasons for these decisions, the commission has been built as an institution that is trusted. And that is the result that obligates the members of the current assembly in the remaining few months until the end of the term of office as well as any subsequent assembly of whoever its member is. In the past 5 years, good foundations have been established in each of the areas of work. Given that this first assembly began almost from scratch, now that significant progress has been made in the development of the institution in the future must also be expected exponentially more. But to succeed better than the one who will leave this behind, it is necessary to improve the legislative framework and provide the commission with greater budgetary resources. It is necessary to extend the circle of officials to all duties with which corruption risk is naturally linked. The Commission’s procedures should clearly define the powers or actions to be taken by the Commission, which must comply with the laws laid down by supervisory authorities in the process of verifying the data contained in the reports submitted. The sanctioning system must also be effective in relation to those officials or former officials who no longer exercise their salary or public duties compensation. The deadlines of action as well as the deadlines of limitation must be clearly defined. Obligations, prohibitions and restrictions during the term of office and, in particular after the term of office, must be the result of a fair balance between the protection of public interest and the legitimate private interests of the official himself. For certain duties, specific rules or exceptions may be laid down to the general rules which are in accordance with the nature of the transaction or with the duties performed by that official. It is necessary to reduce or limit the number of exceptions allowed during the term of office. It is also necessary to sign up for the strengthening of the restrictions on gender relations with legal persons or with those bodies in respect to which the official has the possibility of influence when it comes to business entities owned or owned by members of his family. The implementation of a systematic check of the property report for each report delivered necessarily requires the strengthening of the human capacity of the Commission's budget. Namely, the information tools are only one analytical aid and a basis that facilitates and accelerates certain processes but for the results of the automatic analysis obtained, it is also necessary to carry out an administrative procedure that either justifys a identified discrepancies or takes steps to determine that there has been a breach of the law and that requires new people in the commission who will be well trained to do so. Also relevant international initiatives involving the Commission as well as the obligation to monitor trends and new knowledge in the field of conflicts of interest and to monitor international jurisprudence require strengthening of human capacities and for the purpose of international cooperation. The commission is currently located in an area which does not allow the reception of new employees or employees into the Commission's office. In addition to the above, the problem of paying for the city of Zagreb's claims based on the acquisition without the basis of the use of space after a solution has been abolished which was returned to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the above, budget resources as well as adequate space for the Commission to expand and further institutional development and growth are necessary for the upcoming period. Following all this, I hope the Croatian Parliament accepts this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54420	Thank you very much. The committee reporter won't take the floor, so I'm opening a debate but before that, we have more replicas to present the esteemed president of the commission. And then let's start in order, the first distinguished representative is Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I came forward to say something about this report in the opening statement of Ms. Oreshkovic, it is primarily worth pointing out that the commission made one of the crucial decisions in 2016 where it proved the existence of a conflict of the interests of the HDZ president, which was then followed by the crisis of the authorities, it is a well-known situation for all in Croatia that the president of the HDZ was very often in conflict of interest, but a great thing for this body to show that even the most powerful officials in the Republic of Croatia can be questioned, it was to remind the situation around the INA that Karamarko had and now in this year we also have a conflict of interest in my deep conviction by the Deputy Prime Minister Dalić around the INA where on the one hand she represents or should represent Croatia, and on the other hand her husband is an INA employee and we see a large annual award that Mrs. Dalic has forgotten the prominent card in her property card. However, there she said she had asked for the commission's opinion but she didn't get it, so it would be convenient to see if she finally got the opinion that she should have reported it or not. Another thing I am particularly concerned about and where I am giving full support to the people in the commission is today a very ugly scene by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who, for the normal questions asked by the committee, attacked the president of the Oreshkovic to wage a personal war against her, I would like her to deny it there and say that she does not lead against any of the officials of the personal war but expects normal answers from the President of the Republic of Croatia as well as any other officials who are affected by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54422	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54423	Thank you very much. The commission has a role to play and it is a control mechanism with declarative messages that are very important and very crucial. Let me mention a little before my colleagues that last year in the case of a spouse who was in the "Consultanta" affair, however, a colleague mentioned an example. We have another example in the government of what interests me in the language of the people, we say the arches, because for every criterion, they are all the same, the archin is said in us. I am interested in how you comment that the finance minister is exempt because he was the employee of Agrokor, except for the whole story about Agrokor, and in fact now the public is proven, because he avoids giving an answer that he has been involved all this time in talks with the owner and the government, Mr Todoric and about Agrokor and the government in which they had meetings and on their own and we do not have any response from the commission, and at least it was correct for me to send the commission to ask what appeared in the public of Minister Maric because this is an equitable example of conflict of interest. And the second is also this issue of archaics. If "Consultantica" was and was, I am a participant of that time not long ago, that conflict of interest, then indeed, former Finance Minister Martina Dalic, was appointed her husband, the government named him in the INA, raised her hand and now that the Minister of Economy is directly related to INA and even announced the sale of INA and her husband is in the bodies of the managing INA, it is an equident example to me as well as to the people, the public, conflict of interest rather than in the case of "Consultantica" also in the matter of spouses. Well, if you can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54424	I only draw everyone's attention that this is the Commission's 2016 report, 2016, not 2017. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54425	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has done one big job over the past few years, and we are all aware of that. First of all, not only on specific cases, but on the fact that the awareness of state officials has finally reached the information that there is something called a conflict of interest and that the conduct of public duty is not compatible with some of the other activities of these same people. And that's credit and commission amongst other things. I have two questions, one is, in cases, and these cases have been, that the state body has refused to cooperate with the commission and has denied the delivery of the data requested by the Commission by the state body, which are mechanisms available to the Commission that, if they can, in any way, force the state authority to act in accordance with the law and provide the requested information. Of course, with their answers, state authorities are calling for various laws, quite unfounded or dissipating some interpretation of laws that do not stand. I wouldn't talk about special cases, but we do know that there were those, including when they were hiding around the Privacy Act and they didn't want to give people information because they were protected persons. And the second question is whether there are mechanisms that the commission has to protect itself from political pressures, whether they go through the public or otherwise. Whether it is this Assembly and whether the commission should alarm the Assembly if it feels certain pressures so that the Assembly takes certain activities or whether they are other mechanisms that can be used. Because these statements that we are witnessing today and some MPs before me have mentioned are not really appropriate and do not go into the creation of a quality atmosphere for the work of the commission but can be seen as a pressure on the work of a committee that is not welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54426	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54427	Thank you, Vice President, here's my welcome to the chairman of the committee with his associates. I called in earlier for a replica than I heard about this, that there was no money, that there was a need to expand space, but there was one particular question. Since I personally asked the Committee for Conflict of Interest, it has already been 90 days and there is no answer, so I think maybe it should be answered within about 60 days. One more question, can school principals, school principals who are headmasters be volunteers? We know that, schools are under the authority of regional self-government, or county, but part of the resources and local self-government separates them from schools. And it's my opinion that there's a conflict of interest, after all, because we know that with craftsmen, if he's a mayor or a mayoral craftsman, the community can't do business. And this directly singles out the community parts of the school's money and the school's principal is the mayor even though he's a volunteer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54428	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54429	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, I can only thank you for your work, your work has been valuable, professional and therefore comes from quality. You are a state body that shows an example of how to work in this country, unlike some other officials who are not doing their jobs properly. So I'll just mention some of those who aren't doing their jobs right. Minister Maric has not yet responded to me, Minister Zdravko Maric has not yet answered my parliamentary question asked in February of this year. The prime minister did not answer my parliamentary question more than a month ago, as did Minister Dalic. So they cannot answer one question within the deadline set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament while you decide on a conflict of interest which is a much, much more complex issue than a simple question asked by officials. I therefore invite both MPs and MPs and all other officials in the Republic of Croatia to do jobs like you and will be for example to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54430	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54431	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, I'm interested in the answer to one question. Who is authorized to interpret the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Why? One administrative body has applied for one official to perform a certain duties in associations, whether he is in conflict of interest. Your office said it wasn't in conflict of interest. On this basis, it was entered in the register of associations, based on which the Ministry of Administration and Resolute Ministry of Sports did not react. And then you just happen to get on the horns of the interest groups and then you get some kind of, with all due respect, I don't want to hurt anyone, the inspector from some control office, and he writes in his solution that this official is in conflict of interest. Now if you have the opinion of the Office for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests that you are not in conflict of interest, how someone who works under the same laws as the Office for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest can write a solution, write a report to the Judge for Infractions, etc., under the cover that this official is in conflict of interest. He can appeal to the provisions of another law and now that we have very often laws mutual in cohesion it is another pair of shoes. Either after all that is happening primarily in associations, sports, etc., or we will amend that article of the Sport Act or we will remove Article 14, paragraph 4. The law on preventing conflicts of interest because the two simply don't go together. Because if the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, lex specialis is a law that can be done and done by officials. And if he says in his Article 14, paragraph 4, that he can be led by two non-profit associations for this he cannot receive compensation, then that provision of the Sport Act is too high and simply cannot be applied. So I'm interested in who is interpreting and who can interpret the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, i.e. officials are sure they are or are not in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54432	Thank you very much. Now we'll open the debate and the first one on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed...... And I didn't see, I didn't see the line. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Dear Representative Boris will also have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54433	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, I will have two questions for you. You have quite broadly covered your work review in the opening report practically all five years, so I will ask some questions in view of the practice that has emerged in the work of the commission because I believe that some things have remained unarranged. So we have a case that the conflict of interest has a period of time, meaning the case of the former prime minister, former SDP president and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic was also a representative and director of a company. And you said he was only 15 days in some conflict of interest and for that notice. Someone needs one meeting that lasts 45 minutes to tell them they're in conflict of interest. It means whether there's a conflict of interest in the time limit in which it's estimated whether or not it is. For me personally, either you are or you are not in conflict of interest no matter how long it takes. The second question, I have a number of commissioners, mayors who say they must send to the Committee for the conflict of interest in spatial plans and procedures for the adoption of spatial plans. For what? You are not in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction as a body that should give consent to the adoption of spatial plans. If that's the intensity, then we'll put it in that law and we'll send it to you. If it's not, tell me why we have to send it to you. In which way you will determine certain facts in the system in which the mayor or mayor proposes a spatial plan or a lower order plan, where the council and council members bring it. What does the commission have to do with it? I'd like to know because it's all getting wider and wider now. It means every year's powers keep on going, but they're out of the law. They're not in any law, not in any other law. So I'd like you to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54434	Thank you. As I have already said, I am opening the debate, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Bernarda Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54435	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed presidents and members of the Committee, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian People's Party will support this report, i.e. a report on the Commission's work on the decision on conflict of interest for 2016. We believe that the report has been properly drawn up and that the Commission has done a quality job in the sense that a significant number of decisions have been taken on the metrics as well as a significant number of opinions and indications based on which it has been facilitated by officials in further action and preventing possible conflicts of interest. But what we want to stress is that, as soon as possible, it should go into the amendments and additions to the current Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. In fact, we agreed on this with the Commission last year, i.e. during the 2015 report. But this has not happened to this day. In fact, the applicable law is lacking and illogical, primarily in terms of persons who should be bonded with a property card such as directors and members of the administration, a company of strategic importance for local, regional self-government. Namely, we have a situation where the mayor and the deputys have to submit their property card while the directors of a society where the county is the founder don't have to. It is also the same in some state-owned companies, while on the other hand, the law refers to deputy municipal chiefs, who cannot even be in the board of directors of the institutions or supervisory boards of commercial companies as they are threatened by conflict of interest. Neither the commissioners nor the deputies can be members of the school boards. Even by that principle, they are chosen by the Student Council. Furthermore, the law does not make it clear what would be easier and what would be in serious violation of the legal provisions, so this leaves the possibility of assessing the commission, and what is particularly important when measuring sanctions. Just in part of the fines, I would like to stress that although the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest prescribes sanctions of between 2000 and 40,000 kuna, we believe that the fines that have so far been imposed on officials who have wronged themselves on the law are too low, and by way of payment, and by suspending the payment of the net monthly salary in several wars, the real purpose of this may not be achieved. We know that the possibility of payment is 12 wars. For example, for our citizens, the Executive Law prescribes a suspension of one-third of the income, while here they are, if we consider the receiving of war officials, far less than one-third. Therefore, it is necessary to comply with this law and with other horizontal regulations. I mentioned the amount of fines and the possibility of payment given to officials in the wars by suspending net wages precisely for the reason that officials should be an example and strengthen the confidence of citizens in public authorities, while at the same time we have a disproportionate proportion in measuring the penalties of citizens by the tax administration. Thus, the services for tax administration misdemeanors impose dragon penalties regardless of the severity and consequence of the violation of the law. Recently in the media, we had an example of a fine of 30 thousand kuna for 80 kuna extra in the register. Citizens and legal persons shall receive a solution to the blockade and shall not have the possibility to pay tax debt to wars unless they submit a request for the conclusion of an administrative contract and the same shall be granted after the verification of the entire assets. Finally, the report states that the commission is initiating further actions and actions against an official who does not submit a report on the property situation after taking office. So I would ask the chairman of the committee to finally comment on whether the commission was explaining or notifying the employer, i.e. The public authority shall ensure that the official does not pay the salary because he has not submitted the property card and all in accordance with paragraph 12. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I'll point out once again that the HNS will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54436	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the honourable representative Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54437	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Committee with members, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The HDZ will support the Commission's 2016 Commission's work on conflict of interest. But let me, through a few sentences, only comment on the report, point to some clean and spelling inaccuracies in the report itself and some doubts concerning the work of the commission itself. And what's already in the replicas here is a misunderstanding about how much the commission can only interpret the law that I think is most controversial in the work of the commission all these years. In any case, we support the fact that the work of public officials is being controlled as much as possible and I think that much has been achieved over the past five years that there is a professional commission formed by the 2011 law. But I also think that we should make it very clear to say the rules of the game that we all need to act on, and then it would be a lot easier for all of us together. And to us Parliamentarians, and to all public officials, and to the commission itself. The report itself repeatedly stated that since the commission had no, since some things in the law were not most clearly interpreted, it merely brought criteria and established good practices as to how they would act. Unfortunately, I don't think that's right. This is not right for me, because, or should it have been done then, in such cases, to first give notices or warn officials about it and to say that this is the way it is done and not to go straight into punishing officials who may or may not have known that officials and Article 3 I think quite accurately determine which officials they are and the commission has, on some occasion, spread that concept of public officials and much wider than that set out in Article 3. And I think that's where I should agree with both the chairman of the commission and all those who have spoken to go into the amendments to the law that would make it very clear who, what can or should not do. In itself, this report consists of 12 points, i.e. 13 points, if you haven't noticed point 7 you have twice mentioned under two different names as decisions on conflict of interest, you have also under 7 administrative disputes, so de facto you have 13 of these points under which you are talking about. It's probably a slip. It's not some big mistake. Also in the introductory section on page 6 when you talk about, on page 6 it means when you talk about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests you state National No. 163/03, I assume you were referring to the National Journal 26/11 because in this National Journal it was published in the 2011 Law. We have one sentence relating to the Constitutional Court's decision of 7 November 2012 which, in that most important part of this decision, abolished the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which are prescribed that the Commission has the right to determine the facts of its own actions and then prescribed that the banking and other financial institutions are obliged, without delay at the request of the Commission, to deliver the infected notices and evidence, I suppose it should write the requested one, it's also, it's a little clumsy, it's quite a word, but it's a copy mistake, it's no big failure, it has to be corrected. As regards the organisation of the commission's work, you have indicated in this second section how many employees, clear president, four members and an administrative section, or the Commission's office. It is interesting here to say that the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament worked financial and legal affairs until 1.1.2016 and then took over the commission and immediately used external services to perform these services and it is paid at an annual level of 67 and a half thousand kuna. There are two companies here that do this. But it also says in the report itself, that two referents, which means they charge the commission, are doing the job, and that basically only those from foreign companies are just controlling that part. So I'm asking if maybe the General Affairs Office of the Croatian Parliament is still controlling those two references, and then we wouldn't pay 67 and a half thousand kn. In this point, you also list these problems that you cited in your opening presentation, which are the problems of ownership over the area in which the commission is present, because there is obviously a dispute between the state and the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb neatly exposes to you accounts that you do not pay and that has risen, this report speaks nearly 300,000 kn. I hope that as soon as possible and as soon as possible, as you say, this will not come as an obligation, then to the Commission itself or, or to the state budget. We have a point, in this point is the information project, and here you state that you are technical and humanely sub-capacitated, but in 2014 and 2015 the project is informational, i.e. in 2016, which is also very advanced. And let's just say, the recording of our official today is very detailed and much more detailed than it was at the beginning of the commission's work. And with some information improvements, it's expected to be even stronger. We, like the HDZ Club, welcome it. We don't take note of the need to investigate everything, but it would be good for some other bodies to work this precisely, because sometimes we public officials feel like we're the only ones on the range, and the mass of it goes under the radar of some other services that should do a better job. The third point of verification of the employee's property status report, you reiterated once again the statistics you listed in the introduction. And perhaps to point out that, compared to 2015, there was an improvement in the reporting process in 2016. So in 2015 we had 465 misrepresented reports in 2016 that number dropped to 21%. And that's where he'd ask one question, just for a practical reason. You state that the report is being sent in electronic form, but by law, which I am nowhere, I have to admit, I have managed to find, necessarily submit it and in writing, signed by officials. Which, in my view, complicates and bureaucratises the entire system, and especially that part, which I don't think is going anywhere, that the employer's clearance, or, specifically, for us parliamentary representatives, should also be stated by the secretariat of the assembly. I don't think there's anything in the law, and I don't think that's necessary. Or maybe I'm wrong. As far as point 4 is concerned, these are opinions, and I think that there is a key first sentence, a proactive, preventive action, the basic and most important task of the committee on the decision-making of conflict of interest, and I think that my opinion, that some times the commission should have, was primarily guided by this fact and by this provision, and that it should not have gone into some sanctions that were ultimately imposed. We have them there when the rulings of the administrative courts are cited, that some decisions by the committees have been annulled or returned to retrial, precisely because certain sanctions have been imposed, where the administrative court has concluded that they should not have been so rigorous. Under point 5, we have decisions on non-starting procedures, we have 77 decisions, plus 80, which are said to be not in charge of those persons, which were requested to initiate the procedure. Under point 6 of the decision to initiate proceedings, we see from that chart, that's the most, because of the violation of Articles 8 and 9. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Then we have decisions on conflict of interest. In 2016, 114 cases were completed and 96 were found to be a violation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And then we have a point 7 administrative disputes. This is, in my opinion, the point in the report that it could have been, and it didn't have to be, but apparently it wanted to highlight some of the disputes, which started, some started with decisions from earlier years, so the administrative court, and in one case the Constitutional Court, made decisions in 2016, and it was precisely these cases that were highlighted as a particular example. And then there's an example of the first Deputy Prime Minister and that time of the HDZ president. I don't know what the criteria for these cases are for this report, but I can assume. We have you talking about education, which I'm sure you need. Education at 2 levels means education of members of the commission itself, but also education by the Commission towards public officials, mainly at those levels on units of local self-government and regional self-government. International co-operation is either way to greet. Relations with the public, so I think the commission has a very good relationship with the public and that the work of the commission is largely monitored, which is not bad in any case, just as one esteemed fellow MP here said, should have the same archaics, that is, the same criteria for all. And like this, I'm afraid that some cases are deliberately pushed into the first place, and some are not talked about that much. As regards the Commission’s budget in point 11, which is supposed to be 12, a little more than 4.5 million kuna was spent in 2016. And clearly in the assessment of the situation, a higher budget is required, a higher number of employees, more space for these employees. And in that case, the Commission could do even better to carry out its tasks. I can agree with that and that's probably true but I think that the key to doing the commission's tasks is what I stated at the beginning, and that's what some predecessors mentioned, it's the adoption of a new law or the addition of this law, which would clearly specify the powers of the commission and the obligations of public officials so that we don't all have problems together, and I think it would be much easier to work with the commission itself. By the way, I'll just mention that in this report, the Constitutional Court is mentioned 60 times, the Constitutional Court's decision in this way, that way. Obviously, the Commission alone is not satisfied with the decisions of the Constitutional Court where it has denied them part of jurisdiction but the Constitutional Court, decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected and I don't think I'm going to enter into who's right but I don't think it's good that after those decisions, the commission has taken the right to interpret some of the provisions of the law. I think it was still necessary to address whoever made this law to interpret those decisions because in this way, I repeat again to me as public officials de facto we do not know what we are and how we behave in certain situations. I don't know, it's said that, it states that before we enter into some kind of behavior that might be possible, which might be in conflict of interest to ask the Commission a question. And what if in a situation where we are not aware that any behavior would be in conflict of interest rather than to come to that knowledge later or someone warned us about it. In such a case, you say that when we send a question in this regard to the committee, it turns out that we have reported ourselves, it is in this report, I think that it is a precipice attitude and that it should not be treated as such by public officials except in situations where it is very clear that it is trying to play the law. Finally, I repeat again the HDZ will support this report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54438	Thank you very much. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, a few sentences that you said at the beginning of your presentation actually moved me to a replica, it would be more of a correction of an incorrect people but we no longer have that institute. So you're saying that the commission is a little too rigid, that it imposes penalties not to warn, and that punishment should be imposed, that is, caution should be given, not immediately, to the sentence. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that the commission is here to enforce the law. If the law does not know the Institute of Warning, then the commission is the only thing that can be established and the sanctions established. So I hope you don't call on the commission not to enforce the law. And the other thing is, you say some of them are being punished and some officials who don't even know they're officials themselves. Well, dear fellow, first of all, let's remind ourselves of those Latin ones from the right to ignore legions non excusat, that's the first thing. And the other thing is, if you're elected mayor, mayor, congressman or appointed assistant, State Secretary, Minister, and you don't know that you're a state official, then we have a slightly bigger problem if you ask me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54440	The answer to the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54441	My dear colleague, of course, I didn't think, that I wasn't thinking about these state officials you've listed here right now, but there are some government officials at lower levels, or public officials at lower levels in local self-government units who, according to the interpretation of the commission, are on some edge as public officials, and here he mentioned fellow Madjer that he should also be head of school as a public official but he's not. So we have some other examples. And Article 3 of the Law accurately lists who are public officials. There are 45 items, and that is still in paragraph 1, and that is still in paragraph 1 and still in paragraph 2, to which the provisions of this law apply further. And it's my opinion that outside that circle we wouldn't be able to interpret that anyone else is a public official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54442	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54443	Dear colleague Felak, of course, it is not possible to prescribe all the acts that have been prohibited by law but we must leave it to the commission to make decisions. I don't have to agree with all the decisions. Maybe the commission's gonna slap someone once in a while and we don't think that's justified. But I think that the commission in its action primarily built that institution, that ultimately it would lead to a situation that would prevent officials from making certain decisions that are actually conflicting of interest. And yes, of course, if someone believes that the commission has exceeded its powers to always have an institute of this dispute before the administrative court. So in that sense, of course, we'll never all be satisfied with certain decisions. But what's problematic to me, I feel like you've supported this report, but then you've listed certain things that you don't like, you've even asked for spelling mistakes to maybe in perspective, and we all know there's a new choice going on, so that you can make certain decisions. What's not good at all, and we can see that now I'm reading here in the media, that the president is calling and saying that the commission against her is waging a personal war. So anyone against whom no decision has been made which he does not like could be called upon and say it is not good at all and I think we all have to build this institution together, change the law if something is unclear or can be improved, but not every decision or procedure is perceived as a personal war against someone. That's how you cited the case of the Prime Minister Tomislav Karamark and you don't like why he's in the report, it makes absolutely sense to me because it was one of the most important decisions in this year that we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54444	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54445	Dear fellow Grumoja, I can fully agree with you in the work of your replica, so you should support the work of the commission, sometimes we agree with decisions, sometimes not, but I did what I said that the law itself should make the rules of the game much clearer and that then it would be much easier for all of us. To both our officials and our own committee. As far as this review of the president is concerned, I am not here to comment on her review but it is symptomatic that today an article and a statement by Mrs. Oreshkovic on the second page on the work of the commission and what the commission will take in the case of the president if it turns out that she participated in a birthday celebration with a certain person. It is interesting that the coincidence is precisely with today's day when this House is having a debate on this report on the work of the Commission for 2016, and allow Mr. Grmoya, regardless of your smile, I am a little longer than you in the policy and I have stopped believing in fairy tales a long time ago, so I don't believe that this is an accident today either. And I'm saying, the president's reaction and I'm not invited to talk about it or I intend to, I think Mrs. President knows how to show herself and defend herself if she has to defend herself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54446	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54447	Dear colleagues, there is one saying that says, this has statistics, it has larger statistics, it has things bigger lies. That can't be said about this committee today, I think that... Inside this vacuum in the Croatian society where we have unsettled laws, where we have a date is a merger of political elites at a higher, strategic and local level and it is only a fact of how much it is addressed to the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I have some questions, I can't answer because I'm not a lawyer. Is it worth the conflict of interest for, if it can be retroactively activated on the issue, there are people sitting in this House, who have robbed state-owned companies, today are politicians, sitting there without, it still has immunity, there are such characters here, I'm not going to talk about names, etc. There's a lot of them here and in that vacuum of ours, in that legal swamp, I think this job, it's a pretty good job. As far as the Constitution is concerned, our Constitution seems to be written with a pen, it can be changed daily. And what about the laws, the constitutional laws and the laws themselves. We're missing that one, we're still missing it. This morning we've been listening to a report, and here we have a wonderfully haired situation that everything is perfect and where's the implementation plan? Who is responsible for this implementation plan? Di is centralized planning between, say, a commission that may work and a vacuum, not perhaps but works in a vacuum, between USKOK, other state institutions, the MUP because that's how the state is built and the cancer of the Croatian state is corruption that prevents investment and that's wound cancer, I repeat here every day. The cancer of everyone's wounds... Guys, and he knows... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, other ministries should co-operate to improve the situation on corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54448	Thank you. Here's a response from the esteemed representative Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54449	Dear fellow Glasnović, I can agree with the work of your presentation or replica, I think the greatest part of this was not a replica of my presentation. Also with what you've ended up with, means the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest has its powers, but they concern conflict of interest. About these other things you said, there are other bodies in the Republic of Croatia that should be dealt with, and I guess we all expect that they will do their job, and that these more difficult forms of crime will be called crime, and that it is not a conflict of interest, that they will do so and that they will properly treat those who have committed such acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54450	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54451	Thank you very much. My colleague Felak, and we here at this Vishko home when we're passing laws should be clearer and more specific, so someone when he proposed amendments to the Sport Act did not have the courage to say a sentence to the end but wrote a provision. Great persons who cannot be members of the board of directors or supervisory boards of the company under the Company Act and the law governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. So all sports organisations are associations. What does the Trade Society Act have to do with them? Second, there is no law that regulates but has a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which defines in its Article 14(4), who can be the head of the association, and in Article 14(1) where it cannot be, and these are the administrations of companies, but in Article 14(2) says that in companies in which the State declares them of particular national interest, officials may be members of the Supervisory Board. And now you look here... And it's all good until you find yourself in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest tells you that you are not in conflict of interest. The inspector shall then come to you and refer to Article 14(1). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And sports associations aren't companies. But I repeat, there's a responsibility to us when we make laws, so we have to keep an eye on the so-called. bound by laws. It happens to us these days about a law that is at this point a first-class political matter. So when we bring something, then we have to change all the laws that are related to it, because this is how we bring the Commission into a very difficult situation, we bring inspectorial services that do their job in a very difficult situation. Because look, the Sports Act says that also Croatian teams cannot play in a regional competition without the consent of the National Alliance. You have one league playing without the consent of the National Union. But very interesting, there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54452	Ladies, you can have a little bit of yourself. We can let go a little bit. Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54453	Dear fellow Shuker, I believe you know the Sport Act much better than I do because you've dealt with it, you've dealt with it a lot, and here, as you mention, and certain inspections have dealt with meanings for you in terms of that Sport Act. When you talk about this Article 14, I think you mean paragraph 5 that officials may be members of administrative and supervisory bodies at most of two non-profit associations and trusts, but without the right to compensation or to receive a gift in that role other than the right to compensation for travel and other eligible costs. So that's very clear to me that it can be, but here as it is said to some, it's not about the meaning of the Commission itself that gave you the right to be at the head of the basketball alliance, but obviously some other laws or that law interprets in a different way. And I'm saying this once again here that we should go to the amendments to this law or the adoption of a new law that would make things more clear and then there would be no misunderstanding. We'll never be able to do as he said, and it seems to me to me that my colleague Grumo is making it all the way through the law. But let's just say what has been visible so far in practice and through the commission's work that have been inconceivable, the commission has interpreted it in one way. If we all agree with that, or at least most of us in this House, then let's get it into the law, and in the future it'll be a lot easier. Also count which officials must not lead the alliance. Here will soon be elected the president of the Croatian Football Federation, which is the most interesting in the country, so I would like to know what the commission thinks about whether the current representative can be the president of the Football Federation if he leaves his post as a member of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54454	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next club of representatives, and that's that GLAS and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54455	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. The report that is in front of us in some way has a note of bitterness, because, in fact, speaking to the president of the commission actually sublimes somewhere a five-year term of its mandate, of course underlining 2016 which was extremely important because it was extremely interesting. There were a whole series of cases through which further practice could be built. But what the Commission does every year in its report is, and what we particularly the Government regularly ignore is a whole series of recommendations that need to be done to avoid situations where the Commission has found itself, in which the public once with less or more understanding has criticised the work of the commission, and on the other hand, there has been an area where there have been doubts in which one part of the public is actually not really understanding the very essence of the problem of preventing conflicts of interest actually referred to criticism as that the commission is wrong that it does not write or write something in the law. So, the commission has already asked the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to approach the amendments to the law and to use everything seen in the practice of the Commission's work to define and model a well-defined system in which the Commission will be much easier to work and if you want to narrow down the space for any kind of discretion, where then the criteria and all that may be disputed will be fully clear until the end, where it will not have to be reconstructed and where such analogies will not have to be maintained because things will be clearer. So there's a whole series of doubts. And if we only took these last five reports, we could count at least 20 or 30 large cases of practice, which should actually be written down as rules. Let us remember the conditions under which the commission worked, for example, until 2014 when it was not informed at all. Remember that we submitted our property cards in writing and that those thousands were then processed manually there. In 2014 and 15th, the information of the entire system that made it easier for the Commission to be important because at least physically the part that they had previously had to devote themselves to could actually be allocated to real work, to the processing of two thousand and some of the things they were dealing with in 2016. We've seen in the media here and there some information on the level of punishment prescribed by 10, 15, 20,000. It leaves the impression that I don't know how much of it. When you add it all together and subtract it in 2016, officials in total amounting to 403,000 kuna were given per tail. It's nothing compared to the fact that, say, more than two hundred and some officials haven't laundered their cards, but it's easy to do. Our como is that despite the fact that the commission regularly publishes opinions and the questions of those who are in doubt what to do, it gives believers who are actually a model of behavior, we continue to send them questions, as if never before asked us the same thing. And we're actually creating them additional obligations, each time from the beginning, to explain what's either clearly written in the law or solved earlier in a whole series of cases. When university professors do that, it's only a problem. Easy for us who aren't. Who come here for the first time, so for the first time, let's face the obligations arising from several laws. First of all, about preventing conflicts of interest, then later and about this connected. In any case, we also have one dose of great responsibility, because it is the Croatian Parliament that passed the law. We have been listening for years that the law needs to be changed, done, perfected, aligned with the practice of those who have gone beyond us and nothing. The government is not responding at all, eventually it will be aware that the interest of state officials, or at least the majority that there is such an unspeakable matrix, in which there is a hole, so that the commission actually works in what we seek the circumstances. If that's the intention, then it's not good. We need to know that Croatia is one of the few countries that has solved this system in this way. For example, we could learn that when we tried to bring the ethical code of the Croatian Parliament. Because by ethical code, many parliaments are resolving the issue of conflict of interest, and in our case it is already settled by law. How? That's it, but it's settled. And then it turns out that we in the ethical code, we can count some general places here and invite people to be clear every day, dear, nice, to be polite, to behave politely, and we're about to stop there. It is the ethics of the Croatian Parliament, written in that proposal for an ethical code. Many other countries do not have such a law. But they have built a firm practice that is important, among other things, regarding officials to their own public function and responsibility, but also public relations to them. How is it possible for a mayor to get a few sentences, because he didn't mention his assets and it's seen from the plane that he did it on purpose, that he was in complete disrepair with his salary and all of his family's incomes and his total assets. So obviously it's something that's not normal. And nothing to anyone. Here he is, the third term mayor. Now that you're the ruling majority bring him this lex sheriff, he'll put his finger in his ear and tell both the commission and all of us, just sing. So, the system isn't fixed. For years, the commission has been demanding that it be regulated at points where it is imperfect or poorly solved or not sufficiently clearly solved. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to approach this issue seriously and not to punish the bearer of such news and we will see very soon whether you decided to complete the mandate and formally not to approve it again in the case of Mrs Oreshkovic. We will see if it was the practice of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest, i.e. the decision to conflict of interest, may have cut someone off before the measure, so he resented it. But in any case, I especially appreciate that the commission has not been given the impression of someone's duty. The fact that one is the President of the Republic, every honor to it, but it is her task, the duty of the President of the Republic to perform in such a way that it does not lead to doubt, honesty, honesty and full capacity to perform and duties in the best possible way. That the Home Office refuses to give information about the direction of its movement, for something that happened two or three years ago, it's a scandal. It certainly does not endanger its security in any way, but it endangers the way to fight corruption, the way to fight conflict of interest. So, this case, an eclative case, which certainly shouldn't have happened and which presidents shouldn't have. As a result, it remains a very bitter impression, that the commission has to deal with it again, by pushing it out into the open. All of us who are government officials, we bear responsibility for maintaining the dignity of our duties. With our own behavior, so if you want to be willing to support yourself, because no one is infallible, in time, if we don't know anything, let's ask, if we cause any damage to cover it. And when we make a mistake, and it can happen to anyone, especially administrative, that we don't consider it personal pressure on ourselves or make a circus out of it, or make it a victim. Every public speech, every one of our public actions, every one of us using public space, the public funds we've been entrusted with, from whether or not we're driving to state spending and when and when we don't have to, some of us, because there have been cases of sending some of the board presidents in this House on Saturdays the drivers to take their newspaper home. There have been cases of agents driving around to go to practice with their grandkids. There were all kinds of cases. And if we went into that history of ours we'd see that we were all bloody under the skin one way or another, someone more, someone less. But these practices should be dodied, as should prevent these situations from being accused of all of us now because someone intended to buy some luxurious, luxurious equipment for the Croatian Parliament. It turns out that we decided and that we were automatically in conflict of interest. That is why we need to be careful what we do because the poor rating of the Croatian Parliament and the bad grades that citizens give us first and foremost come from who we are. Did we have to turn ourselves only into a voting machine that follows a government that, by its nature, wants to control the area of jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament or we have performed our duty properly and all state officials are also on all duties. Now we have the latest case of a state secretary who's in a major scandal. We had until yesterday a mayor's case that was impossible to relieve, all of which are situations that need to be resolved. Where there is no law, it is decided to plead on our conscience. If we won't have it and we won't show it to the citizens? And because the vote club and HSU are concerned we will support this report as well as all the previous and wish the commission to work in better circumstances, to have more resources, to finally open a public debate on the needs of supplementing this law and also to strengthen the entire system of preventing conflicts of interest in our interest and in the interests of the entire public. So the Voice will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54456	Thank you very much. We have a longer sequence of replicas. The first one came from a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Beus-Richembergh, I must agree with you and underline some arguments and strengthen the arguments you have made in your presentation. And that is that we are critical of the work of the commission, we are critical of the work of some other institutions, and what we should be critical of and what we should discuss is ignored. And we should discuss the law, the lack of law because the commission is the one that enforces the law. We should also discuss recommendations that the commission and a whole series of other institutions that this House of Commons has appointed. I get the feeling that we're constantly focusing on the wrong things, we're constantly dealing with daily politics instead of the actual content of this report, and that's exactly what I said. The recommendations that the commission gives, for example, and the lawyers are extremely important and should be a guide to us as a legislative body how our legislation, or laws in this regard, adapt and improve to be optimal and that we have one enforceable and effective law. We criticise the institution of the commission which should be an independent institution appointed by the Croatian Parliament of Deprived Policy, which is there to enforce the law and oversee officials or prevents conflict of interest. We instead of empowering this institution, as I said, so by discussing the law, the recommendations, I have the feeling that we are constantly undermining that institution, ourselves who we have appointed and established. And not only this institution, I'm going to remind you, in 2016, how embarrassingly we have submitted ourselves to the report of the attorney general. I'll remind you what's going on right now with the child's attorney. So we ourselves jump into our mouths instead of strengthening our institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54458	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54459	Col. Hajdukovic, it is not news to the Government that all those appointed by the Croatian Parliament, so all regulatory bodies, supervisory bodies such as defenders, and this commission and the facto government are getting on their nerves. Why? Because she has one completely abnormal guard. So these bodies that protect the interests of the public and citizens above all, regularly give very good recommendations and a whole series of very concrete and quality initiatives by proposing to the executive authority who, by nature of things, is the one that people complain about changing practice and also making regulations better and providing themselves with a more comfortable position to do as little mistakes as possible. But the government doesn't consider it an attack, and then, of course, the defense attorneys, maybe even this commission. If Mr Kuščević, the minister of the administration, had spent at least half of his energy on changes to this law and a public debate on what it looks like to be complete or somehow a perfect system of preventing conflicts of interest compared to how much it costs to explain to us now that lex sheriffs are very good and that without it Croatia can't function we would have one big problem solved. And what are we doing? The practice shows that the largest number of government officials, public officials concerned by complaints in terms of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, are just the mayors, mayors and mayors and we are now still delivering a ton of new opportunities to rule alone, that no one asks them for heroic health for four years, and in particular that it does not come to his mind. in the last year of the term of office when the entire drive of local self-government will serve as its pre-election campaign. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54460	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54461	My dear colleague, I would just like to say one thought to you, which is that the Committee does not deal with this conflict of interest in the greatest and worst conflict of interest, and that is these cats with Agrokora. Namely, the figures went from Agrokor to the government and from the government to Agrokor, i.e. from the ministries and bosses of Ivica Todorovic, involved from former governors people further and vice versa. Then the people who served the boss would go to responsible functions at the Ministry of Finance, etc. And now what's going on? The Commission has not said once, so this is the question of these transfers from the corporate sector to the state and vice versa. That's normal, but at the same time they called me to ask me, I don't know if I'm in a conflict of interest because I don't know how to promote a club, I don't know how to caricate for 200, 300 kuna. So they're dealing with unserious things, and it's an unserious institution, unfortunately, like this whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54462	The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54463	The fact that in the case of Agrokor there have been huge conflicts of interest I agree with you and it seems to me that this commission is not able to solve any of it in terms of its scope. This revolving dors system government, Agrokor, government, Agrokor we looked at on several occasions and in several cases. Turns out Agrokor was actually a place for art. Imagine a private company. But like I said. Todoric was good for many, he hired many women, husbands, friends, relatives, all of them good. And he really is one of the great Samaritans when it comes to Croatian politics, call Hansel to hire you. But no kidding, Mr. Pernar, please don't ever promote anything again for 200, 300 or any kuna. That's how you estradize your duty as parliamentary representative. You do everything you do, you do it from the heart, you do it for free because you have to do it according to the law. Don't charge it. We're not consultants.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54464	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54465	Thank you very much, Mr. Beus Richembergh. In your debate, you also mentioned some illogicalities in the law, and one of these is certain that it does not change for years, for example, that when you complete your term in office. Then you can't start a company and become the CEO of a company that has zero kuna income. But you can if you're Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and become CEO of Agrokor and get paid 40, 50, 60,000 kuna. That's not the problem. We have the law and what I want to say and what I say is the most disturbing thing about the commission. It's no problem that every violation is sanctioned and shown, but the problem is when you can't see a tree from that whole forest. I think it's a hundred times more conflict of interest to go as Secretary of State to the Ministry of Finance for Executive Director in Agrokor, be careful which place. To the Executive Director of Capital Markets. So what you've been doing in the country is now going to work in Agrokor. And then once again, zürick, after five years from Agrokor to the state. Jozo Petrovic, Tomica Karamarko and here we are. Now it's a conflict of interest that may not be sanctioned by law, it may not be sanctioned by law, but in principle it's the greatest conflict of interest this government has now and they refuse to admit it. And they'd still scare the MPs if they didn't talk about it. That movie won't look! We'll talk it out here loud and clear!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54466	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Glasovac Please! [[Intruder Beus Richembergh: I have reported the answer.]] Please! Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Intruder Beus Richembergh: I reported an answer.]] Please don't throw it out of the bench. ... My friend, please don't throw him off the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please, colleague Beus Richembergh will respond. Here's my colleague, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54467	Comrade Maras, I can understand Ivica Todorovic that the best personnel wherever he finds them, but I also understood that the system established by your laws, which is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of State officials who said that after the end of his term of office a year could not actually do something that would be directly in the conflict of interest, or that would in any way reflect on his public duty so far or where the exercise of public office could actually please his employer. And that's why the institute 6+6 was introduced. And when fellow MOST colleagues came across that institute we told them nicely to comply with a few regulations. Don't leave people without bread on the road because no one can hire them. That's why we need to come up with these models carefully. If we want to narrow down the area of corruption, if we want to narrow down the space of bargaining, then let's introduce a model like that that won't allow Marić to work in Agrokor for at least a year, or anyone who comes from the state service, who won't allow Rohatinski what he's allowed him to do, especially not to let the boss buy his company and set him straight. The woman's company, it's legal and the woman's under the weather like we are, the family member, so it's all about investigating a potential conflict of interest. So, in that sense, if we want to build a better system, here's what we propose to Minister Lovri Kuštević to do. Let him look at the reports of the commission for the last five years and all the recommendations they made in terms of the amendments to the law and let's do this job right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54468	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54469	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Beus Richembergh, you have raised all the important questions. The first legal framework under which the commission has been working there since 2000 when the first law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was passed, in 2003, I think that the commission is being formed for the first time and then we have such a gap in work since 2011 was actually not as serious a commission as it can be read. It was actually but the results were weak. And in 2013, the commission starts, at least that's how I see it more seriously. If we also take into account the Constitutional Court's decision in 2012, when part of them, it means a motion for resolution from the functions of those who are not subject to the Rema Law and in fact that the Commission cannot access banking and other data. However, what concerns mean between 2003 and 2014, and you mentioned it, until then it was actually a bureaucratic body that pedestrians had to check all the allegations that officials were doing. So it took about 11 years to even use information and everything we have in mind. And now what is the conclusion of this and what did you emphasize? What do we really want? We want to have some bureaucratic body to check, which will be buried with piles of paper, officials who keep reporting when we have frequent elections, and the beginning of the term of office, I'm not saying it's bad, but we really need the commission to deal with these things, or really detect key problems, and they do, in their reports and quotes, a key problem in this society that can't happen, as you say and there are such cases, that the official doesn't have property. How does he not have the property, what does he live on? So there's something suspicious about it, and it should be automatic, and all the data that the IRS has, which other institutions have to deal with, otherwise, then the commission stays alone, turns out that only the Commission is fighting corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54470	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54471	So if the banking institutions don't want to give or the IRS don't want to give information, if the IDP doesn't want to give information, then the commission can't work normally, it's quite clear. I, in one case, saw from their one decision that they made a huge effort in one application against a local leader who, by comparing what he reported in his property card with a real state, and be careful, for a real stop, they believed or didn't, went to comb whether under his name and his family's name he had more real estate, they actually found a bunch of it. If they hadn't done it, if they had just believed what he wrote, it would have been all wonderful and wonderful, and this is how we found that in eight years of his term every year, but every year he provided a valuable property with a salary of 14 and a half thousand kuna. Well, good for him. If it were for us to discover that formula so that we could stretch it out, those 14,000 kunas, that every year we have one new real estate. And like I said, a man chosen for the third time as mayor. So in this country, you have to be a crook, a cheater, a liar, so that I guess enough people recognize you as the face behind which you need to stand. I don't want to believe it, but that's what the election results and statistics say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54472	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Beus Richembergh, the work of the commission is good, it is not perfect, it is not ideal, there is still enough to work, there are many shortcomings but we can all agree that it is satisfactory, even when we disagree with all their decisions and it is not much and they are not themselves to blame, we are as you have said several times because we have not made certain legal frameworks that they can work on, and sometimes they have to deal with the situation that they can't, what can't, what is their jurisdiction, what isn't. And it is our job to bend them and change all these laws and create them a framework so that they can work harder and better in the future, and it's a lot different than it was 4.5 years ago. But in fact, you have said to your debate, as many colleagues today, that you are essentially afraid that the special exposure of their colleagues to HDZ is, in the introduction, perhaps not to give a new mandate to this committee meeting, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. I think, you're all afraid that it won't happen, that it will be removed, and only as far as I've been able to figure out from your debate, you mean because of the Tomislav Kramark case where the commission independently made a decision right in 2016, which resulted in all those events. I'm just thinking the opposite. Both of you and all the colleagues here who said that. Why? Because HDZ works by the chief's principle and they're doing everything the boss tells you to do. And their boss is currently Andrej Plenkovic. Andrej Plenkovic would never have been the boss if the commission hadn't made the decision it made. Because Karamarko would not fall, Plenkovic would not be the head of HDZ, MOST would be in the government today, and probably you would still be a member of the HNS, but much has changed precisely because of this 2016 commission decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54474	The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54475	My colleague Đujic, I appreciate your efforts for psychic forecasts, or reconstruction, but you know if everything was so ideal, the world would be much better than it is, but unpredictable things happen. What I was going to say anyway is that the commission by nature sees things in this House both father and mother. The commission was appointed by the Croatian Parliament and the commission corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. Here, the commission seeks refuge, not only criticism, not only commendation but also some guidance, encouragement for its work. The Commission should not fear the Government or anyone in the executive functions. As long as the Croatian Parliament considers the commission to be an extremely important institution in the repression of a gray space of conflict of interest which is an ipso facto corruption. As long as the commission has the support of the Croatian Parliament, this job will be done more or less successfully, it also depends on technical, financial and many other conditions. But the Croatian Parliament cannot and must not, for one second, discourage its own commission. He just needs to be encouraged to get better. And if there happens to be some kind of guidance from the executive authority that this composition of the commission does not show confidence in the new mandate, consider carefully whether it is wise to do so. Who's going to do it anymore then if that happens? And will someone be chosen by some other criteria to listen to what is said on the phone or otherwise. Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54476	Thank you. Next replica. ... Go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54477	I've been looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54478	What break? There's no pause at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54479	How come there's no pause?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54480	I don't see her here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54481	There must be a break allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54482	So what are you looking for a sledgehammer about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54483	I want to talk to Stan about how the commission doesn't do its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54484	You can't, you can't ask for a break on what's the agenda point. So you can get involved in the debate, you can pick up the replica, you can do anything, but you can't get a break on that topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54485	Then there will be a break on the subject of non-functionality of state institutions, Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54486	That's what you need to get back to me, after we've determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54487	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54488	Here's when we do another one. No, I can't. [[Here I am again, please allow me, I have the right to take a break.]] There's still a line now, so you'll come back later, then, right now I can't tell you because you're looking for something that's unfortunately not in line with the Rules of Procedure. ... It's not according to the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So according to the Rules of Procedure, you can't ask for a break for the agenda, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54489	Mr. Jandrokovic, I said I'm looking for a break now for another reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54490	No, you just made that up because you didn't get a break for this. You can look for a break later, at this point you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54491	Well, look, Mr. Jandrokovic, it's my right to ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54492	So it's my right not to give you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54493	It is not your right. You must allow Mr. Jandrokovic. [[Intruder President: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54494	So you failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure to request a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54495	Sir, I asked for a break, I answered my word, another time, and I asked for a break. I have the right to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54496	You have the right to take a break, but now you're asking for a break for what you have no right to do. So I'm begging you, now I'm going to give Comrade Pernar, let me ask you nicely, in order to meet everything that the Rules of Procedure foresees, I will now give you more replicas, then report for a break, then I will give you a break if you will give it a good articulation. [[But then I told you, I answered immediately in a row and I said I was looking for another reason.]] How about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54497	Yes, thank you, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54498	Okay. So the next replica is a distinguished colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54499	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Beus, in your presentation on behalf of the club you pointed out, i.e. to suggest that you have shown some kind of concern that in choosing the new composition of the commission due to some questioning of the special cases of the great Croatian powers, you might question the trust of the people who have so far, but I will dare say, have done their job quite correctly. I have to admit, this atmosphere doesn't smell good to me today, and it seems like some kind of deja vu. This is how we had a similar discussion, this kind of thing, and it's like a prenup to replace our child's attorney. And I really don't want to be a spokeswoman here, or Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, or Mrs. Milas Klaric, or Laura Vidovic tomorrow, or possibly a lawyer for gender equality, these are all responsible women who are doing their job correctly, but I want very publicly to represent independence, independence of state institutions. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest was established as a permanent, independent and independent state body with significantly reduced powers in relation to the commission by parliamentary representatives and their timely representatives of prominent citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I would hate to see that in a few months we would testify that politics, or the parliamentary majority, once again wants to put their paws and political influence to be instrumentalised by independent state bodies. That's a direction we shouldn't go in. And somehow, this whole atmosphere and the plot that's going on here seems like the foreplay we've already seen before, let's say, the law popularly called Milas-Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54500	Thank you for your response to the replica of colleague Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54501	Dear fellow Glasovac, I think that analogy may be somewhere in the spirit of good but in the performance not because, for example, the HDZ, in this case, the Ombudsman for children couldn't simply wait for the end of the term of office, it would have been too much than he went to the most radical variant of changing the law to bring down the attorney immediately. There is no need for this anxiety here, so the commission stands out, Mrs. Oreshkovic is running out of mandate, they will keep the water in their teeth without having a problem to get that mandate out of the way now, and then we will see what they propose, as far as the new composition is concerned, whether it was very similar in analogy with the prosecutor for children, or perhaps it is about the willingness to continue through the fight against conflicts of interest. I always hope for a better one and I say that every day is a historic chance for HDZ to show, that it wants to be on the defender of democratic freedoms and practices in the Republic of Croatia from today on, and that it wants to be the bearer of the standards of democratic values in this country. And today he wants to say goodbye to all those who don't want to. Get away from us, we are the country's main democratic party, modelled by the European regiments. We won't let you marginals, you radicals, wear a hat in this country. To you who have never been through an election to influence our state policy. We will influence, because we were in the election and we are relative, whatever winners. I really think every day is a good day for HDZ to make such a decision, but who knows, I'm not Djuic that I have psychic tendencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54502	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54503	Respect, I request a 10-minute recess due to the state of affairs, due to the dysfunction of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54504	Okay. Do you let your colleague Glasnović give the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54505	I'm letting go, General, of nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54506	Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54507	Dear colleague like this, everything we've been discussing here these months, it comes down to one thing, we hear, values, morals, etc. So I think why are we looking at the current situation, why are we where we are now? Here... The Indians, the inhabitants of ancient Egypt, had more developed spirituality and moral... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Education than we do here now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that? You have ancient Egypt, it weighs heart, the sinners go there, they go there to death in the plows of the Water Horse, and the others in the Nirvan, and what we have here, which is the root of all this. Why are we... A moral ethical code? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do we have a picture of the Prince of the Trees how so? I worked for 10 years in law enforcement, in Canada, simple laws, the administration was professional. I learned, as a soldier, that every meeting produces action. Where is this action in these months? Why don't we have night courts simple laws, is there even in the Penal Code, when we talk about conflict of interest, what's conflict of interest? Is the conflict of interest to the past committee, where former staff, UDBA, parties, discuss the past. That's what I said before, so much so that the gypsies of the gypsies are investigating themselves. What are we talking about? Everything we're looking at today, about the consequences of something. It means confiscation, nationalization, so you have 1,000 mass graves, no DNA analysis. The Americans are coming here for two airmen. And we fear and talk about the rule of law, etc. How come this one, where the rabbit lies in the bush? In this rabbit that we, totally killed that, in most nations, this spiritual intelligence and moral instinct were killed. Here's some people laughing here, whose bosses robbed state-owned companies. It has one here character and another head, some have escaped here. What about them? Who's coming for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54508	Thank you. Is there no answer to the replica, or is there no reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54509	Mr. Glasnović, dear colleague, I long to answer you. And I try every time you replicate me to catch something and it escapes me. So many topics actually run this, that it's impossible to answer. Look out, that's a miracle. And this question, in which rabbit lies a bush, I can't answer that I don't know what kind of rabbit I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54510	Comrade Pernar, can I ask you something? We still have one replica, colleague Shucker, and then we'd... He can't, Shuker can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. And if we have to have a 10-minute break, or if we can. We can move on right now. Okay. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54511	Dear ladies and gentlemen. That Croatian institutions don't work, we all know that. So there's no need for further explanation. But I'm going to give an example, something that I don't know what else to call it, but by trading privileged information. What was that about? Ante Ramljak, before passing the Lex Agrokor itself, even a month or more before, meets with representatives of Nightshade Capital, means this vulture's fund. Why does it matter? It's why, at that point it was irrelevant, what, who's Ante Ramljak, the law doesn't have, we don't have a Commissioner on Agrokor etc. However, the important question will later be raised, because we never found out who wrote lex Agrokor or lex anyway, lex Todorovic. But later we learned that this same Ante Ramljak, who negotiated with that Nightshade vulture fund, later became a commissioner and went to the hands of that fund that would actually get, or, in fact, make twice as much as he invested, unlike all other Agrokor creditors, who would lose, at least 80% of what they invested. So the logical question is why did Ante Ramljak go to talk to the representatives of Nightshade Capital? Now, maybe they were talking about weather forecasts. Maybe they were talking about, I don't know, sports, Davor Shucker, no matter who. However, there is a high probability, and I suppose it is obvious, that he went to talk to them, precisely on these vulture loans, i.e. their roles in the future opening up of the Agrokora situation. And paradoxically, although it is billions, literally billions, although it will only profit the vultures from America, the work and torture of the Croatian people, and Croatian producers and workers lose, no one question whether Mr. Ante Ramljak had any privileged information. Whether he knew anything before other actors in the whole story, nor was it questioned how, as he would say, he would dare say, he was even in conflict of interest. But personally, I have experience that I've been called from at least that's what people who sit behind my back, from that, I won't call the agencies but I don't know what to call them, the Committee of Conflict of Interest. To ask me, Mr. Pernar, is it true that you've charged for, say, going to a club or something? And Mr. Beus Richembergh immediately caught that detail as these scavengers and he completely drew attention to the being and the essence of the matter are these billions that will pass through Croatia and that the commission is doing nothing and that the commission is dealing with trivial things while ignoring important things. The bits ignore it. And so is the entire Croatian state. So if you have two grams of marijuana, you'll be screened as a drug dealer, etc., and if you steal billions, then you'll be texting the Prime Minister, you'll be texting him like this over a blog, and he'll say, "Here you are, you're what you are, and so on." So this is one shame from the work of state institutions and unfortunately it's not Mr. Beus Richembergh's fault, it's just the whole people, the people don't understand the essence, the people get the details. The people do not realize that the aim of an example of a picturesque cartoon is to point to the absurd and paradox rather than to question whether something is ok or not and whether I am doing it or not. But the goal was to point out the problem that the commission deals with several hundred kunas and does not deal with billions of euros. That was the goal. And so I say, all these state institutions were working in the same way as the commission, smuggling the extra kuna, tax administration, and Todorovic, who paid for years of non-existent profits and did not pay any profit tax with it, was not dealt with by any state institution. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has nothing to do with it. This is all a circus, a show, and this is a dust throw in the eyes of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54512	Okay. Now we're going back to the replicas. The last replica of counterpart Richembergu is colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Beus, I called in a replica for two things. One is, you were talking about information and when we talk about the independence of the bodies that need to be given in this House, then we, as a Parliament, have to think about it when it comes to budgeting, to allow them to work well. And I'm sure this commission with HANFA is one of the most important independent institutions. But it's this high house in 2012. HANFU in a certain way put into frames, took independence, probably that some things might happen that happened afterwards. Why am I saying that? Because I was warning some things about this pay phone back then. The second thing, remember fellow Beus when we passed the OIB Act, we had a general consensus in this assembly, everyone was thrilled. However, who pulled the OIB manual in 2012? And what's crucial is that it's your central register. And Mrs. Oreshkovic or anyone else who should be working in any institution should not be looking for this or that information. It was a precisely signed protocol that the state institution could obtain data from that central register that it needed to carry out the operations. However, it obviously bothered someone in this country to finally see a blood count of all of us. And you would also see the beauty of the ownership of all the companies that OIBA was with. But then I was handled by the ministry, the story stopped and the OIB didn't basically go to 50, 60% of the rest today. It falls that colleague Oreskovic has the possibility as well as others, as the State's Attorney's Office signed with the IRS and the Customs Administration on the line so that he can get some information without anyone knowing that certain investigations are being conducted. Then we could talk about real independence. And why am I saying that? And that's what I'm gonna end up with. And that's about yours, and that's the need to change the law. For every report and independent institution guides us to the Assembly [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] If the existing laws are good, I apologize. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Shucker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54515	Comrade Shuker, I have no reason not to believe you that this great project OIBA has slowed down. But then I wonder if that's how it is if HDZ gets into that story so honestly and openly, so she's got her own finance minister, how much already? Almost two years, Zdravko Marića. So why don't he just drop it all together and get into second gear and get that OIB from 60% to 100% of its possibilities. So the finance minister, I don't know, I don't know, I don't think he's a member of the HDZ, but certainly the HDZ quota in that government, the prime minister supports him to the extent that he defended him here with both hands and feet until the last vote. The whole government kind of throws out huge criticisms because it keeps it still where it is, because of this Agrokor affair. If he is so capable and if it is so important to introduce the OIB in all its capacities, here's a chance for you to give it to the new year to do so Mr. Marić, I don't know what to cross it, so it's been a year and a half in that saddle, that he may not be among those who may not be among those who also want to brake it. I don't believe it. I think HDZ will do everything it can to stop corruption in this country, that we absolutely have insight into all doubtful cases, in property conditions, in income with every case where someone has 14 thousand kunas of salary and has an asset worth 5.6 million euros will be examined and that everyone will get per tail. So it's not about whether it's 200 million or 200 kuna, it's about the law and what isn't, so it's all in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54516	Okay. Let's move on to the next debate. Club of representatives of the Independent Lists and esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54517	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest with members, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the 2016 Commission Report, which will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Most, as he did with an earlier report. This is practically the final report of the current composition of the commission. We are about to have a procedure to elect a new commission, and therefore this report is not just a report on last year's work but can be seen as a summary of the work of this commission over the past five years. The old Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was adopted in 2003, was in force until the adoption of this existing law in 2011, entrusted the law to an old commission which was then drawn up from the ranks of MPs and some respected public employees. However, this new law of 2011 has prescribed the establishment of a Commission to decide on conflict of interest as a permanent, independent and independent state body performing the tasks of its work and competence. And of course, what is important by law is explicitly forbidden any form of influence on the work of the commission that could endanger its independence and independence in making decisions from its work. Of course, in many cases the new law with the new composition of the commission has also contributed to a different picture of work and positive evaluations of the commission's work over the past few years. However, let us remind ourselves that although the law was passed in 2011 the commission was not elected immediately afterwards. It was only in February 2013 that the commission began to work. This shows the severe paternity of the commission, which, together with the legal framework, was, in my opinion, the result of the European negotiators' demands at the time in the process of joining the European Union. At the time, I was an external member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system at the time of the adoption of this law, and I am well aware of the context of its adoption. There was then a lot of EU insistence on a series of provisions that did not have most EU member states in their regulatory legal framework at all. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in November 2012 which abolished several provisions in almost 10 articles of the existing law had an important impact on the scope of the Commission's powers and today, I would say, a law which lacks certain mechanisms in which the commission would fully make the relevant roles to be played. However, the fact is that the law is almost not changed except in a few smaller provisions, which is not really the responsibility of the commission, but of this Croatian Parliament. Because the Constitutional Court has abolished the important provisions that should have allowed the Commission to determine the facts of its own actions, that banking and other financial institutions are obliged without delay at the request of the Commission to deliver the requested notices and evidence. Provisions resulting from the Commission’s verification procedure have also been abolished to establish a discrepancy or disproportionateness in the property of officials, etc. What should certainly be pointed out in the work of the commission in recent years is, in particular, their work on the publication of the report on the property status of officials, on the establishment of the register of officials and what I would point out to the most important, and that was the most important thing about the work of the commission, it is a proactive preventive action. That is exactly what the commission considers to be one of its basic, even most important tasks. The text of the report also says that it is proactively so that during the days of interpretation and instructions, standards of good practice are built and developed, and clear instructions and expectations are drawn up from those who perform public duties. It was in that part that the commission had to act frequently through the interpretation of the law with its opinions and decisions and in that part, even in today’s debate, that was the most reprehensible. Because individual decisions, some opinions differed in terms of individual officials. But the fact is that, in our opinion, this role of the commission was inevitable because of a relatively cold law that, in its entire formulation, never really began to work in the work of the commission that actually started working after the Constitutional Court's decision. And this commission has never received a new whole-to-do legislative framework. It was forced to actually just create one good practice. In this, we can say that there were also wrong decisions and that there were decisions that each individual representative in this House would disagree personally. But in our opinion, the commission was doing the right thing regardless of individual decisions. And in any case, we and the Representatives' Club support such an approach to the commission that has created a solid practice that will certainly be important in the work of every future composition of this committee. Over the past five years, the commission has initiated hundreds of procedures for violating certain provisions of the law by officials. Mostly due to injuries in the delivery of the property report. Furthermore, Article 5, which prescribes the principles of action of officials, in particular in the part where they must act with honor, honest and responsibleness and where their public duty must not be used for the personal breakthrough or breach of a person associated with them. Article 14 concerning membership in administrative bodies and supervisory committees and Article 7 relating to the prohibited activities of officials. The fact is that the commission is not an anti-corruption committee, so it does not determine the corruption of officials. There are no instruments for this, especially after the Constitutional Court's decision, unlike, for example, Slovenia which has a Commission to prevent corruption. In its report, the Commission provides certain examples from 2016 which it considers important. What we would like to point out in this report is that, in fact, all these decisions and this debate that the commission actually had to have by making its decisions and opinions in the proceedings that were later conducted before the Administrative Courts, that is, one decision before the Constitutional Court. In fact, we have a dialogue between the commission and the courts that needs to contribute to a better understanding of the Institute of Conflict of Interest and the interpretation of the Law on the work of the future commission. Of course, in the decisions of the commission, there can also be some who are later challenged and which has been respected by the Administrative Court of Appeal, but of course it is inevitable in the work of each body. But in any case, it should be said that the commission and it is visible from the report in a large number of these situations were right, and it is not in some cases that it is not. Over the past 5 years, the commission has managed in our opinion to create a significant decision-making base and opinions that will certainly affect the work of each future commission. In this regard, in the opinion of the Most Representatives Club, the Committee on Conflict of Interest has fully confirmed its existence as an important, independent and impartial body contributing to the transparency of public action of officials. And without an individual decision that we do not always have to agree with, the commission carried out its tasks impartially and independently, which is exactly the most important thing for the work of this body and its perception in the public. And it may be important to say, because there are countless reports of various bodies that we receive in this Croatian Assembly. This is a report by the body that actually completes its first five-year term and should be said and it is never enough to repeat that the Commission on the decision of conflict of interest is a good story which has succeeded in contrast to perhaps some of the other bodies that have proved themselves in practice and in this sense our positive assessment of this report should also be a guideline for the work of each new composition regardless of the individual decisions that individual officials will not agree with. At the end of what is important to us, the Croatian Parliament has not essentially changed the legislative framework on which the Committee on Conflict of Interest would act. And that's what we consider a problem. Because it's been left with the fur law, there's been plenty of room left for the commission to kind of proactively interpret the law. That's what some of you pointed out in the debate that it wasn't the best solution. But it is primarily the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. The first two and a half years after the Constitutional Court decision in power was the SDP with coalition partners, so it bears the part of responsibility. Now that responsibility has been transferred to the top party of the ruling majority, it is the Croatian Democratic Community. Therefore, it is our responsibility, and now we need to say once again from this pay phone, let us change the law in view of everything we know now in practice, in the decisions and opinions of the commission, in what we ourselves have seen should be changed. We are just given the opportunity to allow the new commission to be elected soon to have one better quality legislative framework in which they will not have to interpret or seek the meaning of the legal provisions, but will have a better quality arrangement in which they will be more clearly prescribed and for officials what their behaviour is expected to be. And that there would be no debate as it was today that officials sometimes did not know what they were forbidden to do or act as officials and what their obligations were in accordance with the law. Although I must say that every official should first read this law very well, and secondly read it. I do not believe that there will then be problems that are transparent and correct and fair and honorable in his duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54518	We have six replicas with this last fellow Bulls. So we're moving out of the esteemed colleague of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54519	My dear colleague, here's a commendation for your debate. She was principled and talked about those things that needed to be changed. What was not good in today's debate is the attempt of certain MPs to talk about individual cases, to put pressure on the commission through this. For all the situations where they have some suspicion of a conflict of interest, here's a colleague, Maras, talking about Minister Maric. My colleague Pernar was talking about Mr. Ramljak. It would be good to report it to the Committee for Conflict of Interest if there are any elements. What I didn't like, here I was putting pressure on the chair to give my colleague Pernar a break. He used it to answer his colleagues to Beus ’ mention, or mention, of him in the context of the commission. He himself protested against why the commission called him at all and why he must answer their inquiry, and I consider it to be a clear conflict of interest to their inquiry, and I consider it to be a clear conflict of interest. If my colleague Pernar went to a certain club to promote that club, he'd get the money for it. It's a pure conflict of interest. He used it, so what the citizens chose him for, his visibility, that's why he got the money to promote them. So someone can give him money tomorrow or any of us to promote certain interests here in the Croatian Parliament or someone can give us money to keep quiet about certain things which is absolutely unacceptable. My colleague Pernar used to quote the Bible here a lot. I would quote Luke 16,10 "Who is unfaithful in a small thing and in a large one is unfaithful." So he said that what he has won is that it is not a problem and that Ramljak has turned billions So we should stick to who we are, guard the honor of Parliamentarians, and not abuse our function. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54520	Okay. Celebrity's celibacy to them is subject to other laws. We know that. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54521	I did not speak on behalf of the club about any individual case and it would be inappropriate, because this report by the Commission is important to me because it speaks about all officials on the creation of good practice. And what's important regardless of all the individual decisions, and there have been hundreds in the past almost five years, and I probably haven't done any statistical analysis. I suppose that officials from a large number of political parties at different levels and different state bodies have in some way experienced that the commission has decided on them and that it has sanctioned them. Thus, by saying this, anyone could find an excuse to say that the commission had damaged someone. But we just have to go the other way. We said that the commission must be independent and impartial and that's the key thing. Individual decisions will sometimes not please any official or any political party, but in general, despite what we are the ones to which this law applies, we are the ones who are under increased commission. The key is that the commission works independently and impartially. And when it comes to the end of our term of office, we can be sure it's exactly what it was doing. Our position on behalf of the club is that it is precisely the fact that we believe the commission passed the exam, that it has just worked independently and impartially, therefore, on each individual decision, and there have been hundreds and hundreds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54522	A colleague of the Voice, another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54523	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Podolnjak, I agree with most of what was said in your debate, and also with the part where you said that during his part of the mandate, the SDP failed to amend, let's say, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests in order to facilitate the commission in a way that makes it easier for the commission not to interpret the law and has to resolve certain subjects simply because it cannot stop certain processes. But then it was left to itself and then some decisions were liked by some officials, and other officials did not like it on the other hand. However, it never occurred to us, no matter what we failed to do, that through this Croatian House, Parliament, when we had most of the debate on the report of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, we were pressured by some decisions of the commission, no matter how much we or our officials did not like it at times. I can mention specifically my colleague Varga. But it never occurred to us that we were using his or her other example here, where he was shown to have hurt certain items and we were not putting pressure on the members and members of the commission. Here today we have an opportunity to see that because of certain individual cases, because of the holes in the Sport Act, the gaps in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest are actually blamed for the one who has to bring some kind of justice, and the laws are full of holes. We are the ones who are responsible for correcting this will express myself so guilty of Drina, to improve the laws, not to blame the commission. Imagine that this commission has more powers than it had before 2011, consisted of parliamentary representatives and public employees, as I have already said which could, let's say these 133 officials I'll see you later. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54524	Replication response, please. ... I'm asking you to talk outside the assembly. [[/The Intruder Voter, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54525	Look, if you look at the November 2012 Constitutional Court's careful decision, they will see that they have abolished the significant provisions of the existing law that have never been replaced by any other normative provisions. And look at us in 2013 and when we entered EU membership, we felt that we no longer had any particular obligation to develop this normative framework that would better regulate the issue of conflict of interest, regardless of what we saw certain normative shortcomings. And in some ways, it may be a fact that while we were preparing for membership and we were under the influence of the EU, we had to pass laws that we had very detailedly prescribed and even much more detailedly than the EU Member States did. They've asked us far, far more than they've installed themselves. But the fact that, after that, when there is no longer this incentive that we have to regulate something better that we have actually stopped looking for better solutions, and maybe that's why we five years after the Constitutional Court's decision didn't even touch that framework, and we all complain that we're not satisfied, or many complain that there are solutions that aren't good, that we haven't changed the laws, etc. The responsibility is ours, this Croatian Parliament, of course, along with the government or the competent ministry that should propose it. But there's no point in complaining, not changing the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54526	Third replica, esteemed colleague Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54527	I thank the President of the Parliament. So here are the previous partners, they can agree with the conclusion that the commission has been difficult to come by, in difficult conditions, although almost all the state officials are declaring themselves to work as a committee that needs to be impartial and independent, we see that in nature it is not so and exactly the fact that they apply one of the fur law in which they determine some literal conflicts of interest. On the other hand, we have the fact that individual representatives in their property cards may have more than their income declared, this remains under the radar because the commission is not competent to determine such cases. So these are the big gaps that we have left and that we, as a legislative body, must resolve rather than transfer responsibility to the commission. I have answered the replica just as I was prompted by the quote of a respected colleague of the Dolnjak, in which he states that the commission may have made a lot of wrong decisions. I didn't understand that part, do you mean the wrong decisions in the sense that there's no real conflict of interest because there's not a commission enough power because when you look at the Commission's report, it means his judicial oversight, you see that the grades are fantastic. The Administrative Court has confirmed almost all decisions made by the Commission. So the commission law applies well and on the other hand we have a problem with the bad law and the inability of the commission to apply the law where and in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54528	Answer to the replica of my colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54529	If it was unclear, I said somewhere in the debate that there were decisions that individually do not have to agree with both MPs and political parties and representatives' clubs but I said in the debate that most of the decisions taken by the commission and which were questioned in the Administrative Court were not disputed. So, they passed the test according to that, they don't work most of the time, and in any case I think that if there was a decision that maybe we're individual now that we don't think they're good in some segment, it doesn't mean that, but we didn't even dispute them. So we can think that some decision could have been different but the fact is that the commission works within which it works, but in any case, it's absolutely the position of us as a club that the commission worked very well. That's our final score.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54530	Thank you. The fourth replica, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54531	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Podolnjak, I am glad that you mentioned this, I think it should be pointed out once again, there is no need for conflict of interest to interfere with corruption, however, conflict of interest is the cornerstone of corruption. Here we have people from the commission who certainly have the greatest influence in the Republic of Croatia in the fight against corruption. We need to distinguish three degrees here. The first is actually a potential conflict of interest in which some official is currently not in conflict of interest but in the future he can make such decisions that he can come into conflict of interest. That's what he needs to be warned about. There is a conflict of interest where it is clear that there is such a form of action of an individual official, that he is in conflict of interest, between private and public. And a third degree. If there is a conflict of interest, then corruption. So, both this report and the work of the commission, I'm looking at in terms of prevention, it's important to emphasize. So this is about preventing or preventing corruption before it took place. When corruption comes, then it's already too late and then actually the commission has nothing to do with it anymore. That's where other institutions in the state should work. And I think that the Republic of Croatia has done a lot in this area, but what you are warning the same, which is the legal framework that should still be given, not in the sense of persecution as it is usually thought, will not be done by the commission of what the BOOK or other law enforcement is doing, but rather by the fact that data can be realized or when there is a potential conflict of interest or a real conflict of interest. In the end, we also made a commitment to the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers 10/2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54532	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54533	When I said that the commission does not have all those powers to be treated as an anti-corruption body, it is precisely because it lacks mechanisms that would therefore be necessary. I would personally like to, and now I speak personally, that the commission has far greater weight in terms of detecting not only conflicts of interest but also potential corrupt action. For example, it is a very good body for me as it exists in Slovenia, so the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption but it has far greater powers to search for certain data and get certain information that may actually come to the conclusion that some official has actually acquired far more assets than he could have, what he is talking about, for example, by a colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh in his presentation. Such a commission, which would also have such powers, would therefore have teeth that could act more firmly in this direction not only preventively towards conflict of interest but also preventably against any possible corruption in the public action of any official. It would be a commission on which I would like to work on a normative framework in due time and I think that this commission would then have much more weight and I believe that there is a need for a stronger commission in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54534	Fifth replica, dear colleague Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54535	Thank you very much. Comrade Podolnjak, you spoke in your discussion of bias and impartiality in the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. So we can talk about it, that's again, let's say, the category is personal. I think it's biased or not biased, depending on the case. But why was there an important definition of why a picture of bias was created? Because this commission was voted without opposition in 2013. So 84 MPs voted in favour of the Kukuriku coalition's five-member commission and refused to hear anything else. It was already at the beginning of a heavy burden for that commission. And each of the following cases was observed in relation to that fact. And then we had a case, and here I mentioned it today, so I'm going to mention it I'm going to compare it to another case. We have a case of Zoran Milanovic, whose commission is sitting and making a decision that he did not, or I don't know, whether he was in conflict of interest, because you won't read it anywhere, only a statement was issued in which someone forgot something administratively, for 15 days he was a director and a representative and received a warning. You have the case of God Petrova, who has been declared to have been in conflict of interest, because here, I don't know, he appointed one of his brother-in-law as mayor in the supervisory board of a municipal company, although this company was owned by several local self-governments and they all had to give consent to that. And you can defend yourself after that as much as you want. When you're convicted of a commission, it looks like you've been convicted of not knowing which court, even worse. With a little media support, you become a criminal in some way. And that's not the commission's job. Even though we already have behavior, then let's treat the warning equally. And not one can warn, and nothing is in conflict, but the other also in conflict. So we need to find a measure of that bias.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54536	Thank you. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54537	Thank you. You try to get me back on that ski slope to talk about individual cases. Not exactly. I repeat, you can find individual decisions, where there will be a different opinion of the officials, who have been under the wing of the commission and for whom the commission has found that in some segment it has violated the law. But the official can appeal to the Administrative Court, in the final line, to the Constitutional Court, and in the final line, it happened in one case described in the report, that the official finally won his legal battle at the Constitutional Court. So at the end of the story, he still won and proved himself wrong. The fact is, I didn't know the information, which you pointed out, that it was such a division, in the selection of the Commission in 2013, but I hope, when we choose a new composition of the commission, that it won't be met again on most of the opposite minorities. That it is possible to reach some consensus, which will not be literally, something like this vote in which you have indicated that the parliamentary majority voted, and that the opposition has actually been left out. I guess there's going to be more candidates, we're going to vote in secret, and we're going to choose the best composition of the commission for the next five years. That's what I expect and what I wish we had when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54538	And last in line, 6th is a colleague of Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54539	Thank you very much. Comrade Podolnjak, you said in your debate, an independent and impartial commission on conflict of interest, that is the ultimate goal, and that commission also has a role to play in this way, but where the water is clouded, from where it needs to be cleared. The Croatian society, and mainly in the largest body, is obviously clouded by normity, too many laws that are not harmonised, therefore, is clouded all to get as little out as possible. And of course, the commission is in one awkward situation in making certain decisions and conclusions. I believe that at key moments, despite what fellow Boric listed some things, which are less important, agreed or disagreed, at an important point made a proper decision and I expect it in the future, to make what, in this whole mistrust in people's mistrust and in the judiciary, which they call the wrong courts, because we simply don't have trials that individuals, citizens, or businessmen believe, are one of the brakes of development. And let alone a commission in which in this indignity, in which everyone said that no law is in conformity, from the Law on Sports, the Law on Associations, the Law and simply means, our norms are not in line, and the guilty is the source. The source is this body, with the support of the meaning of all who propose laws, so the government of the resolution ministries, which should comply with all the laws and thus this body, the commission should work. So independent and impartial. But the key is that a little, a little while ago, we heard, and a colleague of Grmoya repeated, that a parliamentary representative was charging for his stay at the nightclub. Well, neither is Pretty Brenna, or now I have no idea of a singer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54540	Thank you. Comrade Downhill, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54541	Let me once again highlight this normative framework, but the fact is that first of all it is necessary to defend the commission as an independent and impartial body. We don't have that kind of, like, bodies that have worked very well anyway. Here, for example, the Committee on Conflict of Interest, or the Commissioner for Information, which also proved to be a single body, which we founded a few years ago and which, in fact, seems to be doing well and quality work, which we see every year from its decisions and reports. So we have bodies that we have formed and that work very well for us to strengthen transparency, correctness, honorably perform our duties, reveal information that the public has the right to know. All of this actually contributes to the transparency that we need so much to act. Not only the Croatian Parliament, but all state bodies. And that's why we have to protect those bodies. No matter how many individual decisions individual representatives disagree with. They have the legal means of contesting these decisions, having the Administration's court, eventually having the possibility of a constitutional suit to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it is not the final right of the Commission to decide conflicts of interest as the final decision is neither the information commissioner, there is always the possibility of the Administrative Court, etc., therefore it should always be borne in mind that if each official considers that the Commission has not made the right opinion or decision, he has the possibility to appeal, has the possibility of obtaining a dispute, thus safeguarding his rights and reputation in the extreme line when he receives the dispute before the competent court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54542	Thank you, comrade Podolnjak. We are now moving on to the next discussion of SDP's Club of Representatives and the respected Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54543	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Mrs. Oreshkovic with co-workers. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the SDP club will support the Commission's report on the prevention of conflicts of interest for 2016 because it is very real, detailed, well explained and reasoned. As with all the years so far, it shows that with these very modest financial frameworks, with very under the capacitated, I do not mean in terms of expertise but in the number of human resources, however managed to go a step further, in some way in line with all the years so far, but a step forward in all those outlined goals which ultimately interest this Croatian Parliament by passing the law itself, the first Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public duty, then after 2011 only the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And actually everything that's set up as a task ahead of you. We can see that unfortunately in this country there are a lot of resources, let's say, for combat planes, but there's no means for, say, some small applications you need to improve the process and speed up the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. We see that it is employed regardless, okay, Croatia is no longer in such a crisis in which it was 2, 3 or 4 years ago, but we can be rational in spending, and we can stick to some employment bans if it is not necessary, but we can see that unfortunately the administration is booming, that in the Ministry of Science and Education, I often mention it, is not the subject, but I have to say, we have 10 government officials, simply because all currents within the ruling set cannot be reconciled and agreed, so the previous ones whose minister does not trust and appoints new ones, but there are no 1, 2, 3 people who would mean a lot to you in your work. Not only, but to the entire Republic of Croatia and to us officials who have very consciously entered the sphere of political and other life, no one has forced us to accept certain obligations and duties. We accepted, we weren't forced. In doing so, we accepted a certain responsibility, obtained rights, but I guess we were aware of what these rights bear with them, and what kind of public action we should follow or at least strive to do so. Of course it can always be wrong, knowledge, not knowledge, but it's good that when we're already accepting some public duties, at least we know what's expected of us. So let's say the information in your report is that even 133 officials failed to hand over their property cards to me simply astoundingly. And now imagine that you have the powers that had the commission before you, so I will mention the commission again by 2011, which in some way concerned the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties by parliamentary representatives from the ranks of the position and opposition in one piece, and in another, public employees. And they had huge powers, they had the authority not only to react upon application either anonymously or not anonymously, but also to carry out independent investigations to come to some knowledge and find out they had a conflict of interest somewhere. They had the opportunity to determine the disproportionateness or discrepancies between the property card, which you do not have today. You can only compare the data you are dedicated to with the data available to you from other state institutions and that is that. There's no further. You are that commission, let's say, if the official hadn't handed over the property card or handed over an incomplete or untrue property card, that commission had the authority to automatically invite you to resign. So you don't have that authority that these 133 officials today who we see here haven't even handed over their property cards, that we're not talking about others who may have knowingly or unconsciously failed or failed to show up, you don't have the authority to say look, file your resignations... So imagine if you had all these powers that had a commission before you to make it difficult for you to work, and it's hard for you now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's hard for you and now because, I'm going to repeat, just for the record, I speak for the club, I said it in one replica, you're a professional body that the commission before you was not by its composition. And you are a body that needs constant, independently, you are a permanent, independent and independent state body and is banned from any form of influence on committees that could endanger its independence and independence of action and you are not actually engaged in ordinary citizens, this Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest actually defines, as one of my colleagues said in one of the discussions of previous years, what is allowed for citizens is not allowed by state officials. They are not allowed, and very often state officials have a certain power and very often feel pressure on the work of the commission, if not direct political pressure, then very often the commission is exposed to press pressure and it is not easy with some bad legal solutions, I am not just saying the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but there was also the Law on Sports and the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials and now today's debate is actually in the big part, I dare say, don't blame me on that freedom is missed. Because we are talking about some bad or not good legal decisions made by this Croatian Parliament that we do not change, and on the basis of which the commission has made some decisions or based on some gaps in the law, it has actually had to take some kind of attitude to solve certain items. And now, really, as my colleague Beus said a few hours ago, it turns out that Mrs Oreshkovic's personal credibility and the institutions and members of the commission is being put on the line because of something that they are not really guilty of and are not responsible for because responsibility for good or bad legal solutions is a good thing to implement this commission. The bad that needs to be implemented, or taken care of, this commission is actually in the Croatian Parliament's jurisdiction. So what do we do tomorrow? What one will do is because this is another couple of stories, there's what the Dalmatians would say, which is constantly being apostropheeded today in an individual discussion. Why did some get rid of each other as if they were not allowed to question each other? And why some didn't open up, because there's someone who thinks they should have opened up. It is not good for us to communicate in this way as parliamentary representatives, because we come from certain political parties. After all, by voting and discussing the acceptance or non-acceptance of the report, and we know last year which two reports were not accepted in this Croatian Assembly of the same independent institutions. She is the Ombudsman for children and female attorney in this Croatian Assembly not with many arguments those who hold water. Enough of these ideological ones, enough of this same partial assessment of one political option. Reports have been rejected, which has been a sort of overture and message, although the attorney general is otherwise regulated, so it cannot be removed because of the non-acceptance of the report but it has been sent a certain message from the parliamentary majority. And the D.A.'s office for the kids, we saw how it ended. It couldn't be replaced because the report wasn't accepted, it could have been formally legal, but it couldn't, because the conclusion wasn't formulated in a way that it wasn't accepted, it was different, so you couldn't have done it. It would be controversial in some other instances, so you decided to bring in lex Milas Klaric to resolve it elegantly in the middle of the term. You won't have that problem here if you decide to thank this committee, they won't have to break it through a special law in half the term of office. They're running out of mandate, but that wouldn't be good. If that is your intention, if your debate today should have been a basis for showing the public that this commission was politically instructed, how it was doing what was not supposed to do because someone had instructed him or didn't do something again because it was under some influence, so tomorrow you could find an excuse for choosing maybe some people who would work on some kind of a political dictatorship I don't think that's a good way to go. What we really need all of us, regardless of which parliamentary parties we come here to guard, is the independence of the institutions. 'Cause look, what most people say today is, tomorrow isn't and let's not get some stuff on our heads. The European Commission also warns us that we need to protect those high standards, i.e. they are not yet the highest standards of European democracy, but they are certainly higher than they were a few years ago. This commission was established a few years ago, his powers were reduced by the Constitutional Court's decision, but that's what it is. But I think they did their job correctly, their job given to them by the Croatian Parliament. I think that what is seen from this report is that a growing number of officials who are somehow informative before any procedure or if they have any doubts about any of their next business or other proceedings will nevertheless address the commission, ask whether this procedure would be in accordance with the law or perhaps constitute an infringement of that public authority. I think it worked a lot in education. I think a lot has also been achieved in this part of the information, the acceleration of certain processes. However, a register of state officials was established. A single awareness is being achieved. Some of the things that were previously tolerated, some colleagues here mentioned that they were abused, with cars, with this, with that. Today, it doesn't simply fall to some officials anymore, but some of the things that were unfortunately until yesterday were considered normal. And it was widely considered public, but private. I don't think we can come to that level today, and in that part, the commission has done its part. But let's help with that and let's get going on changing the law. It's just that it's something that prays to us here every year. Indeed, appeals come every year when we discuss the report on the work of the Commission on the prevention of conflicts of interest, in fact we rather than discuss this report we are discussing the good or bad sides of this or that law in particular of this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I think it's time we started changing it. It is not good for the bile to spread in this debate on the report on the work of the commission, as they are chasing pears and apples in this way. And in the end, I would like to thank the committee for not only making an effort to agree on such a report, but rather what its very sensitive work has done in a dignified way even though it has not been easy. It is difficult to stay together, logical, and try to be objective in the situation when I repeat you decide in some way about fates, about the reputation of people who are perceived or really who are perceived and who are powerful and where such situations are actually logically causing a great interest in the media or the public. But of course that doesn't mean that we need to hide the work of the committee from the public, to protect ourselves, I'm absolutely against it. I think it's okay, which is ensured, the public works of the commission and in part of the publication on the websites, decisions to launch or not to initiate the procedure, regardless of what, very often, the question is, why, in general, the decisions on the non-starting of the procedure are being announced. So I think it's a good one instrument and way, that those officials, who may be in some doubt, can see what practice is at the end of the day and be guided by it. Same as the others. And I don't think that having sessions, committees in public, should be a problem. Because if you're already in a situation, that you're the subject of the commission's procedure, it means that the procedure is being initiated, then I'm sorry, but we all have to be prepared to be able to deal with it and face it in public. No matter what the decision of the commission was in the end. Once again for the end, let's not, about independent state institutions, try to do political, insumed and politically dependent bodies, because it can serve someone in the short term, but in the long run, it can really come back to us. Who's doing this and making mistakes. There could have been mistakes. They were probably there, but don't go into political action, because somewhere, it didn't work out the way you expected it to. Nor strive for the next assembly and composition of the commission to work towards political cracks, because there are times, which should be far, far behind us, which you very often want to say, how you party, judge, I will not talk about the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54544	I thank my colleague Sabina the Voice for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate this section regarding the Ministry of Science and Education. So the fact is it's a very layered and complex sector that includes the entire educational vertical, so it's logical to be a certain number of officials. I admit there's a lot of them right now, though. That's true, but because of the reform efforts that are being made right now, I think that's something that needs to be done. But one thing I'm sure is, as many as there are, too many or too few, I'm sure none of them will leave 700 loose objects in the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54546	I'd like to thank my colleague Falcone for the replica. Answer, colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54547	Not that there's a lot of them, but you're a recordman. 4 are administrations, Education and Education Administration, Standard, Strategies and Special Programmes, Higher Education Administration, Science Administration, just as much as there were in our composition. We'll exclude the sport from ours and yours. Okay, we had four assistant ministers, OK, and one deputy. You have 10 state officials, so when I sum up all the assistant ministers and secretary of state, and no, it has nothing to do with any reforms. Because if in one ministry only talk about reforms, and nothing happens, where everything stops, then you're also recordrs in that and an eclectic example of inaction. But what I'm saying is, you and I know exactly what's causing it. So it was Barisic... and there was pressure from HRAST and other parties of the radical right, who wanted to have their influence on education and in large part they appointed their state officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new HNS minister has arrived who has no confidence in them, she named her assistants, and Plenkovic, as a diameter, has no courage to cut between the two currents and therefore Croatian citizens pay only your state officials monthly, because in court, court plots, court wars of water and should simply be satisfied, both sides should be settled. And that's what we all pay for. And because of that 300,000 kn per month, so figure out what it is, six months, a year, and this commission can't breathe and the kids in the schools don't have any personal stuff, so don't tell me something that you and I know isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54548	I thank my colleague, Voter. And the time she respected, the next replica, a colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, if you are reading the 2016 Ombudsman's 2016 report, which is our next item, it tells you that blackmail was recorded in last year, finance according to certain NGOs, i.e. civil sector organisations and political pressures against certain independent institutions. By listening to the careful debate, I also think the arguments that are going through are all going in favor of actually the thesis that you've brought out, which is that the atmosphere is being created and the field is actually being prepared, that I'm going to use a slightly more flexible expression, that's why someone isn't willing. The thesis was mentioned that only one political option chose this commission. And I wonder, who even prevented anyone from voting, said his opinion when we discussed it and when we voted on it. Someone gave it up. And it's democratic, and I'm not going in there. But the thesis can't be that that's why the commission is painted one way or another, at least for me. So I think it's a matter of motivation why it's happening right now. We had the opportunity, and you said yourself, to see what happened to the occupier in 2016, what happened to the prosecutor for the children, and I wonder, here, it was often mentioned here by former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, whether the guilt of this commission, whether it was their crime, whether or not she strongly condemned Zoran Milanovic to a large fine. Or is it a crime that they dared to investigate, question the president, that she wasn't accidentally in a conflict of interest? So, they're very indicative of some things and you'd repeat what I've already said. This is our institution, an institution that is called the Croatian Parliament, which is an independent institution, let's strength it, let's not weaken it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54550	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Answer, colleague Glasvac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Hajdukovic, I would not really like to enter into this individual case here very often mentioned whether the case against Zoran Milanovic has now been initiated, whether it was launched against Varga, as it ended up against Varga. Varga has the same attitude. It was said there was something wrong, so it wasn't positive for him. But I say again, we have never publicly resented that any of our ministers ended up in proceedings before the Committee for Conflict of Interest and that eventually their statement or warning or any other measure was not positive for our official. It's something simple we have to deal with. But I'm incredibly disgusted by the fact that if someone really resents this commission that dared to ask the president or that anyone dares to ask the president why she went to America about the cost of taxpayers' money, who I don't know paid her birthday, etc. etc. Some things our citizens de facto should have the right to know. The commission certainly isn't happy that he's doing the job he's doing. It's probably not pleasant and I don't know who I'd want. It's not pleasant simply. And imagine now if the atmosphere is acquired that you have to be careful what you decide, that you have to be careful who you resent. So imagine who will answer those public calls and those competitions, what kind of experts we'll get as professionals, as people who need to do this job professionally if we somehow put fear into their bones from this Parliament and from politics. That's not good at all. Fear is bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54552	I thank my colleague Voter for this answer. Next replica, respected colleague Ana Devčić Comparić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues and you and many before you have mentioned independent institutions many times today, so the institutions that we consider independently very difficult can be considered so, especially when this House votes on their report, especially if the vote and the result of the vote depends on whether the furniture that runs that institution will stay or leave. Instead of discussing the metrics here today, we are dealing with whether or not the law needs to be changed, whether the law is good or bad, whether we should have done something before I don't know how many years ago, so that would be better now. So we're the Croatian Parliament, we're the law-making body, and I personally think there should be no talking about it today. It's our decision. What we were to discuss today is to see what this report points to, to see the way and direction in which we should go, to change the laws for the situation in our country to be better. Because if we end up politically in political debates for every independent institution here, only by political debates, not taking care of what these reports indicate and in what direction we should go, we will never be removed from the dead spot where we are and we will not make our lives better here and make our citizens a better and better life in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54554	I would like to thank my colleague, Ani Devčić Comparic. Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54555	Thank you. My colleague Comparić Devčić and we should discuss in fact whether the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so we can also discuss the rights and obligations of state officials, but not under this item of the agenda, not under this item of the agenda. Well, these people have been coming here for years, reporting. Well, I haven't been in this Croatian Parliament in years. I'm only a year and something. But I did get a little bit of information, and I watched the debates go on. For years, people have warned that even before this decision of the Constitutional de facto court that has reduced some powers, but in fact there are still some holes that would be said in certain laws that make it difficult for the commission to work, and thus the clarity of decisions, or the consistency of any action you want. Reduce the space for any interpretation of the law or question certain decisions of this committee. We need to talk, but let's not do this part of the agenda. We've been discussing this for years. And now it culminates in a way that you see what it all looks like. We don't like some law, some solution. I don't like it either. Let's say that a state official who leaves his post is entitled to receive those six months full, six months' pay, but he can't be de facto if he decides to hire and save the state the cost after two months of getting a job somewhere else that has anything to do with it. It's a nonsensical thing to me, but I won't blame myself now for having someone judge me tomorrow if I get a job, the commission told me you broke the law and I did. And that law is according to me nonsens. But it is not Dalia Oreshkovic's fault, nor is it the commission for such a decision, but the laws that are as they are. So let's change the illogical Sport Act for you, Mr. Schucker, let's change other laws, but let's not spill the bile and now look for some bad side in the work of the commission because you mentioned the Sport Act to me and you know it's also a weak point and let's not do it and now we abuse it even to deal with the members of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54556	Thank you very much for answering my colleague's voter. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54557	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, for the opportunity to congratulate you on your 50th birthday. Your colleague, the Voicer, has instructed you in the SDP that you often repeat the false thinking that this truth, that this untruth may become true. When it comes to agricultural land, you mention the attorney general's office for children, roads, traffic vehicles, you mention the attorney general's office for children. Today when this report is you're talking again about the attorney general for the children and you know that what you're saying is simply not true. The Constitutional Court made a decision and said that the Law on the Ombudsman for Children ceases to apply as of 1 August 2017 because it was not adopted by qualified majority as an organic law. So that's the first lie you're telling. The second is that the attorney general has been elected under the law that you have passed. And she knew that under that same law unless her report was accepted that she was automated, so you were involved in it, and you brought it in. And in the end, what the attorney general said about the children and said they were learning foreign languages or leaving this country, Croatia says enough about you choosing the wrong person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54558	I would like to thank my colleague Babic... I also thank you for your congratulations, otherwise I look younger but I don't know what's wrong with me today. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54559	Happy birthday to you. First of all, you can tell me I'm a liar and not a liar, you know that I love when things are called the right name and when we don't make them beautiful where there's no need. Secondly, I don't mean to be rude, but the attorney general is not a public defender for children. These are two different institutions, the attorney general was elected by one law and could not be replaced if you gave her a negative opinion, mostly here on her report while, on the other hand, that you were right, it could have been done for the Ombudsman for the children. Secondly, the Constitutional Court never told you that you have to change the law in a way that you will bring Lex Milas Klaric where you will flatly interrupt her term in the middle of the term, so she has a term of eight years and you will only say the transitional and final provision of tomorrow more Ivana you are not because we do not like you, you objected to us and we do not want you. The Constitutional Court only said that the choice, the Ombudsman for children, was not in line, so it wasn't chosen by the majority to be chosen and asked us to amend the law in that part, not to mess with some other bodies, but you took advantage of the opportunity, the Constitutional Court decision, okay, but then take responsibility for it, and don't take responsibility here now, please, deceive, deceive the public. As far as the election is concerned, that she was elected here by a relative majority, doing her job correctly, doing her job in the interests of children, warning, burning us on the fingers when institutions didn't do their job to protect children's rights and improve children's rights. It was her job. And according to us, by the institutions all the time we were in power and didn't complain about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54560	I thank my colleague, Voter. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Glasovac, you're also in your debate here now saying it wouldn't be good for this debate to turn into a political reckoning. However, the debates of some colleagues now at the very end of this debate confirm these fears and this debate as it goes towards the end is turning into a political account which I really hope will not lead to revenge in the election of the new composition of the commission and that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will find the strength to overcome his currents in HDZ because he would not be prime minister that Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic and this commission have not made the decision in the Karamarko case they have made. Why this is turning into a political showdown, so here are several colleagues from the other side, especially before the end, mentioned the case of Zoran Milanovic discussed by the commission, mentioning that this commission was elected and with their debate essentially wanted to show that this commission is connected to the SDP and the former SDP government, which is not true. Since that is the case, then a whole series of SDP officials would not be punished by this committee. Here comes my colleague Maras, who himself was a victim of the commission, as the HDZ shows, who was punished for his conflict of interest, even lost a dispute in the administrative court, which shows that the commission was right and just before praised him. And he just recently praised the commission's work, which shows that there is no bias or commission or us from the SDP when we discuss it. But HDZ is holding on to the old "Each Hard and Judges" because then they think they're all like them. Because when someone close to HDZ, then we see it now in the courts. When you're close to HDZ, it's syncope. When you're close to HDZ, then you run to Switzerland. When you're close to HDZ, then you're far from the hands of the judiciary because you know who in this country manages both the judiciary and all those organs but not everyone like you. Thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54562	I'd like to thank my colleague Giujic for his replica. And an answer from my colleague, Voter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54563	Coli Đujic, if the facts presented in the reports of all these years and objectively look at the work of the commission that was de facto, it began from the beginning, built the story, did not inherit something, continued someone's work, of course there were some mistakes and difficulties on the way to birth, and that it was not even that simple. If you're going to look at objective facts in the reports, then these people if they want to do it further and apply again have no reason to fear. But if we're going to listen and listen to Mr. Boric's argument and judge him, then the message is clear, you weren't our choice. We didn't vote for you when you chose. And that's a shame to think like that. You didn't get our trust as an opposition when you chose, and we couldn't wait to get a chance to thank you no matter how you did. Well, that's not good if that's how it's gonna be. But I'm saying, if we're going to objectively look at it, I have no reason, I repeat myself to be the spokeswoman of no one, nor any lawyer, nor any head of the commission, nor do I know these women, nor am I private with them, with most of them speaking one word. But I do want to represent myself in some way to represent the independence of certain institutions and to see the difference between some institutions where it works, where it is not done, where it is done well, bad and where it is not done well. I think I see it so well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54564	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Glasovac, I think you've opened one topic in your debate, but I don't think there will be any concrete results because your colleagues in HDZ have clearly made up their mind. Because when you see the performance of individual representatives, then you understand. Says the gentleman didn't show up hard enough, you condemned that guy, and you got our Karamark in front of the cross, no. It's something that definitely shows where this is going to develop. You can now assume by the candidates you've reported who Mr. Boric wants for the chairman of the commission and who he doesn't want. He does not want those who reported 5 years ago who he did not vote for, and that is the criterion taken by HDZ representatives or HDZ representatives. And then we have nothing to be surprised about. So that commission will never have the independence it should have, although it would not agree with you that no one will do the job because it seems to me, all the members of the commission have again reported to the members of the commission in the new term of office, so it is not their job that hateful that you would assume in that debate. So on that side HDZ has its own logic which, of course, is always the same and that's if you're not ours, then you're against us and we can expect that this story about the election of the commission will end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54566	I thank my colleague Maras. Answer from my colleague, Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54567	My colleague Maras, I didn't think anyone would do this, but if we force fear of a political court against the members of the current, future body, then we can't expect professional and free-thinking people who know to do what Croatia really needs. And these political stories, and these individual cases really bother me because we're actually kind of afraid of this commission and we need to understand that they're actually for us, that we're better. That we as officials are better. And why is that? It's also in our interest to restore citizens' trust. Well, trust in an institution is a disaster. To the MPs. We're all in the same place. Because of some bad examples, we're all how you can do it, so it's a swamp, so you have to have a stomach, and we're all the same to them. But I don't want us all to be the same because we're not the same. We're not the same. Well, we're not the same, but we get the impression that we're the same. Because of those who don't read the laws, who read them, and pretend that these laws don't concern them, because of those who deliberately play the law, because of those who don't hand over their property cards, it's just a lame suspicion that they're hiding something because of negligence, because I don't know what. Unnecessarily. And that is why we need to be in the interest of this commission doing its job even harder, even stronger, and giving it even more power. To make a difference between those and those, that we're not all the same. And that those who sin, eventually and endure some conjecture, and let their reputation be broken if it should be, and let them no longer do this work, because they will never be able to distinguish the grain from the weeds if we allow it to swim in some kind of blurry, and that somehow it predominates the opinion that offends, simply insults, very insulting, you're all the same, it's not honorable work, you're in a pot of brocade, that's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54568	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54569	Thank you very much. Comrade Glasovac, I don't know why this level of debate throughout the afternoon, especially towards us in HDZ. We said we'd support the report, we said the government supported the report, what's the problem? Why are you doing a bear favor to these people sitting here? Why are you burdening them with this election procedure in a way that you do what you do? If they called, they did, they did the interview, they did, so I guess somebody has a right to suggest something. Did you do it five years ago? Yes, it is. You came here with a list, 84 votes voted for, everyone else in the opposition, HDZ, Labour, ORAH, HDSSB, HSS, they were all outside. What's the problem? So why do you always feel that you're always right and that you have the right to some things that no one else has? So let people do their job, their mandate still takes place. What's the problem? You're accusing us in advance that we've already solved something and you're making your own opinions that you've already solved. So let us have the same rights. At least the same rights. You didn't care who was or what any other party was saying here, you abused all the majority, you voted, you drove us out of your way, you didn't even want to negotiate in anything, so the first commission to be chosen like that. And now you're giving us lessons about what we need to do. If we can't say anything about the commission's work, then I remember some of those situations. Let's say the property card situation and the Personal Data Protection Agency, there were some people killed, there were discussions, the director was still the same if I didn't remember, and he was removed from your government, if I don't remember well. Well, we've seen how someone acted at that moment, let the innocent go. I'm just saying that the public of work that only the commission came into on its own request, so no representative forced him into that space has raised that commission to a high level. And any kind of investigation or conflict of interest is declared fatal and politicians become persecuted beasts for no reason whatsoever. The conflict of interest, the conflict of interest, the payment of punishment, the warning, what I know, but not that someone stretches you just because you're in and you're not aware of what you're in for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54570	I thank my colleague, Boric, for the replica. Answer from my colleague, Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54571	Comrade Boric, I have no right to your position and to your opinion at all, but I disagree. And yes, I am expressing my opinion that this seems like an endless day to me. It's kind of like my handwriting. It's like my handwriting. What happened as a predecessor to some other shifts, I'm glad you just said, maybe I was sitting in my ears, when your club representative or club representative spoke on behalf of the club, that you would support the report. So there's no reason for fear, for these people. I really apologize to these people who led my debate, that they would now be punished, that I defended not them, but simply spoke positively of the report of work, just as you did. But, you see, you've been living to see, I'm still expressing, so I have the right to express my skepticism and I think you're preparing the ground for the shooting. And it's my right and you can't talk me out of it. And what's going to happen, we'll see about that very soon. So you've assured me here, and when we've been making changes to the Law on Child Advocates, that nothing's going to happen, it's just such a benign amendment to the law, so we can see where it's brought it. So let's not be naive. So stay behind your actions, or at least stay here so long as you don't expose your intentions in advance, that you're not so obvious in what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54572	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54573	... What I was saying and defending, that is, speaking on behalf of the HDZ, on this report by the Commission, that I have made it clear that the HDZ Club will support this report. [[Specially enabled.]] Similarly to what Boric said, I do not know why there is now some euphoria and some kind of drama about it, if something critical was said about, not about the work of the commission, but about some of the things that are related to the commission, and also about the law itself, and here I agree with those who have said, that this Parliament, not only this assembly, but also those formerly guilty, that the law did not work out. And it made it easier for the commission, but it made life easier for all public officials. When you spoke and mentioned here some car abuses and stuff, it was in your time and the abuse of helicopters, as I recall, so this one, you didn't remember. I don't see why you keep going to some conspiracy theory or something. This commission was elected for a period of 5 years, according to the law of the election of presidents, members of the commission, Art. 31. Presidents and members of the commission shall be elected by the Croatian Parliament, by secret vote, by the majority of the votes of all MPs on the basis of a list of candidates, which shall be drawn up by the Board of Elections and appointments and administrative tasks of the Croatian Parliament, in the follow-up text of the Committee. Let us leave it to the procedure to happen, to have a vote, so this House, the Croatian Parliament, will decide whether this commission will work further in this composition or work in someone else, but today it has nothing to do with this report. You constantly want to imply that HDZ is preparing the ground for some kind of shift, and this is simply a legal procedure that is under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54574	I'd like to thank my colleague Felak for the replica. Answer from my colleague, Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54575	So I have to say again for the third time, that I think that tonight you're taking the opportunity both in the afternoon and through this debate you're preparing, through the public and some kind of, you know, that this is an opportunity to get to the public, through some situations, where the commission as a misrepresented has not responded. You're creating a simple atmosphere for what's to come. That's what I mean, I can't get rid of that impression. Also here, when she was preparing for the child counseling shift, she was shown why, as she dared the president, I don't know, some kind of transparent note to be directed, when she and the little girl were taking pictures, those chocolates were shared or whatever. And I'm just saying, this scenario reminds me of that. And I don't know what you see wrong and wrong. Maybe I'm just being paranoid, maybe being dramatic, but I don't want to, see, I'm saying that we're constantly looking at these same scenarios, which I think are a blow to the independence of institutions, because so, well, here expires the mandate, etc. But the reasons you're talking about being respectful, I think it's completely political. You dare show someone ours, we think you shouldn't, or you should have had more to do with each other, that's not the way to go. And if I'm paranoid or psychic, we'll see soon enough when you vote. Well, time will show again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54576	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. We have the last line, dear colleague Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I join the congratulations on your birthday, but also for defending your diploma, we congratulate you from the heart. This isn't without any connotations with any thought, honestly. Comrade Voter, why the drama, why this drama today? For what? On the 2016 Commissioner's report. Now, when this end is already being debated, no one, but today, has questioned whether this commission should be encouraged, or whether this report should be supported or not. Absolutely no one doubted, however, everyone pointed out, that the work of the committee was good, that there were, difficulties or questions or questionnaires that could be asked, but no one doubted. And the club attitudes we heard today, most of the club attitudes, that they would support the work of the commission. Now to produce, to draw conclusions, to tell me in Dalmatia, you know that, she said, she said, it's not appropriate. We've heard from colleagues that the HDZ Club will support this report and there's nothing to add to that. But you're already so psychic today, you already know that in half a year, we'll all make decisions together. Wasn't the lady chosen in public tender? Wasn't it a public call? Didn't the Parliament choose and confirm? And isn't that how the future president, the president, or the lady will be chosen in the same way? Why such a drama? Why did you twist the aggrieves? And we'll really agree that you're bringing into an awkward situation a commission that's been doing its job. And why are you so obsessed with the President of the Republic of Croatia, why is she bothering you? And it's one of hundreds of objects we've heard, it's not the only object. Therefore, please be careful how you replicate to me, because not now as a colleague, to his Djujic, he replicates Boric and you answer to someone else. Answer me this way, please. Because what my colleague Djujic said today is very offensive and you didn't even warn him, but in fact, it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54578	I would like to thank my colleague Šipic for his replica. And please, colleague Šipić, stay away from any warnings, there is a chairman in the Croatian Parliament who will warn any MP if he does not stick to the topic and if he does not adequately respond to the replicas and you are not, with all due respect. Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54579	... Excuse me, excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Article 238, has been injured, but since you have already warned your colleague Šipić, I was just about to point out that he is not yet the President of the Croatian Parliament or the Chairman, so he cannot interpret who is in violation of the Rules of Procedure and who I did not and I did not replicate my colleague, Boric, nor did I mention anyone, look at the phonogram, find where I mentioned, who I did not mention. But since here's the vice president that you warned, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54580	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Šipić, and you already know, you could already get used to my expression being like that and sometimes I know how to react emotionally, as it is known from the heart. And yes, I can react dramatically and that's what happens when my organism responds to injustice. And it would be unfair, it would be unfair for tomorrow to see people whose work here is somehow the green light of all, consensually, regardless of whether they are not consensually chosen. Even though there was no consensus about the election, there was a consensus about their work for years. And the injustice would be big, big, big if people whose work, not them, but work, and here he's reached an agreement, united this assembly for years we say goodbye tomorrow. I don't see any reason for that. And that's why I react so dramatically because I suspect injustice and let time deny me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54582	I thank my colleague Voter for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I congratulate you on your birthday, but I also congratulate you on holding the session, and I'm going to point that out one more time, and you're the most convincing one on this chair that you run the sessions. So here's what's wrong with me by not knowing which times you've pointed that out by now. Now let me go back to this topic we're discussing here. We have a paradox that, it is evident, the people who have been supported today on the public scene will gently praise the work of the commission, and it is evident from the behaviour of individual representatives, colleagues of Boric, for example, and his replicas that he will not get support to continue the work. This sometimes shows how dishonest politics is, in particular, policies practiced by HDZ. And what's that for? Mr. Boric will say because no one asked them anything in 2012, that's his reason. And maybe the reson is a little different, maybe it shows Mr. Šikic's reaction to, as our colleague Glasovic would say, in which bush lies the rabbit. And then when he asks as emotionally as to who our president bothers by alluding that because she's president, no one should ask her anything, and so neither does the committee that asks her the right questions essentially show real motives, the real motives of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Because the president gets nervous every time someone asks about HDZ sponsor and her friend Zdravko Mamić. It always kicks when someone asks. And why wouldn't they ask her? Well, we've had one drama about this situation and another official in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Lozancic, the same problem. Tomorrow, Mrs. Oreskovic will probably have a problem like Dragan Loznancic had a few years ago. Two years, I think, because he asked the same question just from another angle, or he informed her from another angle. Now that's what we need to talk about here and see if there are actually persons in the Republic of Croatia or if HDZ would want such people to exist who can't be asked anything, so you shouldn't have asked, I remember in 2007, 2008. Sanader, where'd he get that watch nice and one more hour and another five hours and then seven hours? You shouldn't have asked that and it was asked Leko, if you remember someone who was here or you followed it in the media, it was asked by Leo when, who was then in position, he was a little different law but he as a parliamentary representative led that commission and asked him where you got your watch. At the time, Sanader could not be asked, and now some of the HDZ would not be able to ask the president of the Republic. Or that you can't ask, for example, the government of Shex. Marasa can ask everything. [[I Marasa.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54584	Dear colleague Zekanovic, please don't enter the word as your colleague Maras speaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54585	Marasa can ask everything. Well, I'm the acclaimer of this committee. I paid one of the biggest fines, one of the biggest fines that even Sanader didn't pay the commission. I paid 4000 kuna for the fine and you know why? Because I was a member of the board of directors for a few months and worked for nothing, they're there in HR, still these people work there, they're eternal, and they don't change anyone, they missed the realization that I shouldn't have been appointed by the government as a member of the board of directors of one agency. After that, the law changed, but Maras has become an example of the conflict of interest in Croatia because of 2.3 months. I really could never imagine being punished for something like where I worked for nothing, so I was wasting my time and I still had to pay 4,000 kuna and, of course, as it goes, I was hoping that the administrative court would understand what an injustice it was, it could only go through with a warning. And I complained, but I didn't even go to administrative court. But anyway, I'm not like some of the HDZ that I'm going to take this as an evil for Mrs. Oreshkovic and the commission because they did something on official duty, reported, there's been a failure in the application of the law. And okay, you learn something for next time, so next time, just look for yourself, don't trust the professional services that do it. So please don't ask these people to look at the HDZ angle, Mr. Boric, Šikic, Mrs. Jelkovac, don't ask them to. There are answers to the president as well as any of these two thousand officials as far as the commission is following them. Everyone is obliged to apply the law no matter how pointless he used to be as you can see in my case. In my case, it's a really pointless punishment. Mr. Bull...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54586	Comrade Bulj, I'd like to ask you nicely don't get into your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54587	I could take this from anyone, cut it short, but it's really hard for me because you guys usually go ahead and have interesting discussions. So no matter how pointless the law should be, so should our president, to the last official covered by the law. And I said, just before, Mr. Šikic got pissed off how pointless it is that you can't be the director of a newly founded company or Boris is angry that Milanovic then, I don't know what they were supposed to bring him in for 15 days because of what he was director of a newly founded company. He should have ended up not knowing as Karamarko or someone, I have no idea what Boric expected of it. But that's pointless. So you can't do that, but you can go to a corporation on the $50,000 salary you were supposed to be controlling in the past years under the Ministry of Finance. And then you come back after that, again as a minister and it's all normal, it's a profession, it's experts, it's knowers, and these others are not to say what. Now, I wanted to go back to Shex again. So I boasted that Shakespeare was a key man in a coup within the HNS and the influence on HNS officials, some of whom were HNS presidents at the time was a parliamentary representative and state officials. And I'm curious if Pernar was wondering because somewhere he'd been told he was going to a party for 300 or 500 kuna at some disco club, why don't you ask Shex and the Wreaths? After Shakespeare said publicly that he as a key man had activated some individuals and checkpoints in a coup inside the CNS, there was a potential conflict much, much higher than that of Ivan Pernar. How do we know which points they are? Maybe some economic circles have affected the Vrdoljak of Osijek. We know he's got a lot of friends there. Maybe the energy sector got involved. Maybe some of the checkpoints are tied to the judiciary. We also see some of the verdicts that happened afterwards, especially after Shakespeare said that after certain figures, the king was to be reached. Watch out for the syntagma, we don't have a king in Croatia by Seks, Plenkovic, a chess dictionary. So there is much greater and higher and potentially more risky and there should sometimes be a commission to react and ask what these people meant by these statements they make every day in Croatian media. It's much more dangerous than Pernar's 300 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54588	I thank my colleague Maras. I also thank you for your reflections on my work, but despite this, we are discussing today the report on the work of the Commission on the decision of the 2016 conflict of interest, and in your presentation, as much as I have tried there was a lot of things that had nothing to do with this report, but let my God throw away a stone that has no sin, so you're not the only one. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, on this very trail is the injured article of Rules of Procedure 238, which explicitly states that speaking of the subject is forbidden, cannot speak of the subject which is not in this section and I will say, colleague Maras, the following. Although I am not as planetarily popular as you were as minister, I am not Sikic after all, I am Šipić, and by the baptism of Ivan, and by the last name of Šipić, so I would ask you, I am not planetaryly popular and famous, yet I will not understand by this item that you have diminished, offended, but here is the fact that this came from you in this context in which you have been saying, so you are implying something to me. I mentioned the president that there was no need to mention her so much because one in a series of cases of this commission and nothing else. So, I'm Shipic, once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54590	I thank my colleague Šipic for this injury to the Rules of Procedure. I think I've already expressed my opinion and attitude about what you said, Lapsus Šikic, Šipic, I hope he doesn't mind too strongly. Thanks a lot, buddy. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54591	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, my colleague didn't talk about it, and I also don't really know why he called me, I'm going to think this time he didn't want to hurt me with it, but I'm asking him not to call me that way, not to mention my name in vain, I listened to him very carefully, and there was no reason to call me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54592	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. I think I've already given an answer to this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so any comment is excessive. We move on to replicas, respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54593	Dear Vice President, I wish for a happy birthday, and here's a pure replica that little Mr. Maras can and round his thoughts and answer the line. It's interesting how you and your colleague, the Voicer in someone else's eye, and you don't see what they say in yours. You at one point, I really don't have to admit it, you here all the time objecting to us as if HDZ is doing something contrary to the law, normally with partners from HRAST and other parties, and in 2013, you are in accordance with the law, so you chose the lady in question with your hands. In the first month, that is, is the lady concerned, is, Dalia Oreshković is there, present and present, also in the first month of 2018, the HDZ will do the same thing, selecting again a candidate or candidate, perhaps not her, but I see that since you are obviously either working or deciding on an ideological key, in a similar way that you are already afraid that maybe it shouldn't be her. That someone might blame her for what you chose by an ideological key. I don't believe anyone's going to mind these things, but if you've done it, you know it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54594	I thank Mr. Zekanovic for the replica. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54595	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, you wouldn't believe this, but I'm very critical of myself. And I know a lot of times of self-critical response and I don't mention anyone in this assembly because of what you would do or something, but simply there are people from the HDZ Club, Mrs. Jelkovac was in my sight and I said, she's probably a poor HDZ member, and that's why I mentioned her. And as you said, I didn't choose by any ideological key, I didn't hear of any of these people at the time, although I wasn't in the Parliament, but after the talks within the SDP's Club there was no such criterion, neither those people were close to the SDP, nor were members of the SDP, nor were they doing anything that would impress the SDP's people, so now here I've said and I've been punished by another 5, 6 of my colleagues. I don't see what you've come to believe that we prefer them to be ideological or something that makes them do something that we would particularly like. We're just warning of one illogicality, I'm not saying HDZ works illegally, but very often it works illogically. And now he's going to do such an illogical thing. So, he praises here, says bravo, and then he'll probably pick a former HDZ minister to sit in the commission. Here, let's see if that happens. Here it is, to see what happens in five months, whether the former HDZ minister will join the commission. Well, there's a former minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54596	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. I ask you again and I appeal both to you and to all my colleagues and colleagues, to talk about the subject, we are not talking here about the selection of members of the commission, but about the report, about the work of the 2016 commission, so I would ask you to really talk about the subject. Next replica, honorary colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54597	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you have indeed stated a lot in your presentation, among other things, you have referred to Mr. Shex's interview this Saturday on one of our printed media. I'm not going to say anything about it because it would be an emotional conflict, so it would be very difficult to say, but it's a good thing that you mentioned a few facts in the debate, so let's get back to the facts and that's the need to change the law. And you and I were punished, so it wasn't just you, and I was, the truth god with two thousand kunas, so I went a little better, but really, we all need to know that. At a time when any of us become an official, we must study the law well, see and take care of it. I'm sure there's really an opportunity to improve this law and that's what this report should be. In the debate on the report, everything was discussed, and a recent selection of new members of the commission was discussed, i.e. the next person to lead or not. But it would be good to see from this report how the law needs to be improved. There's one illogical thing we all need to take care of. In a government where you and I were at one point at the head of a company owned by the Republic of Croatia, it was the idea to name one assistant minister. And that was impossible. So, someone who was an assistant minister. So, in other words, if one of the ministers had now gone from the government to the head of HEP, it wouldn't be possible. And therefore, we should also take into account, we should take care of the amendments to the law, of course, it always serves to try to see what and how, but we should always advocate, that people and all together, regardless of what part of the assembly we sit on, encourage, that people, that we allow them to do their job in quality and this opportunity, regardless of all this commission on conflicting of interest is really good and we do our job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54598	I thank my colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. Answer me, Comrade Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54599	Thank you very much. Well, the law is full of illogicality. You said one, and that's that a man can be an assistant minister, then he can't be 100% in a state firm, he can't be president or member of the board. That's totally illogical. On the other hand, it's illogical that you can't start a company and be the CEO of a company, but you can start a company and then transfer it to another person or a lawyer or another person, etc. So there are illogicalities that do not prevent possible conflicts of interest. They simply may be masked, but they do not give any concrete solution, and that law should therefore be amended. For example, you have the laws of officials, here is Mr. Šipic, head of a small municipality, sorry, mayor of a small town... Okay, chosen three times. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54600	Comrade Šipić, please allow Mr. Maras to respond. You'll have to deal with it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54601	Later chosen three times directly. Convincedly in his small town in Cetitna Krajina. So I congratulate it, but it doesn't make sense that he's a liability, like the law, and Ante Ramljak is not a lawmaker, which the state has put to manage with 50 billion kn worth of company. Ramljak is not a liability, and we don't need to know the whole world he brought there with him. From friends from former consulting firms to, I don't know, who not. You're laughing at your HDZ colleagues, but they're doing it there on your behalf. Everyone. And they make 20, 30, 50 thousand kunas and who knows how much more money you'll probably never know about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54602	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. A colleague of mine would beg you not to enter the word of our colleagues as he speaks and as they respond. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54603	Thank you very much. I called my colleague Maras because you cried a few times to get back to me. Because you like to be the last one, to replicate someone who answers your lines, to step on them, to destroy them in their debate, after he says, and I give you the chance to deny me. There. So let's say that your claim was that you were a riser and paid 4000 kn for 2, 3 months of some conflict of interest at the competition and investment agency. Three years and three days, actually. No, two, three months, three years and three days you were there. So you'll deny it. Secondly, you're saddened to say the lies very often here and go over it with such a smile, because it's interesting to you, as well as to the grief and the fact that you through your debate and on behalf of the club and in your individual debates eliminated 32 people just like that. Thirty-seven reported to the competition. And they went through procedure and interview. You've eliminated them by your argument and said what you've reported in the first place, we've got a commission, let it work. And that's fine with you. You'll deny me if you don't. And the last thing you have to believe is, when you're saying something here, you have some performances. I remember one guy standing here holding a white paper in his hand and it said 77. You remember. You asked Plenkovic, show me your numbers. Remember? That's how much you need to be trusted. So you showed you don't know anything about anything, and now deny me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54604	Comrade Perar, please. Dear Boris, please refrain from such comments in your expression, comment on the specific facts and make a concrete statement. Comrade Maras, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54605	Thank you very much. No wonder this is the reaction of some MPs, because this is what they deserve, for example, to give Boric another minute. Because the more he says, the better for me. And if it were still in the morning transmission, then I'm willing to sponsor it. Unfortunately, now too few people are looking at us to see how brilliant a speaker and a representative is, no. So even if it's well prepared, you can see the same thing. And he Googled it, says how much Maras was in the board. And he didn't Google that the law changed. And if Maras could have been one period, you see, here as soon as there's two stores, it's harder. So, here's the hint, try, a little bit of everyone from multiple angles look at what's going on, and then maybe you get to the truth. And as for the numbers, there was.../The speaker doesn't understand. That in English means we're here somewhere. Oh, no? 75, 75, and unfortunately, if it weren't for a tragic one situation, that you had to read there the MPs who came to the votes of the other political option would never have survived that government. Who knows what it's all about. That's what I was talking about earlier, so it's certainly not proud of you, and I suggest you never mention it again. It's not your pride that Saucha saved you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54606	I thank my colleague Gordan Maras. We move to debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the final word of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54607	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues at the end of this debate would not normally answer, I am not answering for the final words, we do not have that custom, but since it was particularly good work of the Commission in 2016 and we think that they have done a good job as well as colleagues from the HDZ together, and probably other clubs, that it will be one of the few institutions of the Republic of Croatia that will get big, almost unanimous support for their work, and I hope that this will be valorised in the future and that they will continue to do their job in quality and that we will not watch party staffing and arrest in the principle of HDZ and that we will not see former ministers. It would be a paradox, if the former ministers were to sit down and that's why I came forward to say this here publicly, that it would be a paradox for HDZ to elect a former minister into a commission that should be dealt with by questioning and questioning politicians, especially those people who, for example, had certain objections and applications to that commission. And that's where it's going to prove to be, basically, what it's intended to be and what HDZ's intention is. Is it the HDZ's intention to use this to take care of two, three of its own and two others to cover up a little bit, or is HDZ's intention that the people they support here will all be Mr. Schuker and Mr. Lucic, Mr. Kliman, Sokol, Šipić, Mrs. Jelkovac, Boric, Stier, Zekanovic will all vote. I'm sorry if I forgot someone. Everyone will vote for that commission and probably someone who's watching us right now would say, so why would people who vote and say they did a good job change something. For what? Don't compete, don't leave the contest, Mr. Boric. No, it's not a competition that matters, but people are wondering if you're going to resist calling this siren called HDZ, to put the former minister there. That's what I was going to say to see what happens in five, six months. So look at the report, and it'll be clear to you. As for 2016 itself, the work commission was far away from the beginnings when it started. I'm sorry and it's a failure here to show you that I'm self-critical. The failure by the government of Zoran Milanovic has not changed the law, because the law is inadequate. It is impossible for these examples that I mentioned earlier that they are still not changing and that, let's say now, Lovro Kuščević does not propose these things and try to improve the law, because it is illogically something that is going on under the law. There's no Ramljaks in there, there's no excuse in there, though, let's find an excuse because he only came in half a year ago as a figure at that position of commissioner in the system company. But let's just say there's no president of the board and member of HBOR, no. And I'm telling you that these people were much, much more powerful than ministers in Croatian governments. One who's been long-lived there spent a man for 15, 20 years. These people were much, much more powerful than ministers, and they were never asked anything, nor controlled, nor anything. So that law deserves root changes, and instead of listening, that we listened to Mrs. Oreshkovic and things like that, we're now thinking about whether or not we're going to put a minister there. Here is once again the support of the committee's club to the work of the committee, regardless of whether a decision was ever taken by an emotional man may feel like an injustice, but the law must be respected, so whether it's for Commissioner or Mayor Trill, whether it's for the president of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54608	I thank my colleague Maras for this final word. Final word on behalf of the rapporteur of the committee president, respected Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54609	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank all the committee clubs for supporting the Commission's report this year as well as all the previous ones. There's been a lot of issues here today. Somehow, I have an instinctive urge and a need to address them in particular all the issues that have been put into the context of possible political pressures, but this really is neither the place nor the time as well as the issues of a possible choice or re-election of new members. But what was also the most talked about, and these are the necessary amendments and additions to the law, so a question arose whose government had a longer period of opportunity to make the necessary interventions in this law. I would like to point out that the fact that no changes have been made so far has occurred and is not anyone's responsibility. The Commission also said at the beginning of its term of office that, in fact, for quality changes, quality well thought-out and well-prepared solutions would need to be allowed to apply the law sufficiently long and sufficiently extensively in practice and that relevant interpretations and reviews of other competent authorities such as administrative courts in the proceedings in which committee decisions were being reviewed when officials applied to them. This report as well as all previous ones should have actually served as a catalogue for you MPs to, together with the officials, because they refer to this law as seeing what the problems arising from this law are in practice. But I think we got it all wrong in that part, and I can see that there's been a lot of talk about it today that the commission was arbitrarily interpreting something that wasn't properly dealt with in the law. It's not really like that. So when I spoke about the fact that the circle of officials was not regulated to this extent that at the beginning of the term of office we had a full catalogue of duties and of the officials to whom it relates, I meant, among other things, the provision of Article 3(2) which states that officials and those appointed as such by the Croatian Parliament and that the Croatian Assembly never provided the list of those people who should be covered by the competence of the commission, so the commission as the body responsible for the implementation of the law also interpreted whom such provision would apply, so that group was counted by the director of HRT, members of the administrative boards of regulatory agencies and similar. It's the part where the commission interpreted the provisions of the law but not the way out of what the law says. I also see that, even after almost 5 years of working this committee, there is still a fundamental misunderstanding of the difference between the concept of what it is a conflict of interest and what administrative rules are. Although it is precisely that part of the practice that the Commission has put forth the most effort and effort. So conflict of interest, now that I do not repeat the definition of the law is that situation when someone is compromised due to some circumstances from their private life in the decision-making process. It does not have a time-limited duration sequence, it really represents something where public interest is expected to remove its participation in the decision-making process. This has nothing to do with other administrative rules that are purely formal in nature, such as the rule that officials cannot be members of the management and supervisory boards of commercial companies, both during the term of office as regards official Zoran Milanovic, whom you mentioned and those officials who have suspended the mandate but are bound by the same ban for the next 12 months. So it is not on the commission to assess whether this prohibition is justified or not. We've heard more than once today from SDP and HNS representatives that they find this rule illogical. Today, an article has been published in the media, I do not know if this is a credible or authentic data but it seems that the Government is not satisfied with the interpretation of the commission of this provision in relation to the appointment of Mr Rosandic to a member of a single governing body, so the management of a company in majority state ownership. These are not situations where in any way there is a space of discretion in the application of this law by the Commission. These are clear rules that are what they are, if they need to be changed and in what way they cannot decide and not decide the commission, but this body. As regards the data and documentation collected by the Commission for the purposes of carrying out the procedure under its jurisdiction, one of the questions raised was why the commission in one of the cases of the local official requested documentation relating to the amendments and additions to the spatial plan of the arrangement. I don't know what case it is right now, but I guess that's why it's very likely that these particles included a property owned by an official or a member of his family. This is highly part of the work and competence of the commission to determine whether, within those powers it has, the official has used public duties for personal breach or not. If not, such a situation will also be clearly seen from the collected documentation. The law itself says that even an official can ask the commission, it is the only situation where the commission has to carry out the procedure, when the official himself asks, because it is possible that he was attacked by political opponents or the media, that he is in a situation of conflict of interest and that perhaps that's not the case. If nothing is disputed, the Commission will, on the basis of such a prepared case and documentation, take one reasoned, over-advised, reasoned decision to establish that there are no elements to initiate the procedure because there is no knowledge that the official has committed the provision of the provisions of this law or a decision on the non-starting of the procedure will be taken. As I have stated so far, there have been 300 such decisions, and I think they are very much protecting both the integrity and credibility of the official himself and the confidence of the citizens in the bodies of the public government, and I see no reason why any official in situations that did not fear the Commission's demands would be provided with the necessary documentation to make objective, impartial, well-founded and reasoned decisions. I would also like to point out that when we draw up each of our reports, we point to all those irregularities of the law which, on the one hand, are not sufficiently protected by public interest, but some of them are not in favour of the officials themselves, and they should. In this context, the decision concerning the first Deputy Prime Minister last year was particularly apostrophysed, so not in the context of the decision itself, but in the context of what the competent administrative court said in the procedure of control of the commission's decision. According to the Court of Justice, one of the shortcomings in the law is that the decisions of the Commission, in which a breach of the principle or where a situation of conflict of interest has been found, cannot be brought to the Court of Justice on the basis of provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So for now, this is the right and only decision because, in fact, so far, there has been one single lawsuit by officials against such a declarative decision of the commission, and then one single word of the competent administrative court that said that there is no law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, there is no possibility of filing an administrative action on these declarative decisions, that officials cannot be denied the possibility of a legal remedy. So actually the Court of Justice, based on interpretation of the provisions of the other laws, allowed the suit in that case. This case is therefore apostrophealed precisely for the reason that, when amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and in relation to these declaratory decisions, it would provide for a clear possibility of filing an administrative action or another form of legal remedy against the decisions of the Commission, unless the official is in agreement with it. In the end, I would like to say that no law, however high-quality it is, can define and prescribe everything. So, every body that implements a single law will have to be involved in interpreting the provisions of that law, what is said legal terms... So we are within our work and competences, this is not about arbitration or extending our powers, but about, for example, when you have a notion, which is a business relationship, then you should interpret, for example, whether it can be considered as a business relationship and a contract on the lease of business space, which is not explicitly stated in the law itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission interpreted that such a situation must also be considered a business relationship, because it has a corrupt risk, because one side gives money, the other side acquires business space. And such an interpretation was confirmed by the first-degree administrative court, but also by the High Administrative Court, which actually means that there was no discretion of the commission here. Finally, I believe that indeed, after this relaxation, therefore, we are now talking about a total of 900 opinions, 400 final decisions that have been found to violate the law, 300 decisions on the non-starting of the procedure, and we have enough quality material on which a new law can be made, respecting all that the Commission has said and in the need to spread its own powers, but also, it would be good to involve officials themselves in this public debate. Because completely different problems, for example, have officials who perform their duties at local or regional level compared to those who, for example, perform others, as they consider public duties, such as the head of extra- budget funds, public institutions and by accident. I hope that the work of this committee in this Croatian Assembly will be of great help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54610	I thank you for the final word of the chairman of the committee, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54611	Dear colleague Oreskovic, I'm only interested in the answer to one single question. And that answer will actually depend on my opinion of you. And the question is this, do you think that Finance Minister Maric, who has worked for many years in Agrokor, is boss Ivica Todorovic, thinks he is in conflict with his current post as minister. Or that, as a minister because of his past, and as he had, he might not have been able to lead the most objectively, as he would say, his job, the more he himself, occasionally, away from the decisions he had made in the bodies where he was a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54612	I thank my colleague Pernar. Answer, Mrs. Orekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54613	Your Honor, I am sorry that you will have to wait until the Commission as a collective body in the public session to decide on all the applications submitted, on these very same circumstances. So either this session is going to happen during my term, and if not, then I don't get you some re-election, then I can possibly tell you, my opinion as a citizen, but at this point, my mandate takes another 3 months and it's a matter that needs to be decided by that authorized body. And my individual opinion, so far, I can't speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54614	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. We have the next line, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54615	Thank you very much. Mrs. Oreshkovic, I thought another question, given that this topic was current, I am not looking for an answer now, because under the law you are unable to even give it. But I wonder if you think it is appropriate and morally appropriate for a state official to take a preferential loan from the HPB, the Croatian Post Office Bank of 4%, which is a few percent more favourable than it is marketable, and has been appointed there by the state, as a state official in the Supervisory Board. Is that possible under the current law? Is this possible by current law, or would it be a man in conflict of interest to make income in this way? And do you think it's the proper behavior of a state official? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54616	I thank my colleague Maras. Answer, Mrs. Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54617	The responsibility of the commission does not include reviewing the morality of a particular act, we can eventually determine whether it is an injury, one of the laws of the prescribed principle of action. Since we recognize the circumstances of your question, I will remind you that the commission has already given its opinion and has been made public on the Commission's website at this time. Therefore, for those circumstances which occurred prior to the entry into force of the current law, the commission has no jurisdiction to determine whether it is a violation of the law. And if an individual official now asked the commission to give an opinion, then the commission would determine all the specific circumstances of the case. So what kind of credit is it, what function is the official performing? Not all situations and priorities are the same and one principled answer cannot be given to such a question, which would then be a general rule for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54618	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54619	Mrs. Oreshkovic, I see that you and the MPs gave your answer, asked questions and how you requested or received documentation from certain municipalities and cities, and I think that's okay. Because of the hectares and hectares of maritime goods where there is not even a certain limit to maritime goods, with the re-use of agricultural land where the mayors, the mayors and their friends, or I don't know who... They'd rather sell as a farm, and we know what it means when it's refurbished in the construction zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think it's a path to follow. So all spatial plans should be watched because we only need to know the way of the beach concession, the Golden War is just the top of the pyramid. And I highly doubt that Mrs... as in the Vodices, if someone hadn't pressured her to reroute the agricultural land along the coast or not used to, there was no pressure on her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I support that, and you don't have to justify yourself. I'm sorry you don't have any more men. And in 2016 you had one case where you went through it no matter what the pressure, and I think you did your job well there. With all the objections I could give you I think it's mostly very important, I can say for example, I just don't have time publicly to in our county of the entire family from the tops that run the county work in the county, in companies, in companies, in institutions. It's usually right down there. So this conflict of interest is not at all a problem to talk about. I couldn't, I was running for mayor to talk because I didn't have media space, there was no confrontation, they were running away from it. But that's the fact, that's how it works, and don't be afraid, bravely you say that, the spatial plans that are being re-purposed, the agricultural land of a few kunas when the re-purpose is worth thousands of euros per square... There's a conflict of interest to you, an unimaginable proportion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And bravely you say, don't fall under the influence of the mayors and mayors who are from the area down from the coast that will... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54620	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. We're moving on to the next replica of dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Oreshkovic, here I am, my replica is the same as what my colleague Bulj mentioned in the end, so I'm just going to connect to him. Let's face it, I don't think the mayors and mayors should be sending you spatial plans before they change. Because now if all units start sending you spatial plans, then they're waiting for some of your consent, we're going to block the development, investment, etc. So that's not, if I get it right, I'm taking that, okay, okay, something I'm not. But I think a new law should certainly be passed and the number of officials falling under conflict of interest should be expanded. And first of all, it's not all conflict of interest, it has a potential conflict of interest. And just because someone is in a potential conflict of interest doesn't mean they're going to consume it. But why local self-government? Well, there are more conflicts of interest there than at the state level. And now I'm going to garner it. My friend, I'll fight you, just laugh. We had local elections three months ago, just laugh, a large number of cities and municipalities today in Croatia, you have the mayor and mayor of one party, the presidents of city and municipal councils from another party. The presidents of city and municipal councils and congregations are not officials who must teach neither property cards nor fall under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. In my town, the president of the city council, with his private company, gets concession approval on the beach every year from the city of Novi Vinodolski, where the president of the city council has been for six years. And he doesn't break the law or he's in conflict of interest because it doesn't belong under the laws. And that's what it's supposed to be about when you propose a law because, and where are the city's business and business directors? The Director of the Holding of Zagreb who manages a larger budget than half of the cities and municipalities in Croatia together do not have to submit at all any property card, nor is it under the Law on conflict of interest, etc. So that everything should be taken into account when proposing a new law. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54622	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sashi Djujic. Answer, dear Mrs. Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54623	I just have to explain, so the committee is all expensive, along with the people who work on the manual logs of 17 people, and I'm including 5 members of the commission. So we're not looking for the spatial plans of all units of local and regional self-government. It's not about that, it's probably about the case that we got a very specific application against a certain official, we went to see if what was stated in the application was credible and we wanted to have the documentation for it. If not, a decision will be taken not to initiate a procedure that protects officials' integrity and credibility. My God, if it is, a decision will be made to initiate the procedure and to impose sanctions on the injury that is determined. And as for the amendments and the addition of the law, therefore, the commission cannot propose the law, we do not have the authority to do so, it would not be appropriate because we are the ones applying that law. It is that we can only indicate through these reports through these reports, or in other ways, everything we think would be good to improve in an area that deals with conflicting interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54624	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Oreshkovic. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54625	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Honored President of the Commission, Mrs. Oreshkovic. Well, I would have taught what colleagues Djujic and Bulj had already said, obviously they did not understand well, you specifically said. So the commission has to carry out the procedure if, during the change and addition of the spatial plan, the building area in which the particle of an official is located is expanded, you said that exactly as you thought. I would point out once again that the decision to expand the building land and make changes and complement the spatial plan is made by the city council or municipal council. The public debate and public insight follow. So the public is being sent to the full. A dozen consents from different institutions and ministries and re-branded by the city council. When the construction area expands, we know what preconditions should be fulfilled legally. From ground configuration to municipal infrastructure that can lead to that area. It's a minimum of a dozen if not a hundred new building particles, does that mean when one of the officials, mayor, mayor, mayor or municipal chief or his deputy who are mostly not only having a residence but are also born in that area so they have something and inherited, if they have one particle in that neighborhood, that or that whole neighborhood shouldn't be a whole neighborhood and all of our 99 inhabitants in that area, they couldn't get their land in the new building zone, we have to shut down that neighborhood, or we'll just leave it just point-blank as agricultural land and everything else construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54626	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Answer, dear Mrs. Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54627	Again, I do not really know which specific subject you refer to, but obviously there is something that may be considered controversial. We have so far had one resolved subject which the decision has been published on our website, it is about the municipal chief of the Municipality of Gračice, and it was also about the change of the urban plan, and I must say that the commission approved the application by one of the state bodies, so it was not about the application submitted by a natural person, and we have indeed seen that in the procedure it was neatly implemented by law, that all the competent state authorities had given their consent and an indication, but I also know that there are cases when it actually happens in that procedure and something that actually indicates that there were words and some private interests that were not in line with the public. Whether a consultant expert may be involved who is then in a certain relationship of interest with the official himself or something third. Therefore, it is not possible and the priory to assume that the Commission is seeking documentation in order to make a reasoned credible decision entering an area where it should not be dealt with. If we go that way, then the question is, should we even have a commission?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54628	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Oreshkovic. We have another replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54629	Thank you very much. My colleague Oreskovic, I asked this question about spatial plans out of curiosity because we entered a space where we would not manage, neither you nor the mayors nor the mayors. The more the chief brings no spatial plan, the more he brings the municipal council, and your colleague tells you that they are not officials and can do anything the mayor or mayor or mayor cannot. Clearly, there are certain rules in which spatial plans are adopted. And if we go into arbitration, that we as the leaders of the local self-government are the only ones who can't leave anything in the extended building area with dotted plots, because we're going to enter a conflict of interest, so you're going to punish us for it, then it's a space where I think the commission has nothing to do. Not because someone wants this or what they want, but because the rules are such that you can't leave a dotted one. Do you understand me? That you're sometimes forced to do such a thing. And arbitrize what's wrong and what's not. When you take it upon yourself, then we come to you as mayors and mayors, first we ask you what we can do, and then we send consent to all the other bodies that have to give us consent to the spatial plan. So I think in that space, regardless of the justified possible reasons that there will be big ones in the interpretation of what is laughing and not laughing and that some mayor, the mayor, should and shouldn't. And he doesn't bring in a spatial plan, he brings in municipal and city councils, they can make and put in 100 parcels and there won't be anything, if the Chief makes one, then he'll be punished because that's what he suggested. And he has to propose, someone has to. That's the law. So out of curiosity, the question was why now all of a sudden, we've never had that before. And I think in that space, you'll find it hard to manage as a commission, my well-intentioned advice, and you'll see how that can affect all other procedures when spatial plans are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54630	I thank my colleague, Boric. This concludes the debate. I thank again the applicant of this report, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic, the chairman of the commission and the members of the commission, Mrs Branko Lukacevic Gregic and Mr Davorin Ivac, for the reasons. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54631	The report on the Commission's work on the 2016 conflict of interest decision, the applicant is the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 112 votes in favour and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54632	We are moving to the next item of the agenda: - The 2016 Ombudsman's report is the Ombudsman's mother-in-law on the basis of Article 16. Law on the Advocate General, Article 12. Article 19 of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination The law on a national preventive mechanism for preventing torture and other inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment in Article 215. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 39 Attorney General's office. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government has delivered its opinion. I would like to invite the attorney general, Ms. Laura Vidovic, to give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54633	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. For starters, before I start talking about the report in a few sentences, I'd like to paint you a picture of the reality facing the citizens in 2016. If we were to move the entire population of the Republic of Croatia to this assembly with 151 MPs and MPs, although unfortunately there are a lot of you here tonight, a lot less than that would look like this. Your total 12 would live in extreme poverty with less than 1300 kuna per month for all living expenses and 11 would be blocked because of your debts. You 14 would not be able to afford heating in winter and for five, the only source of water would be wells, wells and local water supply, not public water supply. 31 among you would be a victim of discrimination, and most of you would not seek protection. If you were all retired 11 you'd be receiving a pension of less than 500 kuna. If you were all students, only 15 would have a place in a dorm, multiple cheaper than an apartment. These and numerous other data are presented in the 2016 Ombudsman, who in over 50 thematic chapters represents a mirror of everyday life in Croatia, especially the most vulnerable citizens, the poor, the socially endangered, the elderly, those with health problems and who live in rural areas, members of national minorities, persons deprived of freedoms and others. In addition to the analysis and assessment of the human rights situation in Croatia, the report also contains 220 recommendations to competent authorities aimed at more strong protection of human rights and combating discrimination in Croatia and we also give an assessment of the extent to which the data we know and available competent authorities have met the recommendations of the 2015 report. This report was prepared on the basis of information from several sources, primarily 5433 cases in which we handled during 2016, which is the largest number since the founding of the Ombudsman's institution 25 years ago and 86% more than in 2012. A large majority of these are complaints from citizens and for the first time in 2016 they were most discriminatory on all grounds and in all areas of life while the judiciary fell to second place by number of complaints. This is probably for the sake of our better availability primarily through the district offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split but partly because we are more public field tours. In addition to these items, the report has also been prepared on the basis of information we asked for more than 300 addresses from state institutions, cities and municipalities, civil society associations, religious communities, trade unions, social partners, universities, public companies and many others, so over 300 recipients and we used data collected during field work because in 2016 we were in more than 50 cities and municipalities throughout Croatia. Finally, information is also a source of relevant national and international research. And as the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament pointed out, it was drawn up in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism. With regard to cooperation with competent authorities, both in the preparation of the report and throughout the year, especially in the work on individual cases, I would particularly like to highlight the good cooperation we have with the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. While the Ministry of State Property, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and the University of Zagreb are among those who respond to us irregularly or only after more haste. We are certainly trying to improve cooperation with stakeholders and citizens through stronger information on human rights issues and the protection of human rights and the prevention of discrimination, news that we send to more than 700 email addresses across the country. As regards the state of human rights and the occurrence of discrimination in Croatia, several problems have been identified in 2016. It is primarily a difficult social situation in the country, then inequality before the law and the great mistrust that citizens have in institutions at all levels. Unequal rural development, impatience and lack of dialogue in public space as well as tensions aimed at national minorities and questioning their rights. We also pointed to these problems in the years prior to 2016, and for 2016 there was further specific and stagnation of public policies since the legislative activity was extremely modest and that there was no work on strategic documents. And unfortunately, during 2016, we also witnessed pressures on independent institutions such as the Electronic Media Council and civil society organisations. A large number of areas in all areas, a large number of problems in all areas of life stem from the fact that citizens are in an extremely difficult social and economic situation because almost 20% of them live at risk of poverty. As a result, it is necessary to strengthen the social care system, including the increase in the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee, which currently amounts to only 800 kuna for a single person. And set the same base for all social benefits. The supervision of social service providers should also be more effective since it is now carried out by only 5 senior inspectors over 4700 service providers. In addition, Croatia still does not have a social housing strategy that would include all socially vulnerable groups: homeless people, families living in extremely unfavourable housing conditions, young people coming out of alternative care, victims of violence, citizens affected by extreme situations. On the other hand, I welcome the significant change, the positive change announced in the Government's opinion on this report, which is the introduction of a social criterion for granting subsidies for the energy recovery of households as part of the fight against energy poverty. When we talk about local level, unfortunately, although all cities and municipalities have a legal obligation for people receiving guaranteed minimum fees to pay business costs and large cities to provide them with social housing. Part of them does not, because they either do not have the means or simply do not see it as one of the priorities which is another indicator of the inequality of socially endangered citizens before the law and of unequal regional development. Most of the problems are more pronounced in rural areas that include more than 90% of Croatia's surface area. While at the level of Croatia as a whole, the risk of poverty is 20%, in Brod-Posavina and Virovitica-Podravska County, the risk is more than 33%. And that's why it's not surprising to move into big cities, to other countries. In order to prevent it, it is necessary to make rural areas more transport-related throughout the year and to provide citizens with access to public services, and to involve units of local and regional self-government in making decisions concerning them. Part of the recommendations we have made on this subject have already been adopted. A Strategy for Regional Development has been adopted, and expert support for local and regional experts in the preparation of ESI projects that need to be used to a much greater extent. Among the particularly vulnerable groups that often live in rural areas and in major poverty are elderly people, and Croatia is the fourth country in the EU to be poor. 94000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 kuna, and some are hard to retire because part of the pensioners are paid only through banks, which is particularly difficult to hit those in whose places there are no banks. There is no adequate support mechanisms for family members who care for their old, and those who live alone are not sufficiently available services in the community such as home assistance, nor are they sufficiently informed of the risks that result in the conclusion of a life support contract. These life support contracts pose a serious risk to the economic abuse of older people even with tragic consequences, and no protection mechanisms have yet been prescribed to prevent such abuses. It is a positive announcement that their conclusion will be prohibited for persons providing social services and members of their families, but it is also necessary to introduce a register of these contracts and limit their number by their supporter. It is also extremely important because it is about citizens who do not have time, that judicial proceedings for their dispersion are urgent. As far as the problem with performances is concerned, more than 320,000 citizens are in a blockade, 110 thousand of them due to debts that do not exceed 10.000 kuna. Partial amendments to the Implementing Law have certainly come in handy, but not enough. The performance needs to restore its true meaning, and this is the payment of outstanding basic debt with the necessary costs of the procedure, rather than those which often exceed only the basic debt. It is also necessary to increase the ability to collect the debt before the execution, and the perpetrator must be timely and truly informed about it so that he can use his procedural rights and settle the debt with as little interest and expenses as possible. A particular problem is the demand collection agencies which are excessively aggressive and endanger the privacy and dignity of the debtors, and for their business, standards and rules of conduct are not prescribed for their work. As a result of all this, the exercise became a synonym for injustice, inequality and inadequacy of citizens, which perhaps best illustrates the complaint received in the family of poor property that had to be represented itself in the executive procedure after their request for free legal assistance was denied in the Office of State Administration, after they had not received a reply after the multiple expiry of the deadline on the application from the Ministry of Justice. In court proceedings, they represented themselves as the legal ignorant party, and the bank was represented by a lawyer. In such a case, the same procedural position of the parties and the equality of the weapons before the court cannot be spoken of. And of course this family was slow to lose and had to move out of the house. This also tells a lot about the system of free legal aid which is part of the right to a fair trial and in a situation where almost 20% of people at risk of poverty are extremely important to be quality, effective and to ensure real equality before the law to those who cannot afford legal aid. A large role in this system is played by associations authorised to provide BPP. However, in 2016 they were allocated half as much as the year before, and yet small funds arrive only in mid-November and are not evenly deployed regionally, which is why the BPP system is largely inefficient. When we talk about the whole area of justice, it remains burdened with long-term procedures and unequal court practice which violates legal certainty and citizens' trust. According to the World Bank, 59% of citizens believe they cannot expect a fair trial before Croatian courts. However, rather than raising the budget of the Judicial Academy by 72% in the last five years, and it is also necessary to raise confidence in the work of the State's Attorney's Office in better communication with citizens who continue to complain that they cannot get an answer, i.e. information on the state of the case or the response to a presentation from the State's Attorney's Office. The citizens also addressed us in 2016 because of problems in the field of working and official relations. Many remain in fear of losing their jobs to almost anything employers ask them to or deny them as the failure to pay overtime. This, with unemployment, is certainly one of the biggest reasons for evicting citizens of all age groups, all degrees of education, and so will likely remain until employees can afford a decent life for themselves and their families. A step forward would certainly be to strengthen the capacity of inspection services in both the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the Ministry of Administration. As for complaints about official relations, they still come from police officers the most. In 2016, most often due to the performance of second place of work under the written orders of the manager. When we talk about discrimination on work and employment, we have also established in the restructuring of companies, mainly on the basis of age and health conditions. In one of the cases in which we have found discrimination in a large company, it has revised unfavourable contracts after our conduct, introduced a programme of training measures for better paid jobs and education of equal-treatment executives, but how frequent this is practice, it also says that as many as 40% of the workers on the Technological Higher lists are those over 50 years old. For many students of vocational training, 2016 marked changes in travel costs. So those who do not have access to adequate public transport, mainly from rural areas, have lost the right to this compensation which has led them to an unequal position compared to others. Also due to the benefits that employers achieve in the conclusion of a training contract, in practice, the most felt by those over 29 years of age who do not have a professional training measure is almost gone. As for the area of health and here we see inequalities. In 2016, waiting lists for certain checks and procedures have been further increased, making those who cannot pay the costs of a private doctor in a much more unfavourable position. Long waiting lists suit private clinics and for this it is particularly important to set rules and boundaries between these two systems. Public health as strategic and non-profit social activities based on the solidarity of the healthy with the sick and private which is governed by market rules. Part of the problem certainly causes the system's information decoupling but not the patient's arrival on the agreed terms. And in such a situation, citizens are not provided with a timely approach or the principle of equal and accessible access to health services has been brought to life. And that is why it is extremely important to announce to the government in the opinion of our report that the Ministry of Health will, in accordance with the recommendation by the end of the year, adopt a regulation on ensuring medically acceptable time to achieve the health care measures. The specific topic is the availability of health services in rural areas and in islands or in traffic isolated places and is also related to health and environmental protection in which we receive more and more complaints from year to year. As for complaints about discrimination, we received a total of 387 which is 36% more than in 2015, and the most numerous are on the basis of ethnicity, faith and age and in the field of labour and employment, public information and the media of the administration. However, this number does not reflect the actual frequency of discrimination because it is still not reported most often. According to the 2016 survey, 20% of citizens have been discriminated against once in the last 5 years, but as many as 68% have asked for no protection because they think that nothing would change or that their situation would even deteriorate which is an extremely strong indicator of mistrust in institutions. Finally, almost 40% of citizens view discrimination as the biggest or one of the biggest problems in Croatian society and it is more devastating that we still do not have a national plan to combat discrimination. A third of the complaints we take into account discrimination relate to the basics of race and national origin. And there is a growing number of court proceedings that cited ethnic hatred as a motive for discrimination, especially affecting Roma and Serbs. EU Agency for Fundamental Rights data show that almost 93% of Roma have incomes lower than the poverty line and only 8% are considered employees. Those who work most often are employed in public works and many Roma families continue to live in extremely poor conditions, without bathroom and toilets, in containers, in the woods, without access to drinking water, without electricity. In order to integrate them into society, other than, of course, improving living conditions, it is necessary to ensure access to education including for adults directly linked to their involvement in the labour market. Hate crimes, motivated by hatred of national origin, are most often directed towards members of the Serb national minority and are not rarely equalised collectively with those responsible for the Homeland War. They also face difficulties in various areas, official and public use of languages and letters, representations in bodies in which they are legally guaranteed and access to means of public communication. Those living in areas that were occupied except for poverty are also struggling with problems caused by unrenewed infrastructure and the particular problem is that there is not a complete process of electrifying the village that had power connections before the war. Insufficient developments remain in the area of reconstruction and housing. Members of national minorities are often exposed to impatience that negatively affects the exercise of minority rights and to a number of incidents of unacceptable and discriminatory speech and interethnic relations. But the rights of national minorities are not and must not be an act of mercy of the majority people, but are the responsibility of a state that must ensure their respect. Through the prism, the initiative to remove guaranteed seats should also be looked at for representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, according to which they would be elected from the general electoral lists. Animosity has also been directed towards political inexperiences, journalists who have also been exposed to physical violence as well as activists. One of the reasons is that there is also a lack of dialogue in public space between both public and citizens, especially on the Internet. Freedom of expression is often interpreted as a right to speech without responsibility for what is wrong because it can indeed have serious consequences. And in that sense, a special responsibility lies right on you politicians because your words are being transmitted to the public and they reach out to a larger number of people, which is why they have a special weight. On the other hand, politicians rarely identify criticism they receive with hate speech. But by acting in the political arena, everyone must be prepared to be under increased fire by political opposition, and according to the European Court of Human Rights, this includes sharp, sharp and even criticism involving insult, provocation and satire. Of course, unstructured and unargumented statements most speak of those who refer them, but therefore there is also a mechanism of judicial protection, which every individual can claim for himself. When we talk about communicating with the symbols, I can only regrettably conclude that we are still witnessing the relativation of the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" although it is clearly illegal and sanctioned for violations against public order and peace, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on Public Assembly. There is a very clear case law and a very clear case law of the Constitutional Court. Police regularly file criminal charges for its use, courts consistently sanction it, but the ministry in administrative proceedings ignores the legal framework. This deepens the uncertainty, leaves the impression that the use of this greeting, this sign, is legal, and is not. Furthermore, the law has not yet been passed, although this was announced since 2004. which would regulate the setting of monuments and other features in public spaces. Including tombstones and monuments, which would not offend anyone, national, religious or moral feelings, such as those of the dead Serb paramilitary troops in the local cemetery in Borovo Selo. I am left with a brief look at the national preventive mechanism, i.e. the areas of persons deprived of freedom and those who are limited to freedom of movement. Even this year, we have not established actions that can represent torture or conditions that can represent torture, but we are humiliating, even inhumane. The prison system continues to record a reduction in overcrowding, although in some institutions capacity has crossed 130%, and a significant problem remains the health care of prisoners. According to information from the government's opinion on our report, according to the recommendation, systematiced posts in criminal authorities will be filled, and this should prevent situations where prisoners miss medical examinations, as there are no one to take them, but also increase the quality of the implementation of mandatory treatment measures on addiction. As for police treatment, it remains one of the most common causes of complaints against citizens, especially in situations where physical strength is used. And this year, and in 2016, we were also referred to by older people. The team is more concerned by the fact that an effective system of civil surveillance over police work has not yet been established. Terms of accommodation in part of psychiatric departments continue to endanger privacy and make it difficult to treat and rehabilitate. A particularly difficult situation, in which case, we found ourselves in a psychiatric hospital for children and youth. And inadmissible practice has also been observed in homes for older and powerless, including accommodation without the express consent of an elderly person or disrespecting their privacy, and in this system the problem is the lack of employees, which affects the quality of the service, which is particularly worrying in which there is no effective supervision of social service providers, which I was talking about earlier. The number of international protection seekers increased by 957% compared to 2015 until the capacity of the MUP changed, resulting in increased number and long-term demand. It is difficult to involve refugees and migrants in the education system and the labour market, which brings them into a vicious circle of economic and social marginalisation. And in this regard, it is particularly worrying that Croatia does not have a comprehensive integration policy, but only one aimed at searchers for international protection and no migration policy has been adopted. In December 2016, the first complaints of migrants in irregular situations were recorded, which claimed that they had been returned from Croatia to Serbia without individual procedures, and were instructed by the police to use violence. The MAP has dismissed all charges, but we continue to deal with this case, especially in view of the need to conduct an effective investigation which can only show whether there were irregularities. In this regard, I also point out the European Court of Human Rights rulings against Spain last week, which states that deterring persons at the EU's external borders is illegal and contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. After all these problems I have mentioned and many others mentioned in the report, it is once again necessary to say that in the report that lies before you, a total of 220 recommendations to the competent authorities. And this is the contribution of the Advocate General's office to achieving long-term, sustainable and effective solutions. Also, as the authority of the Croatian Parliament for Human Rights, I invite you to use this report and especially recommendations in your daily work and for the benefit of citizens. In addition, the implementation of the recommendations depends on the Croatian Parliament, which is also mentioned among other things that the recommendations of the 2014 report have been implemented to a much greater extent than those for 2015. Citizens on the other hand are increasingly reporting their problems, and there has been an increase of 86% of the number of cases in the last 4 years of our work. I also want to thank them for their trust, encourage them to continue to do so, because this is the only way they can affect change for the better. I am taking the opportunity to highlight the very important role that cooperation plays. Of course, all the constructive proposals and remarks we receive are valuable to us, both from you MPs and from other stakeholders, because they in the far line can make the report even better. And of course, the government's opinion on a report that we understand as a continuation of our dialogue. And finally, I would like to remind you that in May, right in this hall and together with the gathering, a really large number of stakeholders from the country and abroad, we have marked 25 years since the establishment of the institution of the Police Attorney, which at that time grew into a really strong institution and developed from its narrow... the roles of an independent national human rights institution with an internationally recognised highest degree of independence in the central anti-discrimination body and the national preventive mechanism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I must also point out another confirmation of the quality of our work at international level, because two weeks ago, the European network of bodies for equality, has chosen my deputy, Tena Simonović Einwalter, and since I chair the European Network of European National Human Rights Institutions, this means that our office will somehow run two of the most important networks in the field of human rights and combating discrimination in Europe, which is why I am very proud. And I thank you this way to all my deputies, the employees of the office at work that we do together daily and which has led to such results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54634	I'd like to thank the staff's attorney, Mrs. Lori Vidovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54635	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General. If I'm not mistaken, your report didn't go through last year, or the Croatian Parliament didn't give him a passing grade, so here I am interested in one question for you why even though the normal Law on the Ombudsman doesn't predict that we're changing the Ombudsman, why for moral reasons you didn't resign to your post. Is this about pay or are you perhaps not aware of the Croatian Parliament which has not given you a passing assessment of your report? And here you have now been exposed to the Croatian Parliament for half an hour, so I wonder if you feel the political pressure that you said last year after that decision that you feel, that you feel under political pressure because of the decision of the Croatian Parliament which was legitimate, legal and legitimate to stay, but I think it was not moral that you had to leave that place. And I don't really know why you didn't leave. So much for getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54636	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. And I would really like to ask you respected colleagues and colleagues to stick to the subject, and the topic is the 2016 Attorney General's Report. The answer to Mrs. Laura Vidovic's esteemed lawyer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54637	Thank you very much. Of course I did not resign because I do my job professionally, professionally and in accordance with all the highest standards, Croatian laws and international documents to which the Croatian Party is to be applied and in accordance with the popular, Law on the Public Ombudsman, which imposes such independence. As far as political pressures are concerned, since I've been the attorney general, they've been gone. The only pressure I felt was the non-voting report last year, but it didn't affect my work. So I didn't succumb to this political pressure, but I continued working equally professionally together with all my co-workers in the office and I will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54638	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54639	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed occupier's regiment with his associates. I really wouldn't want you to take my replica or my individual report as any kind of political pressure. We've known each other for a long time, and I appreciate the work of the Public Attorney's Office, but here in the introduction to this report, and I've made an effort to read it all over you say that there was a lack of dialogue in public space, I read the whole sentence expressing impatience towards minorities while civil society organisations are exposed to financial and independent institutions to political pressure. Well, here's a colleague, Zekanovic, told you you weren't accepted a report for 2015. I don't know what happened, what consequences you've suffered in the first place. And when someone writes a sentence like this, then the question is, is it wise to talk about it so that you don't take it as some kind of political pressure, but I still have to comment on it. When you say impatience to national minorities, you continue to talk on page 30, in fact, about these data, about the violence of Serbs that took place in 2016, and there were 16. It means letter and number 16, and all that data you received from the Serbian National Council, that is, from the SDSS club. Now I don't know what and how the SDSS is qualified to provide such data, who's checking such data by you or by the SDSS based on what they're actually checking. Because you know she's a representative too... the internationals precisely because of SNV and SDSS data due to the State Department's report being removed because the public actually creates perception that hate crimes are happening at every turn, that racism is on the rise, that it's about clerofashim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's just not good and it should be said that it's about one thing, each case is difficult, but it's not about some kind of overnumerity where there's actually a completely different picture being created in public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54640	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. The answer to Mrs. Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54641	Thank you very much. When we talk about financial and political pressure on civil society associations and independent institutions, there has been a reduction in financial support from the funding of the National Foundation to civil society associations. The political pressure was certainly related to the Council for Electronic Media and the Ombudsman for Children, which is ultimately due to the non-acceptance of the report and because this enables and resolves the law. And in my case, I said that the only pressure I was exposed to was failure to accept the report, but it was not due to strong protective mechanisms that could result in a resolution. So that's the pressure I was talking about. As far as the data are concerned, I also said in the opening statement that we based the report on over 300, on letters that we sent over 300 addresses that included a whole series of NGOs including SNB. We're stating for this information that we got it from the SNB, so there's no further mysteries. We try to make it as comprehensive as possible and based on as wide a circle of information as possible in order to be most objectively possible. Of course, when we talk about complaints, we talk about subjective sources of information. But just to achieve as much objectivity as possible, we base it on reports and on the research of others, and we've done so in this case, so for every piece of information we indicate inside, there's a choice of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54642	I thank Mrs. Vidovic for her reply. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54643	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Vidovic, when you first spoke then you also said one fact that our fellow citizens have the opportunity to see, that in the evening we are in a slightly smaller number than usual. Likewise, it happens in this assembly that there are interesting topics in the evening so they remain the most persistent but this is not the subject of my reporting. The theme of my report is we're talking about the report, or we're going to discuss the 2016 report. 2016 was an interesting year, it was a year when we had at one point an attempt at overcoming quite a failure, so we had elections and there we were talking about public space and public speech where certainly there were some stronger tensions since it was like the first collapse of the government that was there, if we remember all together well, one whole day former Prime Minister Oreshkovic had a chance to talk about why he was leaving and then we were in a strong campaign and indeed in public speech heard sentences and heard words that were inappropriately heard. Similarly, it tells you something about the composition and how elections are conducted, how the need may be, and maybe some regulations, but some things are learned. As you learn and read your report, as you learn and that your report, I mean we don't have to be satisfied with what's in it, but we actually have to discuss why it's written, which was the cause of what's written and that we have 200 recommendations. And compared to these 220 recommendations to say for a report when they will discuss in 2018, 2017, to look at what happened with these recommendations, these recommendations are for the bodies with which you cooperate but these recommendations are also for the parliamentary representatives to actually try to change and make some changes with their influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54644	I thank Mrs. Anki Mrak-Taritash. The answer of the respected Mrs. Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54645	Thank you very much. We also wrote about the increased frequency of unacceptable and discriminatory speech in 2015 directly linking it to election campaigns and then to parliamentary and presidential elections. The same thing continued in 2016, and that is why I have appealed to you as parliamentary representatives and politicians and to the importance of messages and speeches that you yourself refer to in public. As regards the review of the recommendations, it is stated in the report, wherever we had information and could comment on it in certain thematic chapters. Unfortunately, the government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has stopped running a report. So in recent years, the government's office has regularly reported on the implementation of recommendations on a report by the Ombudsman, this year for the first time we haven't received it. I hope that this mechanism will be restored because it means a lot to us just so that we can follow up on the year-to-year recommendations and thus actually measure the common results we achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54646	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Vidovic. We have the next line, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, not present. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. And here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54647	Dear Advocate, the Constitution for all of us must be equal, it is on earth the Holy Scriptures. The fact that you mentioned yourself that 90% of rural areas do not have what they should be, that they are exposed to poor health services, that children do not have the same conditions of schooling, free textbooks, organised transportation and would like to have more to do with it than to highlight the things that were shared by the Croatian people. I live in a place where people have Serbian nationality, I'm extremely proud of these people, good people, contribute to the community, and I don't think we have any problem with that. The only problem is that the people where you weren't loud, and they thought you'd be loud, that's the question, you just mentioned here, executive law, you should have been a lot louder, a lot louder. You are centralized here under the lights of the city of Zagreb, where you make your conclusions, I believe you know the situation on the ground. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty, because of the law that you're spordinating here and they're important, they're living reasons. Bad health services, schooling, executive law, guessing various institutions to certain groups of people, and that's where I haven't heard you as a lawyer. You're centralised, there's people from the judiciary. High officials, no one believes in the judiciary, only Horvatincic believes that he is also clicking. And of course you need to be louder and louder and decentralisation. Go to the field a little bit and you will have less in your description of the things that this one shares and believe me and know that currently there is a national minority in power, the SDSS, the Pupovčevs in power, there is in the executive power and justice of their people, so there is a minority in Croatia where there is no other minority in the world. I wish there were a Croatian minority in Serbia... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54648	Mrs. Vidovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54649	Thank you for your comment, in half an hour I tried to give a general short cut of some of the topics which, of course, could not all be mentioned in half an hour. The question of how the citizens are faced is one of the best done in my opinion in this report, we write on a full 4 pages about the problems of the performance, 4 and a half. We have participated in making or with our proposals in amendments, I would say all the law enforcement laws so far, and we are pushing for a full change, so not only for changes and additions, we regularly communicate with the public including through a newsletter why everyone does not go through it, and I don't know it myself. As far as centralization is concerned, let me disagree strongly with your findings. In 2013, I became a lawyer. In 2014 and 2015 we opened regional offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split. We're in the field all the time. 2016, so 50 cities and municipalities. The last time we were in Vukovar-Srijem County a few weeks ago, it might have been a month or two. We are constantly on the ground and we are talking to citizens, mayors, mayors, municipalities, NGOs, citizens themselves, and this is a great source of information, and that is what gives us arguments and strength of advocacy in relation to the public but also on you in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54650	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Vidovic. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54651	Your Honor, Vice President, Attorney General. I will not look back on these topics that my colleague Bulj spoke about, meaning that as far as the Serbian National Council is concerned, so I, too, have turned out to be a Ustasha in their newsletter, and it is clearly known that my position is so that whoever they declare to be a Ustasha means that we are all probably representatives here in the Croatian Parliament and anyone who has criticized the work of the SDSS and Milorad Pupovac and his ethnic business we are all probably all getting up after that. What I would agree with you is probably my colleague Bulj did not follow is that you responded when the amendments to the executive law were made. You said that what we agreed with HDZ that it would not help all the citizens affected, that much more radical changes were needed. What I don't like is that when we pushed here, we fought hard, when we were hit by certain media for the amendments to the HRT Act where 110 thousand of our citizens are on top, where there was a burden of 35 million kuna when we fought hard to make these changes here and there was this. And now this process will have to be conducted by HRT itself, which will significantly reduce the costs of our citizens. I wish we'd had one support on your side. I hope that support is not missing because you may have been afraid of your treatment in the media. I am not afraid of Marijan Hanžeković, I am not afraid of HANZA Media, I am not afraid of the morning, Free and all other editions and we have pushed it through here in the Croatian Parliament and therefore one large part of our citizens is in a better, much better position and I would like that, as you have supported the amendments to the executive law and said that they still need more roots to support us in this. I hope that didn't go away, so maybe there's a better media picture of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54652	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. Mrs. Vidovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54653	Thanks for the compliment. Obviously, you are highly estimating the impact and role we play in media monitoring. I'm using this replica partially and to say in advance that I won't be able to respond to every replica you say, so that I don't turn out to be missing something based on some other criteria. I just don't think it's effective for tonight's debate. We try to participate in amendments to all the laws from the public debate phase whenever we have the capacity, whenever we follow, follow, try from public debate until the second reading before the Parliament, and we are often on parliamentary committees. Surely if we weren't involved in some part of the change, it's not because of the fear of media retribution or something like that, but because we probably didn't have the capacity at that point. And I believe there are possible situations where we're going to miss something, and there's also very good cooperation, information that we'll get from other stakeholders in which case we can get involved in some concrete laws, but sometimes these rules are quite difficult to get involved in at the same time in public debate. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54654	I thank Mrs. Vidovic. You are free to respond to any replica. It's a matter of your judgment. You have a business opportunity when there's room for it. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54655	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Vidovic. I intend to draw attention not in a way that criticises certain parts of the report but rather encourages you to warn about all the problems our fellow citizens have regardless of who reported it. I think it's irrelevant which side the application comes from if it's true and if it should be removed and if your recommendation would help our fellow citizens have fewer problems and do not appear to the attorney general, or the attorney general. It bothers me more that a part of the MPs here are problematicd by the support of your work and then your recommendations and what you do do are not experienced in the executive authority, or in the ministries. There are representatives of the ministries and I would be interested in how many recommendations they have accepted in relation to what you wrote in the report last year, no matter what you said, that since most of the MPs did not accept your report, your report deserved to be checked out by those institutions and perhaps some of these things could have been applied in practice. What worries me is that of your recommendations, only 27% have been accepted, so if you give 220 yearly recommendations to them 160 remain dead letters on paper. And that raises the question of how effective your work is then. And that's where the MPs should be asked if they can give you support in a way that makes your work more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54656	I thank Mr. Maras. Mrs. Vidovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54657	In the end, I must really respond to every replica. Only in the section relating to compliance with the recommendations. Fulfillment of recommendations from the '15 report. It is significantly smaller than meeting the recommendations in the 2014 report. I see more reasons for that. One is very likely not to accept the report by the Croatian Parliament, which is why some bodies did not consider them mandatory or obliged to implement these recommendations. Another reason is the campaign, or parliamentary elections, that have led the ministry to a good part of the years, and in this regard some reduced activity has occurred. We follow the fulfillment of the recommendations from the annual reports, we try to constantly improve this monitoring system even though it is quite complicated. We follow the recommendations of whether they are fulfilled, unfulfilled in implementation or in consideration, and of what the authorities answer us but we ourselves continue to follow whether this is really how they respond or not. Finally another reason why they're recommendations for '15. filled to a lesser extent than in '14. It's just because it's been a lot less time. These are all systematic recommendations aimed at strategic change, social changes that take a lot more time and, clearly, the greater it is that the fulfillment of the recommendations is bigger, but the support of the Croatian Parliament is extremely important. And I call on you to give this support report just to make citizens feel these positive changes that come through the fulfillment of the recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54658	I thank Mrs. Vidovic for her reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54659	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I've been listening very carefully to your opening speech for 30 minutes, and I may have gotten the wrong impression. I took this material of yours, and now I would describe it in a way right here on page one you're missing a letter, this isn't right. It's not mentioned, two minutes before the end you mentioned to the government that you had a dialogue, you didn't mention all these government activities because on your 223 pages of material the government responded with its 46 we liked it, we didn't like it, I think it's worth mentioning. There are seven people sitting here who are representatives of the government and a unilateral representation of the situation is not what we live today, regardless of how we always say that we are not a perfect state, that we are not a country that has no problem and that this preparation and picturesquely you come here and you say here 5 thousand objects, field work in more than 50 cities, stakeholders' data, national international research, 220 recommendations, it is an impression and the impression can be different from what you say here. You have not said in any sentence what you have done with or what the Government has done based recommendations for 2015, whether in 2017 it will be the same report in a way that the Government has done nothing since 220 recommendations in 2016. I don't think so, I don't think so and don't see it as pressure, no. I'm just trying to create a picture of your report that's simple, we're all doing great, we're doing all right, we've doubled the number of cases and the government's nowhere to go. There is a government, it works, it probably is wrong but not to mention the government at all except in one sentence 2 minutes before the end of having a relationship with the government of some kind of communication in me you should have looked back on giving yet something done because this is a one-sided supervisor having some kind of reaction to the situation in the Republic of Croatia and of course we will try today in the Assembly to discuss what the Government says and also the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54660	I thank my colleague, Boric. Mrs. Vidovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54661	I forgot to mention at the beginning that in addition to the integral text of the report we handed over to the Croatian Assembly and 30 pages of the summary that was led exclusively by the criterion of quantity, hoping that you would not base your discussion and the visual display you have in your hands. So, this is a visual representation of the 2016 Ombudsman's 2016 report, not of the Government's opinions on this report. As for my speech in which you say that in the last two minutes I have mentioned the opinion of the Government I would remind you of all the parts in which I have spoken, I will not be able to read everything but at the very beginning I have said that we have excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Demography, Youth, Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice are wrongly responding to us from the Ministry of State Property, Construction, Spatial Planning and the University of Zagreb. I welcome the significant positive change announced in the Government's opinion on this report, which is the introduction of a social criterion for granting subsidies to the energy recovery of households as part of the fight against energy poverty. It is a positive announcement that the conclusion of a life support contract will be prohibited for persons who provide social services and members of their families but should also introduce a register of these contracts and limit their number by the maintainer. It is also extremely important because it is about citizens who do not have time for court proceedings to be hasty. It is extremely important to announce to the Government in the opinion of our report that, in accordance with our recommendation by the end of the year, the Ministry of Health will adopt a Regulation on ensuring a medically acceptable time for the achievement of healthcare measures and the Ministry of Justice which has decided to fill the systematiced posts in the prison system. That's all before these last two minutes I was talking about good government cooperation. So, I've made very detailed reports about our position in relation to some of the recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54662	I thank Mrs. Vidovic for this answer. The next replica is respected counterpart Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54663	Thank you. Dear Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected representatives of the ministries! The replica is that there is an immediate further explanation and that there may be no further discussion with one wrong thesis. All that you have listed in your 2016 report, which has been specific for many years, are certain problems of society, some have progressed progressively, some of us have been able to correct inter-resorship cooperation and you have pointed out this and your report has actually shown some deviation of society. And now, looking at isolated Croatia, I could immediately begin to get the wrong impression that Croatian society is in many ways negative. But looking comparatively at other European countries, the thesis does not stand, so the conclusion is that this or very similar report would in fact almost identically have and some other countries not to say most European countries. Some countries, of course, are richer, so a set of social problems is lagging behind. But as for discrimination as a burning problem, there would be no difference. And that has recently been pointed out by the European Commission in its report. Therefore, it should be further emphasized that the fact that I somehow missed in your opening statement, that the human rights situation in Croatia, is not significantly different from that of the EU. And it will likely be further debated by some inexplicable estimates that Croatia is some kind of black hole in Europe, that Croatia is the country where human rights are most harshly violated, etc. This should be made clear immediately in the beginning that it does not stand, which of course does not reduce the need for hasty action, to correct all those issues, which are perceived as problems and where we have failed as a society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54664	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Mrs. Vidovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54665	I agree with you. Croatia is absolutely not the worst. Here, the report on the fundamental rights of the EU Human Rights Agency speaks exactly as all Member States, most of the Member States of the Council of Europe actually have the same problems. We share the same topics and dilemmas. And as for discrimination, as in Croatia and Europe, every five citizens feel discriminated against. Likewise, a very big problem is not to report discrimination for various reasons. So here we are, in some things we may be better than the European average, in some of us we are worse, but we are dealing with all the problems that the N-axis and other countries are dealing with.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54666	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Vidovic. Do you think anyone from the government would like to give an additional explanation? No one, thank you. I'm setting a break until 9:00. Thank you very much. We're meeting at 20.45 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.00 HOURS]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGE, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54668	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable attorneys, guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have a report from the attorney general who in a very nice way detects the image of this society, gives us a lot of useful information and basically tells the truth about the situation in Croatia. And that is precisely why some MPs, first of all, react very badly to the ruling coalition because they simply cannot listen to the truth. So they can't even discuss what's written here but they're the only ones who can ask, and when you're going to resign and when you're going to shut up and stop, etc. Because they like that fairy tale about Snow White, they're only able to look at their own picture in a mirror that has to tell them – how beautiful and smart you are, you're the most beautiful in the world. They are unable to face real life unlike you, for a very simple reason because they do not communicate with average citizens. And you do it on a daily basis, it's your job and your life. And you know very well when you write these reports based on what you write them. And individual advocates who move in one of their virtual worlds, a closed circle of contemplators who live like them, like kidneys in the loins. They simply cannot listen to the general, let alone the notion that some people are homeless, that some people are discriminated against, that some people have no rights, that they are extremely poor, etc. And as you yourself said that citizens don't really trust institutions at all, so here's this reaction is classic proof why they don't believe them. Because the ruling set doesn't even want to listen to them, let alone help them. In this whole story about the state of the nation and the protection of their rights, you are the problem of the attorney general. You're a problem for them, of course. And not those people you're talking about, that's how it turns out after this debate we've heard here. And about these problems that are listed here not to be enough for 15 minutes to tell me, I probably wouldn't have enough 15 hours, so I'm just gonna focus on a few places, and the rest of us are gonna try the replicas somehow by midnight at least mention it. Because, of course, it would also be nice to talk about the discrimination of national minorities, which is undeniable and religious communities, also about the behaviour of matches, the problems of the board, the problems of course of Croatian defenders, the judiciary, the work of the police, but here is the time, unfortunately, rather restricts us. What I want, therefore, to be pointed out, is that in Croatia 20% of citizens are poor and 8% extremely poor, which means in some simple mathematics that in Croatia about a million citizens, close to a million citizens, somewhere between 800 and 900 thousand people are most precisely said poor, and about 400 thousand, therefore, extremely poor. Many Croatian citizens, therefore, have nothing to eat and have no place to live. And I am sorry only from this whole report of yours that you did not even mention how many homeless people in the Republic of Croatia would currently be. So we have to focus on some auxiliary indicators, and one of them was able to find it in this magazine of street lamps that are offered every day to buy there in front of the Croatian Parliament and Jelačić Place, a magazine of homeless people who say that the number of homeless people in the European Union has increased by 50% since 2011 and the number of young homeless people by 75%. The assumption is that there are at least 10,000 homeless people living in Croatia at this time, and it is very sad that we, besides tens and tens of thousands of empty properties in the Republic of Croatia, do not only have 10,000 homeless persons but daily increase their number by violent actions and against other illegal and constitutional actions. And right now at this very moment while I'm saying this in Zagreb hundreds and hundreds of dare I say thousands of homeless people are trying to find a place to sleep. Here's what happens if I don't be trusted by a representative of Petrijevcan who says it's a fantasy, I can take her now after this assembly session in the parks in Zagreb and try to find a bench that's not busy. Let's take a walk in the Imported Gallery and other underground garages and see how many people don't even have a bed, let alone their own home. In Croatia, the problem of homelessness is supposed to be solved in a way that every county and every major city has a shelter for the homeless and has an organised public kitchen, but unfortunately there is no. There are only 15 shelters in Croatia for homeless people who have less than 500 places to accept together, which means that if these homeless people wanted to and could come from Sisak to Zagreb where the shelter is, there would be no place for them again. Besides these homeless people, of course, there are a huge number of people living in extremely inadequate conditions that you mentioned that, say many of them don't even have water in their apartment alive and our representatives of the ruling coalition say no, no, that's not so. We live the same way in Paris, London, that's where people live. We don't need to worry about it, we need to take care of limos, we need to buy all the limos, tanks, we need to buy red carpets for the Parliament, here's 550,000 kuna to get nice gentlemen to kick off their legs, we need to buy fighter planes, F16, 12 pieces so a couple of small-towners can wave flags while people sleep on the protein of Importnanne. It is such a distance that you draw very nicely and that our gentlemen MPs, whom citizens of course do not even want to listen to, let alone these 220 recommendations, so they can't even read it, let alone in order to do something about it, you know how many rows of 220 recommendations, so it takes effort. What recommendations, which your recommendations are of interest to you, except for a few honorable exceptions. And why this is happening is really a question. That in Croatia, therefore, we have people who are starving, that we have people who have no place to sleep, obviously because there has been a disturbance in society. Because there are 20 billion living things in the world. And all these living things, starting from the smallest microbe to the elephant, have their own home and have what it is. We're the only people who don't have what it is and have nowhere to sleep and have no home. So we've got the disturbance. And if our ruling furniture understood that it was a disorder, they would simply react and the problem would try to remove without these recommendations from you. Here's Finland, systematically reducing the number of homeless. Many cities in Canada have reduced the number of homeless to zero. And we, therefore, don't even want to listen to the attorney general because he's getting on our nerves, of course not to me, but to those who could do something about it, the key question is how dare he say that minorities are discriminated against or I don't know civil society. They can't see civil society. So now we've been listening to the other day it was the foundation of civil society, they'd rather end it, what kind of civil society, the association, it's a wet cloth in their face. The Serbs they don't like, so they love the Serbs strongest, so here they are in the government, so you can tell them there's some discrimination. There's no such thing. That your office misunderstood. We also have cases in Croatia that while people starve, while people live, in extreme poverty they throw away food, daily mate case bakers... who has been giving people free bread for years and has received 300 thousand kuna punishment because he has given people free bread and paid for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a reality for you in Croatia. I would also like to point out that many of these people who are therefore poor and homeless are not people who are problematic in the sense that they have some kind of social disorder of the type of alcoholism, etc., but are often about young families in loans, reading official statistics, early holders of housing rights, unemployed persons, Croatian defenders, imagine that. Even people who have higher education and can't find a job any more than a special job in the profession. And that also very nicely outlines this report of yours because you say among other things that 2300 students leave high school, it's amazing, I wonder what the Ministry of Education is doing on this issue, and 88% of students only finance their education, that the same percentage of adults themselves finance their education or adult education and that again it is no guarantee that they will get a job because in this country they are not employed by professional criteria but are employed naturally by membership card. We have a case a few days ago that Live Wall warned about and is now known to the public that the director of the library in Slun is being installed by a plumber. And that is not the problem, although there has been a library study in Croatia for 3 decades, we have to set up plumbers because these people who have diplomas and schools are not in a good party or are not in any. At least before they tried to buy diplomas and pretend they had an education now they won't because it's tiring and overpriced and now they're showing their true face. So here I want to say that the reality in Croatia is very severe and that it would be desirable for these recommendations to be respected, moreover, to take the initiative without recommending that the situation change seriously. Unfortunately, all those who have been in agreement with you, who have also been speaking in the House for months and years in these problems, are called populists, called irresponsible, radicals, that they do not know what they're saying. And that is, therefore, a major social problem, that the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia and the executive power in the Republic of Croatia is becoming more and more separate from its people. What will be the consequences of this, we can ultimately predict. So, very bad, and what will be the consequences for you, who dared to say, what is the real state of life with us, it's not too difficult to predict. Therefore, the only thing I can say is that the Living Wall, the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA will support this report, because it is made very good in its being, and most important of all it is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54669	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Replica, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54670	Thank you very much, Vice President. An important colleague of Bunjac that neither in London nor in Paris is ideal nor in Croatia. Chuck, we have some disturbing data here. So 350,000 citizens live in extreme poverty, 100,000 people are blocked because of a debt of less than 10,000, so, because of the directorship. It's facts, it's our reality, unfortunately. But from the debate we've heard so far, here from your debate, even though you've spoken affirmably in the report, and I fully support you, it's the impression that the Attorney General should probably praise our accomplishment. But, buddy, that's not the role of Attorney General. I think we can agree on that. Because no one calls the Attorney General and says, you know, I've received an extremely large pension that tells me to live with dignity. No one calls the Attorney General and says, "I have the right to free legal aid." That's great. No one calls the Attorney General and says, "I have all the communal, social and other services available to me." No, people call the Attorney General when they have a problem. And it's normal for us to discuss problems in the report. And as you said and we agree here, these recommendations, which should be valuable to us, because they warn us, precisely about legal obstacles and obstacles in the system, so that these rights can be realised. For that reason, we needed to be a kind Bible in our legislative work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54671	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his response to Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54672	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdukovic, not only should we be guided, but it should be our priority, an absolute priority, because who will help people in need, if not those people who are not in trouble. So, can it help the poor, the poor? Very difficult. Poor man can be helped by a man who has money. Can it help the sick? It's just as hard. More like sick will be helped by that man who's healthy. Can it help a hundred-year-old, a hundred-year-old? It's the same question. He'd rather be helped by a 20, 30-year-old man than by the one who's his peer. So it's us, who are now in a position to help, who have resources, who have a pleasant life and what's most important of all that we've got citizens' trust in elections, we need help, that's our job. It's not the job of the D.A. for the kids, for the D.A.'s staff, but she doesn't have all the tools in her hand that can help solve citizens' problems. It's our responsibility. I think that this House, first of all, should address the issue of homeless people, the issue of extreme poverty, the issue of school leaving and the question of unemployed young people, rather than what we get on the agenda here in the House. We get as much gas as we need in the air conditioning and as much as the zoo can steal eggs from the nest. That's what our priorities are. And then when such silly topics are on the agenda, then they're being discussed for hours, in the morning, and this super important topic is put in at 10:00, 11 p.m., and they're waiting for someone to physically stay away from going home and everything to be over as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54673	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, at the end of your debate, you said you were worried about what would happen to the Ombudsman, given the report she filed with this House of Commons. It is fortunate that by rejecting the lawyer’s report, i.e. the attorney general cannot be replaced, unlike some of the attorneys, as the guardian for children or the lawyer for persons with disabilities. That's what we had a chance to watch. The report submitted to us by our attorneys is in fact a passage of the state of the society in which we are located. So, attorney general, when she draws up the report, she doesn't present the facts. So, she didn't make up the data, so now, about now, it seems to her that that's what it would be, so now she's presenting it to us. No, I don't. She collected that data from the field. And that's the state of the field, that's the state of our society. And therefore, when we spoke of the Ombudsman for the children, there is no need to vote on such reports. The vote in this House of Commons, in a way that by refusing the report can be changed by the Ombudsman, only because she wrote the fact that the situation in society is inadmissible. However, this House of Highs should work on that report. So, we all here together need to look at all the recommendations we've received and when we make laws, work on it, to get all those recommendations into the law. And no, because we like it or don't like it, we change the report or change the D.A.'s office regardless of what the report says because it's actually a state of play on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54675	I thank my colleague Comparic Devcic for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54676	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Comparić Devčić, I fully agree with you and I am sorry we listen to HDZ members here and even their prime minister saying the same thing that you just said and in practice do quite another. So we heard from Prime Minister Plenkovic that he will strengthen trust in the institutions and we see that he replaces defenders who do not have any political function because they have submitted a report that depicts the real state of things. And to that extent, I can't stand to be criticised for arresting young people who write one comment on a facebook, and not once, it gets arrested every few days by someone. And that's very bad. That's how trust in institutions doesn't come back. And that someone has so much vanity that they can't hear one criticism on their own account that's no offense at all, which isn't subjective or irrational to any of the criteria, but therefore paints only a glimpse of what's been going on at the Attorney General's Office in the last year. That's a very bad message. This shows that we as a society have not yet matured, as a democratic society we have not yet fully matured and that there is vast room for improvement. You're right, on the day that the defense attorneys stop being replaced and when they stop voting at all about things that are therefore made by professionals at that time, maybe there will be some changes in this society at last. But you could see that here some of the things that we heard in the report from 223 pages only have one question when you're going to resign from the D.A.'s office, that's all they care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54677	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Bunjc. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54678	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor's Attorney General, members of the Ministry! Here we have meaning here in front of us the 2016 Attorney General's Report on the state by number, a report by many items, but what is crucial is the areas that are rural, I said in the replica itself. I believe that the Constitution for everything should be equal, we should create the same living conditions in areas that are moving unfortunately now the entire families have been going to other countries for years so that we remain empty hearths and more and more so that we literally have more and more empty entire villages, schools, institutions, but because the Constitution is not being respected. We're going to start from what's most important, and that's life, that's infrastructure in those areas, that's health care. In these areas people do not have basic health services no matter what nationality they are, we are now talking about all people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. These people have no conditions for their children, no school-organised transportation for students, no free textbooks that we have in Zagreb. So we share our parents first because there are a lot of parents in a worse situation first because they have less money than they have in Zagreb and no conditions are secured. So, parents are unable to provide their children with the conditions of education and we know that universities are also in larger centres and cities so that the part in the Republic of Croatia is essentially not respected by the Constitution, the right to education for all under equal conditions, which should be respected in one social state by a socialised social category. So, human rights here in Croatia are all at risk except for the interest groups that have declined from the political elites, which have created certain groups related to certain individuals and are basically sponsors of the parties sitting on both the left and right and they are, thank God we see this crash of the Ivica Todorovic, now they all call it and most of it is called by those who created it. I hope that these jobs will be preservations but it is still food and agricultural production and we know what it means for Slavonia, and for Dalmatia that production, unfortunately, has moved our village. All that was needed for our people and the owners here must be loud, the small OPGs go into the hands of the tycoons who created giants and empires, who held the entire economy by their necks, and therefore today we have empty stables, i.e. Farms in Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Lici, Gorski kotar, we have no meaning of these natural things that should be by nature, by God and man, it is livestock and agriculture, today we have no children's wages, no cattle, no life either. We don't have lives in these areas, and it's because of politics. There you must be loud and I expect you to be much louder because these people deserve the same conditions of life as we have in Zagreb and other larger environments, no less. This is a constitutionally guaranteed right. This way we have two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia empty. We now attract these people to large cities and unfortunately become homeless in time, and while in their places they have decommissioned those homes, their houses, and in this way we can basically say freely as if politics in this way intended to empty two-thirds of Croatia as if it had meant for someone to give it under concession. So we should fight for living conditions in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned 90% of Croatia is essentially a rural area, an area that is nice for life. Croatia is beautiful, our islands are beautiful and we have this possible good life. Of course we have both the potentials and resources that we need to use for the sake of the population and you have to react to everything that happens in terms of exploiting our natural resources where it suits foreigners, not local communities, and not for the benefit of the local population, such as. The renewable energy source of the wind power plant. Wind power plants, subsidies pay our citizens down in... They pay subsidies to our citizens a billion and a half kuna a year more expensive bills that go into the pockets of foreigners, which are our resources and our potentials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what's wrong with all the questions when we look at these areas, I'll always talk about these areas. They don't, so it mostly meets older people who don't have organised transportation to health homes, have no emergency facilities, infrastructure is catastrophic. So many even sowings today in 2017 do not have water supply, do not have a basic condition, do not have water. So we don't have to expect politics and if you people complain about a number of problems that simply don't have the possibility of water. It's, say, Dalmatian Zagora's recognizable by that, and we have numerous rivers, wells nearby. They see these rivers with their eyes clean, clear, and they have no water supply in their places. So politics has forgotten these people. Political elites take care of the way they take care of their bosses who shouldn't have mentioned them, and now, of course, they're the ones who made sure they were who they are, today they're the ones who call them, and they're always found gay, you know. You know our workers, you mentioned entrepreneurs. We had great potential. We had telecommunications that we handed over to foreign hands that our people created. Winning goes foreign, investing in foreign states. Croatian telecoms to damage both local communities and individuals and profits simply disappears here and people even turn off their phones regardless of telephone lines, internet lines, regardless of what their parents paid for the complete infrastructure. In Croatia, everything is the other way around. So everything man created and paid for became foreign property. And of course, people in such frameworks can't stay living in these areas. And you, and we, mostly as the greatest home, must be loud and our voice must be heard. I know these stakeholders are very strong and that they will be ready for anything and everything, but we have to be loud, so here's when we're just looking at our numerous opportunities and our employees who lose teleoperate jobs in telecommunications, INA, in a number of other resolutions that we handed over to foreign hands what our gold, what is most sacred, our country did not look at its workers, its development. So you have examples of Split's Željezara and numerous other companies, and a kilo of iron in the Zagreb highway to Split is not invested. That was before, but the fact that it's a condition. As far as the most important and the most difficult is poverty. That's a fellow Bunjac speaking. So, poverty, people are in containers, people are homeless, people don't have basic living conditions. Local self-government can't have social kitchens and shops enough. It's just that social sensitivity is lost. I hope every single person gets their social sensitivity back. But that's not the case. Unfortunately, people are left alone. There's no solidarity. We can see it every day in our midst, and we can see it in the media. Especially us who are involved in social life, and we can influence it, we must pay no attention, but it is our duty. When I talk about discrimination, every man who has no right to work has been discriminated against, every pensioner who doesn't have enough to live, for basic living conditions, every man who's been charged with banking means, the favoring of banks because no state has any interest as far as Croatia is from where the foreign banks come from, we have also handed over that resource. Only 4 billion kuna gets us out of our citizens' fees and commissions. That's what you keep quiet about. Four billion kunas, not on interest, not on the bills, but out of the pockets of every pensioner, all four billion kunas of the bank are drawn from the citizens annually. Now imagine for 4 billion kunas what we could do with subsidized energy for the wind power of a billion and a half kuna. Now that they've listed every man, they'd have their own home. Politics favored us with the promise of light when we enter the European Union that we will walk on gold diamond tiles and, in fact, who knows what they have signed in pre-accession accession to the European Union in these negotiations. It is simple that every individual has been deceived and, although the people were not exactly unanimous, we know that the entry into the European Union has even been counter-edited by the law that 50% of the people should come out. Therefore, the whole policy is in the wrong direction. What I'm saying and a colleague before me he'll say it's populism. Well, they can say it's populism, but the real situation is like that. We see daily that the population is getting smaller and smaller, and the only thing we have from the European Union is paying them a neat membership fee, and that seems 600 million kuna, somewhere around it is the amount. As far as we're concerned, there's not much in all the reports of that return. So I think we can better protect our interests, our wealth, and that's the sea, and the mainland. Because we need to know that we haven't protected our economic belt that people who could live at sea our fishermen can fly us 3 billion kuna fish catches in our Croatian waters that resell while our fishermen have to go to Ireland. So the islands are empty. All these injustices towards the islands, according to the coast, and in particular, I don't know how much you've addressed to the problem of local self-government how saddened the concession law means the case of the Golden War concession on the beach, the ports, means the man who lives there in the local center, on the island, has no living conditions. That's just before I talked about everything that's good, it's just down there serving someone to exploit. A simple man from Zagreb comes and gets a concession because he is good with political leaders, friends with the mayor, well he received orders from Zagreb. It's enough to be good with the mayor to get the most attractive beach. And to earn money he neither saw the beach nor local self-government benefits from it and of course young people will move out of the island. So he has the resources, we have the resources, we have the potential, but he needs to look straight in the eyes to be exclusively suitable for stakeholders. Interest groups leading policy and implementing policy in need to be loud because you have the right to do so. You communicate with people who point to problems that have no confidence in the justice system. Here's the justice lady I'd like to ask if she can come forward, what does this 60 percent research say doesn't trust the judiciary? It means that the judiciary is holding back the development of the economy, the businessmen don't believe, the individuals don't feel free, and of course they're going to run out of the country where they're going to be convicted of nothing, and the criminals are going to be free. He can clock 7.8 people without a problem and he'll be free. Therefore, the fact is that people have no confidence in the system. We as the highest home to decide, we must not only be a machine to raise hands, we must be the ones to fight and speak from this pay phone and be the center of decision making, because we are parliamentary democracy and we parliamentary representatives are essentially the key to change, we are the people's representatives and that is our obligation. And I don't see any reason why we don't and no one has a stability problem. If we have to go to new elections, if we're not able to do it, someone else will sit behind us like last year were an extraordinary election, it wasn't our problem to tell us 12 people we're not going to get ahead of ourselves, some of the new colleagues of Bunjac and other individuals who weren't in the first session, no problem. Now, if you need to go if it is wrong, and it is not possible that this authority is undemocraticly proposed, thank you one Shex in the hallway of numerous parliamentary representatives from the left, from the right, colleague of Pupovac, who is called by colleagues from HDZ but is a very neat coalition partner. I see that my colleagues are here from HDZ, and I'm not going to mention these others that are the loudest of 1%. I hope that Croatian society will go the right way and protect the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54679	I thank Mr. Bull for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54680	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, you are known as the General Tribunal, and here you have brought forth many of the problems that ordinary people face. I would take this opportunity I read a little bit here while you had your exposure and then I saw one situation going on right now in the plates, just like everyone and the media and politics kept quiet on what's going on in Agrokor, I was already on several occasions telling the First Gas Society that, it's, it's the new Agrokor that's happening to us. The media, as they didn't write about Agrokor, don't write about PPD, we know that the PPD also gave the gift, or donation to HDZ. What's interesting is that the workers of the state-owned company HZ Kargo in Ploča are afraid of being fired because as many as 60% of freight rail traffic has been taken over by a private company from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, so the media is sending them a number of requests no one is answering and no one is responding to what's happening just saying they're monitoring the situation. However, the situation in the company HZ Kargo in Ploča remains dramatic, burdens are driven by a private company, meaning PPD, it is a PPD transport company operating within the PPD group and engaged in the transport of rail cargo in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is interesting is that PPD transport has no railways or wagons at all, but they have a contract on railways, meaning lease with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways. And people fear that if the state HZ Kargo continues to lose his job in the Plots, that 70 workers might be out of a job. Here we see our Department of Traffic on that silence, I haven't even heard the attorney general talk about these problems. So, but we're here as parliamentary representatives, we're definitely going to warn you because it means when we talk about PPD about the new Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54681	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54682	Well, I'd agree that certain private interests, so you see very coincidences, me, when there was a misdemeanor when I went down the road to Sinja, I was in Macole, when there was an accident in there that shecks the leader of the whole story and the owner of the PPD sat together. So these are, of course, political sponsors to them and it's new I agree, Agrokor and it's the same position they're going to get by their necks as Agrokor and Todorovic grabbed the entire Croatian economy so will the PPD and now they'll all be good to the moment until it happens with Todorovic. No one should have mentioned Todorovic when the incentives for the OPGs went to him and during the SDP, Jakovina 2 billion kuna, and before that also former HDZ ministers gave incentives and subsidies that Croatian peasants had to ensure survival in the Croatian village of Todorovic. Now he'll just turn around and go to the PPD, and that's visible, in your case, about rail transport. Therefore, here is only Perra 600 million kuna of wind power billion and a half kuna. So we have conditions for the lives of these people in that space but these resources are subordinated to those sponsors of the parties that are now in the case of whether 'PPD' or 'Conzum' is simply so we know for ourselves that the whole system was tailored by Todorovic, that it was simply a system of K+ from the judiciary of the state, this Supreme Court, of all institutions. Had his own people, Ministry of Finance, Agriculture. All the tribals he's got. Basically, the system is rooted towards it, and now it will be rooted towards another. They just switched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54683	I'd like to thank my colleague Buljo, and I'd like to ask you to stick to the subject, because you've kind of bounced off the subject. But if that makes you happy, just keep going. We have another replica. Dear colleague Ana Devčić Comparić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I almost thought I'd give up on the replica. I didn't know what topic we were on anymore. But it's good. So far, in your discussions, you have often mentioned the Croatian rural part of Croatia. The lawyer mentioned it in her report and in her address. And I'm adding, of course, to the rural part of Croatia and the islands. It is difficult for us to keep young families in those parts of Croatia when there is no electricity or water. And whatever topic we're opening here, I remember that you and I held discussions when it came to the halls, for example, without talking about the education system. So kindergartens, schools, sports and recreation. So, not to mention the availability of social assistance, care, not to mention that people with disabilities in rural areas as well as children with developmental difficulties cannot simply come to everything that can come to large cities. And that is why we are absolutely all emigrated because the state does not care evenly about all its parts of Croatia, and simply when we are passing laws, here and now we are going to pass the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, we are going to cut off the development of these islands, because of course we are going to take the part from which we are building this infrastructure that we are always talking about when we are discussing both you and I and these are kindergartens, schools, it's a plumbing and sewerage. We will simply take it from this law to the islands, so let someone explain to me how we will keep our young in these areas of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54685	I would like to thank my colleague, Ani Devčić Comparic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54686	Well you said, Croatian society has been talking about curriculative reform for years. However, most schools in these parts do not have basic conditions, do not have enough chalk, sponges because they cannot be provided and no one cares about it, let alone talk about information or anything else. That's where I agree. I agree with you regardless of what you have mentioned whether I am in the topic, but the subject is the fact that you have repeated everything I have said, that these parts have been forgotten, that health services are simply not allowed mainly to people in remote areas, there is no secure transport public because there is no interest, no one has interest or local self-government has the opportunity to provide them with, subsidize that transport. Privates don't care they're commercialized, they'll drive the lines they make. And I believe that, you mentioned the good and the halls that worked giants that annually cost Croatia and now to maintain a billion kunas, so Sanader can lift the arenas himself and the monuments around Croatia. Many children don't see what the parquet hall looks like, they don't have a chance at all and we're talking about equality and the Constitution here. Therefore, these areas have to be decentralised, we need these conditions, we need to encourage survival because these are two-thirds of Croatia, even more. The lawyer mentions as many as 90% of Croatia's rural areas. Otherwise we will have empty space, or it may be someone's interest in Croatian politics that we have empty spaces. Perhaps it was someone's interest, regardless of whether it was SDP, HDZ or any government that the money he was trying to go to the OPGs was going to Todorovic and similar. So it was obviously someone's interest, and now we have empty areas, more and more empty. How do you stop it? We have to look for ways, and we have a beautiful state and where at every step it's so beautiful, it has a number of possibilities that it could be three times as many people as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54687	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and Croatian Party of Retired Fellow Anka Mrak Taritaš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the 2016 Attorney General's Report and how it's usually, you know, there's never any justice, and then someone gets that in the morning at 10, and someone gets 8 in the evening. But what's there is. And how the debate is going, and how elan is with us, I'm afraid our vice president is going to have his birthday and enter the second day and celebrate here. But what's there is this on the subject of justice and everything else. But let's get back to the subject. A report whose club GLAS and HSU will support and this report really opens up a number of topics. First of all, I'd like to discuss it. It is submitted by the Ombudsman, who is actually the authority of the Croatian Parliament and an independent institution that speaks of human rights and discrimination that is happening and that is how we should look, so we should see that the report has all the elements that need to be discussed and we should discuss those things that are inside, not to say and vote on that report, which we will then determine whether we like or not depending on who brings it up but how to be better. I have to say that a man learns while he's alive and then I won't go on with what that saying says. Similarly, there was a report by the attorney general of the same Mrs. Vidovic when I was the minister of one ministry and I was very unhappy that she wrote in that report because I thought it was unambiguous, that it was unrealistic and everything else. And then what did I do? It didn't occur to us to speak and to speak against the report, but I am together with my assistants, and at least one five, six people from the cabinet went to a meeting with the attorney general, and discussed what it said in the report to try to make it better next year. And that's the meaning of the report. The point of the report is that all those who can make their portfolio, their field of action better to see these 220 recommendations and that in the following year enough that of these recommendations, imagine that 10% of the recommendations are no longer available. Well, we've done a hell of a lot. All of us, when we discuss, have some topics that we prefer, some of the topics in which we let others go. I will now discuss those topics that I love to discuss absolutely and that is your sustainable development of Croatia, and here is the report in that chapter on unequal regional development with a special reference to rural areas. And now, look at the facts. The fact is that in Croatia 91.6% is classified as a rural area and lives in almost half of the total population most often without proper access to public services. And try comparing it to another fact now. Not so far away in our neighbouring country, or not our neighboring country, is adjacent if we look at the sea, Italy has one city of Milan that has about 4.5 million inhabitants. 4.5 million inhabitants have even more population than the Republic of Croatia, and now that we are talking about uneven regional development, anyone living in Milan has an incomparably simpler opportunity to get all of those public services than is possible in these 91% of Croatia because it is easier because it is more feasible because it is closer. And of course, young people who have real information in real time about what's going on in Europe and the world to decide and go live where they're better. Therefore, a great effort Croatia should have for this 91% area that is qualified as ruralally secure a minimum standard. What's the minimum standard today? So, infrastructure. Not only that road infrastructure, water, electricity, but certain public services, and of course these public services are difficult to get to, but they're hard to achieve, but that's the effort we need to have. We have on the other side of the benephite. So when you see benefites and you see the fact that you have on this side you need to make it balanced. Because of this, when someone talks about sustainable development, sustainable development means that we have about the same conditions for living and working in all areas of Croatia. We know we don't have them, we see it through the report and the occupiers and a series of others, but we must openly say that we have some things that we have no reason not to have in 2017. There is no reason in 2017 that some parts of the Republic of Croatia still have no electricity, no electricity, so we have consequences and war destruction that we have not recovered. Likewise today, we are talking about some municipal services, so this is an opportunity for what is in the report, so people are often left without water, and even those who have a water connection for unknown reasons because it is not defined to the end and it is not clear under what conditions can really cancel the connection. However, this Report speaks of another topic, it speaks of the subject of waste, it speaks of a subject which we will certainly not only in certain municipalities, cities and counties but also in this Assembly, in future, talk about and talk about the unequal development of Croatia. And when it comes to the uneven development of Croatia and when it comes to waste, then these criteria are not the same. Today in the paper I read that one of our cities whose former mayor is sitting here with us will be introduced from February next year's chipped waste disposal bins where you will see exactly who, under what conditions, how much waste is produced. In the City of Zagreb, no matter what these criteria make it to the city of Zagreb, then we can determine that the city of Zagreb is really in the part of Croatia where there is prosperity and where the possibilities of services, in the city of Zagreb it is a mental noun, in that municipality or in that town I apologize for it is not a mental noun and it is still a mental noun to the quantity, to pay waste according to the quantity we produce. And look at the little bit and the Attorney General's report, and what's been coming lately as remarks to the attorney general's office will be coming up more and more. People are asking to pay according to what they really need to pay for, according to the service provided to them rather than to some imaginary one that could at some point be provided. And I certainly have a lot of questions on my email, and I don't doubt that people don't come forward for the simple reason that absolutely certain companies owned by municipalities and cities charge people services that they don't deliver, so they don't drive waste and even less charge waste by the amount produced by that waste. However, there is also a big topic, a topic of energy poverty, and it is absolutely something to take care of, it should be kept in mind that indeed in the Republic of Croatia we have people who live in the dark, regardless of what my last name is, I have never experienced it in this context and without access to basic energy, and thus their health and basic ability of quality of life have been disrupted. One chapter is about housing, and we still haven't taken care of people properly, it's still being handled. I must admit that there is another topic that is very gentlely implemented through this Assembly, which is the Law on renting apartments which is here "mea culpa" we wanted absolutely we came, we had two public debates, we came before the government and then there was no. You should always have a little political will, and it's particularly awkward for them when you come a year before the elections and you have to go with some law that looks at a little bit of the other side for reasons that the esteemed attorney together with the associates knows what I'm talking about, and there's the Secretary of State of the Department of Construction who's still struggling with it. That's kind of what I'd say and I'd dare say from this pay phone that's easier for me, let time make its own. It was somewhere in one moment some fifteen thousand apartments. We did the last research that we had in 2014, somewhere in 3,000 apartments, I think it's about 2,000 apartments that need to be disposed of. A special chapter is the judiciary. The judiciary, when you think about it a little bit, and when you define a little bit what our citizens pass the report, they say beyond all else, and how they think about how they manage the state and then they say that there are three important elements that they are very unhappy with. One element is the judiciary, the other is politicians and all of the over-reals that we do, and the third is the problem of the economy, and when they talk about the judiciary, they talk about justice that is not only slow because the processes are longer than that there is actually a certain legal practice and that everything that is judgments and judgments in the way in which they are passed is not consistently implemented for all. And I have to say that we ourselves are participants, participants in the last time one concept of syncope became a significant part of the judiciary, and each of us at the moment when it might go wrong in his debate, there's another topic he can say to the chairman and I had quite a syncope, I had a syncope, so I didn't discuss the subject that it's about. And here there is an extremely important chapter, which is the subject of discrimination against the elderly population, the population that is in Croatia, so the elderly population, I think, is over 65 years old, even though the desire to make the working population work up to 67, and I'm afraid that something will happen, but there is absolutely a special part of it that is extremely important. It is important to say the information you receive and that you read that this moment in the homes for older and powerless to wait for 24,000 466 persons, it is 136% more than the total accommodation of the users. Therefore, since the efforts of the state on one side should really be made on this one sustainable development by encouraging regional specificities, allowing this unequal regional development to really make it more quality on the other hand will really need to be taken care of to take care of the people of older age, so no matter when we consider it to be for the simple reason that they equally deserve to live in quality, so that they have quality conditions and I am extremely glad that they are also in their exposure and still specifically mentioned by the elderly population who are victims of different agents who make different contracts that we have the opportunity to see, special agreements on life support where they are brought into an absolutely unacceptable condition and an unacceptable situation where the older population is really treated in a way that, after that respectable number of years, should have real rights and conditions of a more high quality age. In particular, it is an important and important part, so we still have homes for the elderly and the powerless, but I would say that the main thing about private homes is the home for the elderly who can absolutely afford it from their own economic point of view, but for the problems of the demented, for the problems of a gentleman whom we all often mention Mr Alzheimer's whom we are increasingly often mentioned when we need to relate to something or to something in homes that are so to say in certain ways the state actually does not have adequate conditions, when it is in private homes then it really amounts to extremely large. This is especially the part that is in this report but is a particular topic that I am absolutely sure the Resorving Ministry should deal with but should deal with both municipalities and cities. Finally, our club will support this report and equally when the 2017 Report is there somewhere in 2018. I hope you will get a more appropriate time, it is always those morning hours, when there will be a little more of us all together in the Assembly. But what I hope and what would be good is that instead of these 220 recommendations, let's say we cut them to number 200 or it falls below 200, I'm sure you'd be happy, but so would we, because you're our authority and you tell us what the situation really is we should insist on, and then it would prove that the executive government was doing something but that we from this pay phone that we're talking about, we told them give them something to do under certain topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54689	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash, for this debate. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ana Devčić Comparić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Mrak Taritash, you mentioned one very important chapter, which is one part of the report, which refers to homes for old and powerless people. That part I read specifically, and the fact is there's too much capacity. So we have private homes and homes in Croatia that are founders of cities and county and of course the price difference is great. What the Ombudsman herself states in her report is that the complaints of the user on that stationary part, therefore, is that part of the home where the immobilized or semi-moveable users are home and their complaints, therefore, that they neither rise nor see the sun as to what would be said, nor the moon. The problem with these homes, here's something that this tall home should think about changing the law. So, on 50 beds, you have 5 nurses and 5 nurses. When you put it into work in shifts and not give God, that someone else has on sick leave, then you are told that one sister and one nurse go to 50 users. Of course, they do not arrive at all the work that needs to be done in care and feeding of such patients, therapy, and all that goes to such protégés take them out in the sun and stay in the air with them. Yes, the fact is that when it comes to the stationary part of the home where he and the care of the protégé should be tried to bring health care closer to the health system. So, like when the patient's in the hospital. We know what the criteria are, I know it's a huge cost and I'm perfectly clear, it doesn't have to be evened out completely, but I think that's where it should be done, because otherwise our home users won't see the sun or the moon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54691	Thank you, colleague Devčić Comparić. I'd like you to watch your time. The answer of a respected colleague, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54692	Thank you very much. My colleagues Comparić Devčić, therefore, you have really identified the problems we have and that is why this report is important, because as you do and when you are in full strength, there are great differences, and the differences are incomparably greater when you are in your older age and when you find yourself in the opportunity that someone else should take care of you. And of course there are those who can afford it, there are those who can't afford it. And those who can't afford are really brought into situations that are inappropriate. Since none of us will be younger and older, each of us certainly had certain situations and certain conditions and different stories in his immediate or subsequent family, even where and where more pronounced when it comes to dementia. This all together in the story can be convenient, because there are some pretty stories there when someone recognizes you, unrecognizable, so try to bring it into some context. But essentially, people of older age when they are demented, when they go into some other old ones really find themselves in impossible situations, and when they're below the threshold that their pension can't cover or their family, then the situation is even more drastic. And what we have the opportunity to see all the time, in Croatia, the population is getting older and older. Of course, the young population that can work is moving out we're all getting older and older together and that's the problem. So, when it comes to the population that is poor, it's an absolute problem that states and units of local self-government need to talk about, and we have to say that they're not able to do it without help, so central states are going to solve it and that's something that we're going to have to go intensively to solve because we're going to turn around for 10 years, and we're going to be with a problem because not only is 24 or 25 thousand people who won't be able to be in their homes, but when they cross the number 50 or 100 thousand then it's going to be more and impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54693	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritate, for your reply. The next replica of the respected colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54694	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, you spoke of sustainable development and somehow I remember the last time I talked to you about sustainable development. You speak as a profession, and I as a conscious representative on the subject although that term sounds like some kind of coin and many think that there are some unusual connotations and implications behind it, so it's good to talk and it's good to talk about this topic and it's one of the important topics. But what prompted me to the replica is that you set a personal example in your debate or testify to an example of inter-resorial cooperation from your personal experience in the Attorney General's Office. And that constructive approach encouraged me to replicate because if there were more of such constructive approaches, there would be fewer of these recommendations. And I share your hope that these recommendations will be in the next term as little as possible, i.e. that the resolution ministries themselves will solve a good part of the problem so that these problems will not be shaped into these recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54695	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. The answer of my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54696	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the replica, in fact it allows me to once again underline the following, we do not have to agree, we can even differ in which direction we think Croatia should go. We can differ worldly, we can differ ideologically. However, these reports are not about us talking about it, but these reports are about seeing what a real situation in Croatia is in a particular field and trying to be better by next time. That's why I said on purpose when there was a police attorney's report it was related to Gunja I was terribly angry or in... Because I think I was convinced that we showed maximum effort there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then when that report came, of course, that's how much more temperament I reacted to than my own. But when I slept through the night, we called the Attorney General's office, arranged a meeting, and we actually realized that the role of the attorney general was to see it from another point of view, another story than we did. We saw it one way, and the attorney general showed something else and that's the meaning of this report. The point of this report is to read it, to see those resistors we're tracking, or somehow we think we can track them from year to year, but the point is that really those 220 recommendations to cut recommendations. It's no use writing the same thing. It's even less the point of writing what you expect someone to like to vote, so they'll accept it. It's the worst possible because everyone can't like it. There will always be someone not to like it, but the point is that in the next year when there will be a report that those recommendations were not to be repeated. If the same number is that some other recommendations, that means that one problem is solved, and another problem is left to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54697	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash, for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorneys with the co-workers, the distinguished representatives of the ministries. Here, let me start my presentation with two cards. First, your vice president's birthday, and then the co-workers of the attorney general who was elected to this responsible international duty, which only confirms what kind of institution we have. We talked a lot about the quality of the work of the attorney general, about how well it works or how much better it should be. But I'd like to illustrate to you the work of the Attorney General's Office the way I'm experiencing it with an anecdote. Last year, I had the opportunity to be a lecturer at a seminar for parliamentarians in Namibia. We discussed human rights, the periodical supervision that parliament has carried out over the implementation of agreements that regulate human rights, and I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the deputy attorney general of Namibia, appointed there by the president. Okay, that's irrelevant now. What I'm saying is when we started talking, she asked me where I came from. I said from Croatia. And she said: "And from Croatia, yes, yes, to Laura Vidovic, your lawyer. The great lady." So, if such a voice has come to a distant Namibia, I think we should be more proud of what we have and therefore strengthen that institution. They say repeating is the mother of knowledge. I talked a lot about these and similar reports when they were in front of this House. I've always pointed out what an institution of attorneys is, how important these recommendations are to us. I could say that again. I could talk again about the media presence of the attorney general we talked about a lot, about cooperation with the authorities of state and local self-government, etc. But I'd like to ask one rhetorical question actually for thinking to all of us. In fact, the fact that in 2016 there were the most complaints or the Office received the most complaints since it existed. I would like to believe that because more and more citizens know that the attorney general exists, that he knows what the attorney general is doing, not because the situation in Croatia is worse, or because he has more discrimination and violations of human rights. I'd also like to start with things that I see as positive, and that's mostly field work that's being said here in the report. We also discussed a lot of this by the attorney general herself when she took up the post or when she was appointed stressed the importance of regional offices, field work as much as possible for the Office of the Public Attorney to the users or citizens on the ground who often cannot afford to come to Zagreb, to come physically to the office to send the recommended mail, etc. So, regional offices are working. Over 50 cities and municipalities were visited by the Office of the Public Attorney's Office in 2016 and I think it is certainly a clue on which to continue and which, in accordance with the possibilities, should therefore be extended and promoted financially and staffed. What's also interesting to notice is that I would leave the same to consider to all of us whether it's a positive indicator or not, which is that the complaints on the judiciary are elsewhere. I'd like to believe that's because our courts are better, but I think I can give an answer right now, which is to doubt that. Because there are just a number of complaints about courts or the length of court proceedings. But it's interesting to note that here are the complaints on the judiciary only elsewhere, and so far, if I'm not mistaken, they've always had... So they were always the first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is room for concern. Here, let me quote the attorney general himself: "Poority is the greatest enemy of human rights especially when we know that a third of the citizens in Croatia are at risk of poverty." And that is a fact. 350 thousand of our citizens live in extreme poverty. One hundred thousand as I said, people are blocked because of a debt of less than ten thousand kuna, so it's mostly about direct debts or unsettled directories. Pre-condition. One of the preconditions certainly would be to be a country at the level of human rights so that they would like to be and how Croatia, without further ado, deserves to work on this component, which is an economic component. Because if we look at where discrimination and irregularities arise from which three or so people are motivated to sue the office, these are exactly three of the main reasons in the report. The first one's a piece of shit. The second is mistrust with institutions. And the third lack of tolerance above all in public space, which then, so each of these reasons generates some problems. Since I don’t have enough time to talk about anything I would like to put a few emphasiss on several segments that I consider to be extremely important, and that’s what counterpart Mrak Taritash was talking about about about insurgents and old people. The fact is, we're society that's getting older. The fact is, our pensioners are, above all, in a more difficult situation. They can also say that from their own example of parents who are retired, who do not have so much income that they can live independently and carefreely. But there are those who live much worse. The very fact that many of our pensioners and old people live in isolated areas where public services, social care, health care and all other concerns are not available to them as well as to those living in major areas, is also something to think about. So some don't even have basic conditions for living, so they don't have electricity, they don't have water, etc. etc. Also taking care of the elderly and the powerless, the sick is also a problem that we will have to deal with soon and very seriously because we are saying a nation that is getting older. My colleague, Mrak Taritash, mentioned that the state's institution doesn't have enough, long waiting lists. Private homes do not provide specialized care, i.e. they are more general and can only be used by those who are fortunate enough to or have sufficient income on their own, so pensions can pay or have children who can enable them to do so. Unfortunately, they're in the minority. And then when we talk about old, elderly people who need special care. For example, Alzheimer's were mentioned here, and they mentioned people who really require special care. They are mostly not powerless persons, but are simply demented and require special care and care that not all institutions can provide. There are also life support contracts, and I'm glad that here and the lawyer herself said that we have certain shifts, that the ministry has been activated, so we'll be able to take abuses to the least possible extent, and unfortunately there have been. The second segment we need to talk about and what is also not only Croatian but also European reality is migrants and asylum seekers. So, apart from the fact that there is a complaint about the conduct of the MUP, that we have problems with integration, access to the labour market for asylum seekers. The fact is, we don't have immigration policy. It expired in 2015. The number of international aid seekers is as we have heard growing by almost 1000% and with the same capacity the MUP handles them. So that's definitely the thing that we're going to have to pay special attention to for a number of reasons. The migrant crisis is far from over. Migration and large population movements will continue. Croatia will be on a migrant path. In Croatia, some of the migrants will probably want to stay. We must be prepared from both human rights and from the point of view of infrastructure. So we must be prepared for the challenges ahead. Otherwise, in the Council of Europe, especially in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there is almost no session where the migrant crisis is not one of the topics in one way or another, unless it is the only topic. So it's definitely something we have to think about, which we're gonna have to deal with sooner or later. And the 2015 crisis was really the only thing I would say to the alarm that we must seriously and quickly start preparing for a new reality in Europe and the world. Citizens' inequalities under the law are also one of the major violations. Distrust in the institutions of the state, long-term proceedings, as we heard free legal aid is still ineffective, and many are not available. It is sad to hear that certain families cannot, although they have the right, so in law theory they cannot exercise the right to free legal assistance especially when they lead disputes, and we have had the opportunity to hear, therefore, about their existence. This has to be fixed, we have to get rid of it, and that Justice Department has to be more proactive. Although we have 5433 cases, many citizens still do not report discrimination. We also heard the reasons for fear, ignorance, and sometimes uncertainty. But I'd like to believe again that's one rhetorical question, that's one thing to think about, that most undeclared discrimination is not because the citizens are afraid, but rather because they don't know. Fear is like a colleague pointing out about the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is bad, especially when it comes to the institutions of his own state. And I think fear should be the last thing our citizens should be worried about if they want to report discrimination. And bring this debate slowly to an end. We certainly need to be proactive, proactive in terms of implementing these conclusions. I am pleased to hear that a certain number of institutions respect and implement recommendations and conclusions by the attorney general. I'd like this House of Commons to join that number of institutions, that we too be those who listen to the Ombudsman and who use her data, her recommendations. Because I say this is very, very important and vital vital information for the movement of further legislative activities in our Parliament if we want to give our citizens the best, most efficient and most enforceable laws for their benefit. We should also be proactive in setting new standards. The Istanbul Convention is one of the examples definitely which Croatia has not yet ratified. This morning we had a meeting with Romanian colleagues, they ratified the same as Serbia. Almost all of our neighborhood has ratified. I don't know what we're waiting for. Because we're not talking about protecting minority rights here. Women are not minorities, women are more than half, so 51% if I'm not mistaken. We must protect her from any domestic or other violence. The European Commission also mentioned in its report in April a reform of education that is of paramount importance, and therefore it must continue not in politics but primarily in the interests of our citizens, and in this segment, both in the interests of human rights and in the promotion of human rights, and where the European Commission says that effective and quality education means elimination of prejudice. When students can also be exposed to different cultures, religions, when they learn about them and not learn about them through certain prejudices and already created attitudes, formed attitudes that others convey to them, it is much more effective and will make a much smaller number of prejudices especially if we have minorities and different religious, ethnic, etc. which are integrated into the normal teaching process, so where students grow up together, it may be the most effective way to eliminate such prejudice completely. And in the end, I'd like to discuss this more... What we were talking about in this publication, this picture book I would dare say is a good start, so very picturesque and very summed up everything the Attorney General's Office has done along with all the recommendations, so basic statistics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'd like to discuss these very conclusions more, more of our laws, see what's wrong with the laws, how to fix them, and how our debate can be more about how to fix a certain law and less about who did what job, who chose whom, which most and such things, I don't think that makes any sense in this debate. In the end, the D.A. chose this House, she's our authority, she's our institution that we should strengthen, she's ours, I'd say lacmus paper or conscience, one that needs to point out all the system shortages and all the rights that we can fix. That is why the SDP Club will support the Ombudsman's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54699	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54700	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Col. Hajdukovic, the fact that Bushman or Damara are in Namibia or Viloki in there impressed by Croatian Ombudsman Lorom Vidovic doesn't impress me. I would prefer that Croatian citizens are impressed with the occupier, if they knew about it as much as possible, if they understood it as one moral pillar of this society, as one righteous pillar, one righteous pillar, one true pillar in this society, it would somehow impress me more. And you and I are going out, and you know, if we could translate this report into English and offer it to our colleagues, it's actually a picture of our Croatian society. I don't see that picture like that from a series of things, I'm sorry I can't talk about this anymore, maybe in an individual debate, but I'll tell you, you've touched a part about discrimination and a crime of hate. A crime of hate as a criminal offence is being collected through the Ministry of the Interior, through the DORH, through the Ministry of Justice and the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. In 2016, if you read this carefully and this is highly favored in Croatian society, hate crime, hate speech, we are full of the mouth of the NGO sector of the attorney general. It is said "35 incidents of which 12 were related to the same perpetrator have been reported according to the MUP data. The DORH has acted in 37 cases or in two smaller cases and the Ministry of Justice points to 21 judicial proceedings conducted during 2016." I say, I don't condemn any hate speech, which is about 90 to 4.2 million inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. Isn't that a little too much, one completely bad and false picture of the hate crime in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54701	I thank my colleague Babic. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babic, I don't know I'm maybe 15 minutes is a little long, maybe I wasn't 100% focused but I don't remember mentioning a hate speech. I've done more and I don't care how our citizens live. My heart is at the benefit of our citizens, especially vulnerable groups, and I think our old pensioners and the powerless, the sick belong to that particular group. To know about the attorney general, so if I were always saying that, if our debates here about the attorney general allowed me a little bit more of that spirited term on the subject in the morning, maybe more citizens would know who the attorney general is. We've been talking a lot about how much the attorney general comes forward in the media, that she's not present enough in the media, that she can't be heard from, that she can't be seen. From a report I think far away in 2013, don't hold me by my word, I've listed her activities, or in 2014, I don't remember anymore, so I've listed her media activities from press conferences, from different press memos, from round tables, from the stands. Do you know how many have been transferred? Very, very little. Usually they'd get a line in some newspaper, get maybe two seconds in the journal if that's it and that's it. A little bit of me thinks that we share responsibility with the attorney general to promote her office as much as possible in the sense that citizens know who they need to address and why. A lot of complaints come that have no basis, the attorney general can't deal with it, so she can't change the power of judgments, but if it's about the longevity of the process, it can help. Our job is just like hers to inform citizens about it and the fact is that the application has more than ever. I say, I'd like to attribute it to the fact that more and more citizens know what she's doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54703	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54704	Your Honor! Dear colleague Hajdukovic, as you said, this House has chosen our attorney. She's our authority and this home was a year ago not adopted by her report and you're aware of that, you know that fact. However, she still stayed where she was and did not thank her post. She was a little before very interesting even though whoever gave her the authority to do it said it was not good, that she was not satisfied, she had just before defended herself and said, "Yes, but I am estimating myself by passing grade." Like when a child comes from school and says she got one, the teacher gave one, but the child says, "Yes, Mom, but I knew about five," or "I knew about five." That's about the same thing. So, the one who evaluates you, he rated you as one, not enough grade, and you still didn't go back to that class or leave, means going to some other direction, but you stayed where you are because you rated yourself with a passing grade. But here's a question. Actually two questions. I guess there'll be time. A comment. The attorney general, along with the Advocate General for Gender Equality, says at one point, is not often in the media, but when it says something this great. The provision of a constitution in which marriage would be defined as a community of women and men would represent bringing extramarital and same-sex communities into a more unfavourable position if it were a discriminatory provision. It entered the Croatian Constitution. So, the lady thinks she's outside the Croatian Constitution, that she can interpret the Constitution better than the Constitutional Court. Your comment. And you also mentioned the Istanbul Convention. Well, the Istanbul Convention, my dear colleague, although your party is constantly lying about it is not what you say it is. It's not one document that protects women from violence, it's a document that's in a fine way a perfidious way trying to serve their own ideology, and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54705	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, if we are talking about independent institutions, the Advocate General should be an independent institution. I don't think we're adopting that report, but we're taking it into consideration. I'd put it that way. If we take it into consideration, then what, are we voting not to take it into consideration? That we've made him aware, but we don't understand what we're even talking about. This is a real precedent for Croatian society. As I said, the Attorney General won't write about someone getting everything he needs because that someone isn't going to address the Attorney General's office, they won't have a reason. But they'll warn us where we have the shortcomings and which we need to solve. So we have to look ourselves in the mirror and say we have a problem. We have a problem, yes. Let's get him out of here. How? Here's the Attorney General. She's already making some recommendations in the form of recommendations. So, if we're talking about voting or not voting, I don't know. We voted not to take notice, but we heard it before and received it. I think it's oxymoron, but good. When we talk about the Istanbul Convention, so I don't know, here's your advanced party, I guess the only one who doesn't accept something that's the world's fluid that some Serbian Vucicians can accept. Why don't you explain it to me, because I don't really know anymore. We're talking so much Wolf is like this, Wolf is like this, advances like this, they're able to accept something your party can't. I really don't know what the problem is. If we're going to let ourselves really be the only one in the neighborhood who won't adopt a convention aimed at defending women's rights and protecting women, then I don't know what we need to talk about. And finally, in the Council of Europe, I have often mentioned the topic of human rights enforcement or the preservation of human rights by members, and I fear that through monitoring commissiontee or the Committee for the Monitoring of Implementation and Croatia will come very quickly on the agenda thanks to these moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54707	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. We have the next line. A colleague of Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mr. Hajdukovic you mentioned among other things in your presentation, I don't have time to devote myself to everything but you mentioned the reform of education and you said that it should not be ideologically colored. Here, I agree in principle. We can never abandon ideology, but what I think is that facts and dialogue should always be first, not politics. However, what happened, which is unfortunately mentioned in the report that some political parties, members of some political options, used the issue of education and the situation in some universities to promote themselves, their ideology, their political views, etc. So, unfortunately, this report also mentions the university's student plenary at the Faculty of Philosophy, mentions that freedom of movement has been disabled, etc. The attorney general should know as a lawyer that the student prey is no legitimate body or student representation, that it does not have any legal basis or justification, that it does not really represent anyone. On the other hand, what happened is that some parties are not going to say which but those present here in the Parliament used the meetings of that prey to send some of their messages and use the whole situation for their own political promotion. I don't think that's a good way to go, and that's exactly how a false message is sent about education and what kind of education reform should be, and it's especially bad that such a message is sent by political options that have completely interrupted the flow of new doctors, assistants into the system, whose government officials left at the end of the term several hundred unsolved cases, etc. I think that's how we send the wrong message and the wrong values, the message of the wrong values on which our education should be based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54709	I thank my colleague Falcone. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54710	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sokol, I am pleased that we agree that the reform should be devoid of the worldview and that, in my opinion, an effective and good education system should be informed, not indoctrined. So I'm going to remind you of some of the discussions that have been conducted both in this home and around this home, and that was whether we should be taught in schools of our croationism or Darwinism, that Darwinism is nonsense, that theory of evolution is what it is. Well, we can't if we're going towards reforming an education that denies facts, and evolution is a fact then we're talking about a very ideologically colored reform of education and not on this side of the assembly. And since you mentioned the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, I'm very glad that you mentioned it, so when we talk about basic and human rights to take away students' right to gather at their own university, to take away their right of movement. Well, it's not that college that's out there for itself. It's because of those students. And that OK may not be an official formal body, but the students are the ones that made that college exist. Students should be heard as well as any other citizen. We also say that students should be the drivers of our society, that they are young forces, that they should be idealists of those who change the world. And we're choking them at the very beginning. How's that? I can't get together at my own college. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54711	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I fully agree with you that the adoption, or ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and how it contributes to the protection of human rights, which is definitely the protection of women victims of domestic violence. Many of which would raise standards in the number of women's shelters in legal, advisory, financial and any other assistance to these women, which would certainly result in greater protection, i.e. by preventing domestic violence, and when there is already violence and the protection of victims and no intensity of the Istanbul Convention is the promotion of any ideology, these are obsessions, and these are subjects that are constantly served by some who simply don't know what they have against the protection of women victims of domestic violence. Second, when you spoke, you touched a little education. And I totally agree with you, there are a number of problems still when we talk about discrimination in education, and I think we need to provide education that is available to everyone, education that is inclusive. There's a lot of trouble at all levels I believe we'll make it to them. But what happened at an institution like the Faculty of Philosophy that should be a waste of free thought, which should be in some way a role model of social role model. It is an intellectual social elite that forbids students, prevents freedom of movement at a Faculty of Philosophy, where students, together with the Faculty's administration, are required to conduct colleges. This is the purpose of the academic community, where the prodetanica for international relations and funds is being replaced, it seems to me, just because it opposed one decision to bring KBF and FF together, thinking that it is discriminatory, is something that you certainly asked me, here I could not believe that this would happen in the 21st century and that is something that I think Croatia of the 21st century, modern Croatia and our education does not deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54713	I'm sorry about my colleague, Voter. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54714	Yes, colleagues, I agree with the availability of education is one of the problems that we will have to deal with in the future for a number of reasons that are sometimes geographical, but sometimes also for other social reasons. So that's an area where we're going to have to work a lot. The European Commission itself has seen it and I always say it, perhaps I am subjective to the fact that I was a teacher, or teacher before I became a parliamentary representative, but education is the key. We can solve a lot of problems through quality education. Among other things, reducing prejudice, reducing hate crimes. So we can make our students really responsible young people, citizens, who will be at the height of their country. When you talk about the Istanbul Convention, I've had a chance to visit the Safe House in Osijek. Seeing women who were victims of a family settlement, seeing children who were victims of domestic violence, and through their work as a teacher, or teacher, I was often in contact with such cases. Anyone who once saw it is very clear what and what kind of scars violence in the family leaves. These aren't scars, the bruise will pass, the cut will heal, but some scars stay forever. And that's why, that's why I'm willing to do absolutely everything I can as a legislator in this case, to protect the women of the victims of violence, the children of the victims of violence and the men of domestic violence, because that's what happens. Family violence is one of the worst forms of violence, because it puts up with the whole family. And I think the Istanbul Convention, and here it is recognized by some political options that we do not see as particularly progressive, have recognized that the Istanbul Convention is a step in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54715	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Next replica, respected colleague Ana Devčić Comparić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, what has been bothering me today after these discussions so far is that in the 21st century we don't know or we don't want to know what independent institutions are and what their role is in one country. So, as long as we vote and our voice and voice in this House are dependent on the defense attorneys or the D.C. Independent institutions, regardless of who they are, will not be independent in this country. But actually, I'm the one who gave you the benefit of the doubt. And I gave you a line because you and your colleague, Mr. Tarritash, mentioned our old and powerless, and especially those who, therefore, have dementia. And the attorney general's report warns that our homes are actually inappropriate and are not tailored to people with dementia, what I want to warn you is that we're going to have to start thinking about opening specialised institutions or nursing homes and caring for older people who have dementia. Because what I did in Mrs. Dark Taritash's first line listed if we had one nurse and one nurse on 50 people in our home we can't expect one sister and one nurse to also care and care for the people who need special care and care, so this country will have to start thinking about opening specialised homes for old and powerless who have dementia disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54717	I thank my colleague Devčić Comparic. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54718	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! I agree with you, colleague, that's what I said through my debate. I'd just like to say something else a little bit more than you do. So not only should we start thinking about specialized homes, we should start thinking about it yesterday. Unfortunately, I have an Alzheimer's case in a tight family and I can tell you firsthand that it's actually very embarrassing for the patient himself, but also for his surroundings. So these are not people who are powerless, who have other physical needs that they can't do on their own, these are people who have dementia, who have a problem that is primarily a mental nature, and they can't often and in the family because in the modern life that we all do, they have other jobs and obligations that can't receive proper care, they can't always be with them, they can't look after these people because we're talking about adults who are able to hurt themselves and others because of dementia, and we don't want to. So we should have talked about such institutions and institutions, we should have started thinking yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54719	I would like to thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54720	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Ombudsman, distinguished representatives of ministries, respected colleagues and colleagues! I'm also joining the attorney general's birthday cards. If I had to speak in one sentence today, I'd say listen to my speech last year. That's what I could say because I don't think we made significant moves compared to the report we discussed last year. In short, not much has changed regardless of the efforts of Ms. Lore Vidovic and her team that are doing well. The problems we have warned about are not solved and very little can be done by the Office of the Attorney General in view of the limitations of the powers it has. We have had several excellent meetings regarding the situation in which we have gathered and other institutions of problems we have detected well but despite the pressure on local authorities and communication with the ministries nothing has been achieved specifically for the problem of Roma families in the area of the town of Delnica. So, they will welcome another winter in the woods without the basic conditions of life. In detecting these problems, we were helped significantly by the Regional Office of the Public Attorney who repeatedly went out in the field and, as far as I know, the local authorities have not taken significant steps in taking care of these families. By the way of the Ministry of Finance or Customs Administration, I lobbyed to secure certain containers to temporarily move these families under any kind of roof over our heads where we succeeded but instead of being praised by the local authorities they later attacked us for why we did so. Although it is easy to assume in advance the report before us and this year confirms that the Roma national minority is the most exposed group when we speak discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity or national origin. The report states this, I quote: "Many Roma in the Republic of Croatia continue to live in extremely difficult conditions below each level of dignity. They are even 93% at risk of poverty, the educational structure is extremely unfavourable and only 8% is considered an employee. The settlements in which they live are often spatially isolated without paved roads, water and electricity connections and sanitary nodes while residential facilities are very wasteful, which is a health and safety risk, prevents their integration and often cannot report their residence because they are not the owners of the land on which they live. The measures to encourage Roma employment have extremely modest effects and are also faced with difficulties in achieving health care and welfare rights. Finally, in fear of the negative consequences, they are often afraid to report discrimination."The problems, as you can see, are still comprehensive and the fact is that the government has adopted an operational programme for the Roma national minority is giving a new framework with which they should act concretely, especially in the process of further legalisation and regulation of Roma settlements. In the next few years, we will certainly make significant steps in this regard. Of course, the report is not only about the Roma, but also about all citizens whether it is about work and employment problems, older people, defenders, status rights, energy poverty, health, unequal development of our country, performances. But what's special to the Roma and why they are particularly highlighted in these reports is that they are endangered in all these areas and then further on an ethnic national or racial basis, whatever they call it, and we're all aware of that. The report also mentions various social and political processes in recent years, primarily relativising relations with the so-called regime. The NDH and the excessive debate on totalitarian regimes, which the Roma of course noticed but did not themselves participate in such controversy whether it was associations or Roma representatives, did not participate, not because they did not notice or feel it but simply did not have room for such topics in view of other problems. However, I would like to say that we are certainly directed and concerned by such phenomena that we are all directed and concerned by such phenomena. It should also not be forgotten that minorities are generally dissatisfied with the ideas that bring their representation and organisation into question. The rights of minorities stemming from the Constitutional Law are questionable in ways that are not appropriate until the same law is sufficiently implemented. It means that there is a question of minority rights, but not rights that really do come true, but rights that should be realized. For example, we often hear that minorities have the advantage of hiring in state administration bodies and in the professional services and offices of the government. But nobody's talking about that percentage being unfulfilled, that it's less than the share of minorities in the population, that since 2013, it's been in constant decline. In addition to everything I quote, it should not be forgotten that this is essentially not about the Roma, because we have all one Roma working in a national institution, and the other couple are by number a statistical error. The famous rights of minorities at least when we talk about the Roma national minority are not nearly fulfilled. In addition to the problems that I have already cited, which are too small of the powers of the Ombudsman, which comes down to some warnings, is the fact that there are no sanctions for not implementing the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Who's going to answer because he doesn't enforce the Constitutional Law? When we talk about language, the Roma language is not yet recognised, although we are talking about the problems of Roma children's education coming to a primary school without sufficient preparation and knowledge of Croatian language, and later and when conditionally speaking, they do not enjoy the right of their own language according to the C model or any other model because the process of curricular reform has been stopped in the midst of the process of adopting this model. On the other hand, it is undeniable to have a partner at the Ministry of Science and Education and to have Roma provide significant support. But it's not just about the means, it's about the application of those models. You may recall when I called Prime Minister Oreshkovic at the time because the scholarships were almost a year late, but to this day we have not worked better on this process of scholarshiping Roma students. The competition for the current academic year has not been opened yet, and it is during these first months of study that they need support in order not to give up their studies. It's not about the funds again, especially since it's about 20 students, but the system doesn't work well. They'll get anything under the scholarship plan in the second semester of academic year, which doesn't make much sense. The same applies to other categories of students financed from the same source, the National Foundation for Support for Student and Student Standards. I hope that, in the near future, we will transfer this whole process to a ministry where we are doing excellent work on some of the current issues in a very specific way with Assistant Karin. I would like to point out that there are certain rights that are prescribed but that they are not implemented, and on the other hand, certain media and groups are setting up an unreal picture of the Roma enjoying some surreal privileges. What a privilege it looks like to see on page 42. The report we're discussing. The report once again confirms that the bewitched circle consisting of education, housing, health and inability to access the labour market. And I would especially point out, the problem of adult education for which we have no solution and the possibility of funding at all. The fact is that the largest number of Roma must approach education retroactively, and the fact is that they often understand that at a more mature age. There is not enough solution for such projects. Then it is no wonder that Roma do not use employment incentives or other projects of the Croatian Employment Service and the Ministry of Labour, but that their approach to the labour market in 97% of cases is exclusively through seasonal employment or public works. It is one model that has been fully used and that has not shown results because none of these Roma who go through a measure of public works finds another job, but returns to the center of social care. This poverty and its consequences are evident not only in Delnice, but also in Varazdinska, Koprivnica-križevska, Sisak-Moslavina, Brod-Posavia, Osijek-Baranja and other counties and Istria, both in Zagreb and in the Primorje-Gorski County where the standard of life is better than in the mentioned counties. Međimurje County too. The problem may be the most visible because of a large number of Roma. I'm not going to be long on social issues because it's all clear. But what I want to single out here and warn another colleague and government that an urgent need is to amend the Social Care Act and discriminatory provisions of the same one that does not only apply to Roma, which is to prevent users of guaranteed minimum fees not only to own a vehicle of value and several thousand kunas, but also not to drive a foreign vehicle. The law therefore states that if you receive a guaranteed minimum fee, you must not drive a car of your own, or anyone else's, you must not drive to a hospital with someone else's vehicle because it risks losing your right. It's something we need to change and expect as soon as possible. I won't explain these examples anymore, because I could have them by this time tomorrow. However, I must warn of one important thing when we talk about the National Strategy for Roma Integration as the most important strategic document for Roma in Croatia, the strategy has not been implemented for two years, or it has been implemented in part by the ministry which has not been fully restricted by the fact that the commission for its implementation has not been appointed and has not been operational for two years. The action plan for the implementation of the national strategy also does not exist at this time and then we rely on the government programme and the operational programme for the Roma national minority, and in this context we see some shifts and we hold talks. Since these talks, I have achieved my closest cooperation with Secretary of State Nikola Hungarian, who, along with his team, is doing everything possible to give the Central State Department for Reconstruction and Housing the opportunity to resuscitate the situation in a number of Roma settlements. Let's say the shares I mentioned. In short, for the most important strategic document of the Roma national minority there is no commission and action plan, and we are in the process of launching this process and in the following year we have to make a step forward otherwise it will really prove that all the strategic documents we have and that we bring are not worth anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54721	I would like to thank my colleague, Katazia, for this debate. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54722	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said that not much has changed, but in fact a few things have changed if you followed this report that you warned us about on page 37 and page 42, you have one formulation that is very questionable to me, so the nationality entered in the Matrix at birth should be able to change the team more because belonging to a particular nation is a subjective feeling of an individual, and the extracts from the State nuts in practice are one of the ways of proving nationality. So, at the birth of Roma, you use certain rights, of voting rights, employment benefits, etc. or advantages in employment and then subjectively you can say that you are not and then use some other rights. So this is very subjectively written. When you're talking about Roma rights, then you should talk about obligations. I remember you said here in the Parliament when it was about legalization that it wasn't possible to legalize several hundred objects because the Roma don't have certain money. Then you mentioned again a national strategy related to Roma inclusion, and a guaranteed minimum fee. The guaranteed minimum fee does not distinguish Roma as a national minority from any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. It's not true that he can't drive someone else's car, he can't own a vehicle and thus loses his right to a guaranteed minimum fee. That's one thing. Another thing I'd like to point out, you know you have good cooperation with both the Faculty of Philosophy and some schools and publishing. Although, for example, the attorney general also says in this report that certain funds are related to national minorities for publishing are cut off, i.e. they are smaller. And it doesn't mention the Roma national minority, but it does mention publishing for example, for example, the La voce House of the Newspaper. So we ourselves know that La fruit is part of the polo, using 2 million kunas only from that part, and from the Council for National Minorities 39 million kuna, it gets 2 million kunas. Those aren't small funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54723	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. My colleague Kajtazi's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54724	Thank you. Dear fellow, I'd prefer to speak to you tonight exactly what we've done to the Roma community. I think a report from the attorney general, on which we worked together on a tour of the field, etc. We've established an exact condition. How it is in the Roma community. They mentioned a lot of things, if I mentioned that two years of the Committee for the Monitoring of the National Action Plan, it was not established, it was not formed. I don't know how and how the Roma community can solve all its issues? When you listed the vehicle, I mean, I must first say I'm sorry because at the post where you were Deputy Minister of Demography, Social Policy and Youth, I'm sorry that you were short of able to get to know the complete Roma problem. I think if you stayed longer, you'd get to know a lot bigger and much better. Because you're not familiar with the terrain as things stand exactly with the vehicle and those who receive a guaranteed minimum fee. If we were to get to know each other better, I think we could talk a lot more and much better in that part, you might get to know you in one part, and in this other part, when it comes to the Roma community, because the police and the welfare centres, which is the worst thing in all of this, don't have the same criteria, like we live in ten countries, not in one country. Because social care centres, for example in Međimurje County, or in Vukovar-Srijemska or in the City of Zagreb, read the laws quite differently, thus interpreting the Roma community. That's why the Roma community is in some parts and getting hurt. And that's why I said a little while ago that I'm very sorry that you left, so you didn't get a chance to meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54725	I would like to thank my colleagues, Katazia, for your response. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54726	Thank you very much. Here's my esteemed colleague, Kajtazi, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's listening to a fellow Kajtazi who gave one of his references to this report from one prism and the rights of the Roma minority and their protection I certainly welcome all the efforts of the Ombudsman's mother-in-law in an effort to protect the rights of all national minorities in our country, especially in the part where those rights were violated by any state institution, whether they were discriminated against in any other way. But here you have referred to the question, the topic of strengthening and increasing the strengthening of extremism, referring to one area of our past. At the beginning, I say I condemn every extremism, left and right. However, through this report, the Ombudsman's staff is dominated by the so-called condemnation. Right extremism, while on the other hand it is derived from the negative context of left extremism, is extracted from the star of the five-point star, here practically through this report through the area described in this report that the questions therefore, the communication of stars are practically, should be 100 justifications for its existence, while the context, here is the greeting specifically "For Home Ready" puts itself exclusively in the context of '41. A year but not in the context of the Homeland War and '91. A year. As the five-point star that is justified here and symbolized both freedom and labour movement does not certainly have the same meaning in this context, as in the context of the '91 events. The year Vukovar was attacked and the Republic of Croatia was destroyed. So this second part, unfortunately, is not mentioned at all in this report, which confirms how subjective it is in itself. Therefore, it should be condemned, and I expected this report to condemn left extremism, which comes from extreme left-wing militants directed primarily towards the people of Evo and Croatia, who is a majority people according to the insult of the Catholic Church, according to the provocations towards our country, according to the removal of both the Chetnic graphite and other features of all totalitarian regimes towards our country, and in that sense I do not think this report is objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54727	Thank you, colleague Škorić, be careful on time, please answer, colleague Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54728	Thank you, dear colleague. I have to tell you, I don't know how much you've met, that the members of the Roma community have not been in any war running or challenging or involved, etc. That's one thing. The other thing I'm trying to say is, I'm very sorry about my fellow MPs, who never once mentioned the Roma as part of the Homeland War. Third, which I also want to tell you, which is that, in addition to all the situations that have been happening, the Roma community is very well aware of everything that is happening and everything that is happening. As I noted in my debate, that neither the association nor the representatives of the Roma once made public statements, but all this time they were somehow familiar, because in addition to all the problems that plague the Roma community, they do not have time to say so. But I got to tell you, other than that, they're really worried about everything that's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54729	I would like to thank my colleagues, Katazia, for your response. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54730	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney with the co-workers, the respected representatives of the ministry, has already been 11 hours and here, this debate is coming to an end. It should be said that the report by the Ombudsman for last year and the government's opinion in the same, are essentially not contradictory documents. Why? The goal is equal, I'll be very brief and I'll shorten the debate given this late hour, but I'll try to cover all the relevant facts. So the goal is to promote and protect human rights. And this government, by acting so far, has not gone contrary to this goal, according to the Attorney General herself. The government institutions are also working on the same goal, which is recognised at international level, which is witnessed by the recent election of Croatia to the UN Human Rights Council and also next year, Croatia holds the presidency of the Council of Europe, which will be a further possibility of promoting human rights. And it is also important to point out, although it has been mentioned once or twice, that the Croatian Ombudsman's Office has launched a three-year presidency of the European network of national human rights institutions, where they have been elected unanimously between 40 countries. And we heard that last week, the deputy attorney general began to chair the European network of equality bodies, which brings together 46 institutions. Otherwise, these are the 2 most important networks in the field of human rights and discrimination in Europe that work closely with the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. And it is not an irrelevant fact for Croatia and for us here, because Croatia and international stakeholders are. Referring to this report, the government notes that a number of areas have been assessed positively, while those perceived as problematic have also been highlighted in earlier reports. And just like in recent media reports... on the state of human rights in Croatia, while the Ombudsman, at the same time, underlines constructive co-operation with most of the ministries and efforts to adopt as much recommendations as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that human rights are a broad category and that they include the truly widest variety of society and people both as individuals and as a group. And that is why this report is, we may have heard this before from previous discussions, actually a report other than the deviations in Croatian society in the broadest sense, from the existential problems of citizens, social events, extraordinary, parliamentary sources, down from one year after the regular ones, which has caused some destabilision in society, to lack of dialogue, human rights violations, older and powerless, unemployed, children, persons deprived of freedom, patients. So the report covers all social phenomena and we can paintly say that the state of human rights in Croatia is actually through this report showing a blood count of society. There are too many elements, there are too few elements, we are weak somewhere, we are infected somewhere, but to say right away, as I said in the reply to the Ombudsman, it is not even a group of symptoms of which Croatian society suffers, it is the same in European countries. So the shades are different depending on some factors. Let's say the richer society, the easier it is to achieve wider human rights and that is the fact and we know that in such countries older people receiving pensions are not socially endangered as in Croatia, and in Croatia more than half a million pensioners with a pension of less than 2 thousand kuna and 94 thousand are seen, have a pension of less than 500 kuna, which means they do not have minimum conditions for a dignified life. So in more developed countries this species, this set of social rights has been resolved. However, some of our problems are identical with the more developed countries in terms of better financial conditions, so the Council of Europe points to a decline of confidence in the institutions of the Member States and the EU. And we know that this is also one of the facts, the more confidence falls in the political system, the growing the civil sector that sometimes works and the political sector and the growing the number of complaints to the attorney general, and then we get to this record of 86% increase compared to 2012. It should be said that the aim of this report is not to invoke anyone but to list problems and to offer direction for their resolution. And this is not about someone's impression, it's about data, and if we talk objectively, and we have to work all the time to see if, for example, children's human rights are at risk in Croatia, so they are. But also children's human rights are at risk in most European countries. They are threatened with the right to equal quality of school education, the right to a school meal if their parents cannot pay them, the right to the same conditions in rural and urban areas etc. But it doesn't stand as some colleagues said in a previous debate that isn't here right now, that nobody cares. That's just not true. Are the rights of the elderly and the powerless compromised? Well, yes, I've already mentioned that a large part of the pensioners have no conditions for a decent life. But what is constant and does not change so easily? Well, I know that hundreds of books of professional and unprofessional and also such articles, essays, scientific and extraordinary are written about the concept of human rights. And despite all the words, declarations, laws, and even decisions, and even the constitutions, we have witnessed daily violations of Malta not most of the provisions mentioned in these documents. And that does not only apply to Croatia. As it is in Croatia, so is Europe without talking about the world. And that is why I will point out that if, as I said before, we will single Croatia out as the place of the worst human rights violations or selective human rights approaches, then we will be wrong because such unobstructed speeches in public space, we are simply releasing a new basis for new hate speeches, for new antagonisms and ultimately for new human rights violations towards a group or individual. And it is clear that there must be no selective approach to the concept of human rights violations, but there must also be no selectivity in describing the phenomenon of society. There are always two sides to both conflict and human rights violations. The report is full of information on this, comprehensively and transparently. The Office is clearly obliged to submit it to the Assembly because it is the authority of the Assembly but, on the other hand, the Assembly as a legislative authority needs to find a way to work together with the executive solution to the problems presented in this report and to require the coordinated action of the institutions and better inter-resorial cooperation, strengthening inspection services and more. Because human rights are human rights and they do not depend on religion, ethnic or other belongings, and I hope that we will find ways by starting with us here that if already the Croatian Ombudsman's office presides over the European network, 40 countries then as little human rights violations as possible from Croatia and in that spirit we can accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54731	I thank my colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic for this debate. We move on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54732	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, attorney general, here I congratulate you all on being here in quite a number in these late hours. I'd like to say something about this report that I think is very important. This is where the attorney general comes before us with this report and content that presents a critical approach. A critical approach that is justified in the state of society, which determines the rights of ordinary people, about the rights of citizens, so a small one man, was also a question of protecting his right, whether it was the production of an individual right that operates the state mechanism. The lawyer, because of her tenacity, professionalism and expertise, and I also find it humane to be honest in the treatment of the problem that comes into the content of her report, deserves respect and she continues to work as well as Mr Malcic, who was her predecessor and raises it to a higher level. When I look at the report, I would then talk about a lot of things that have been touched in that report, but unfortunately I don't have enough time to talk about it and, for example, I could talk about the situation in the judiciary or the state of justice where it's justified and in fact rightly warns about the longevity, the unsustainability of proceedings both in the judiciary and in administrative matters, and what is really causing a number of human rights violations. I would point out here, or add, the free legal aid situation because we see that in 2016, the amount allocated for this purpose was reduced by the previous period, and that the number of legal aid providers fell from the previous period, which is actually a step backwards. We would like to be able to discuss and praise, in fact, that the system is getting better every year and in fact that it enables citizens of poorer property to have adequate access to the protection of their rights against courts and state bodies dealing with administrative matters. The report shows that the attorney general has a significant increase in the case compared to 2015. That's 16%, and even 86% compared to 2012. I don't think there's been any increase in the number of human rights violations at once, but I think it's more about the fact that citizens have come to their senses that they have this mechanism at their disposal, which means the ombudsman, the ombudsman they can address if they feel that human rights have been violated. So, in the very report on the subject, we have a lot. All my predecessors have chosen some topics that will highlight so I have chosen a few topics that I would talk about a little bit more, which I would point out, which I consider important. First these topics are a matter of discrimination. Therefore, the Ombudsman states in the report that there are 387 cases related to discrimination, that as much as 30% of complaints refer to the field of labour and employment, and the majority of these complaints are actually the cause of race, ethnicity, skin color or national origin. 387 items per year may not seem alarming, it does not seem to be a large number, but I think it is definitely just cases that have been reported, that there is still a phenomenon of transfiguration, non-logination, discrimination, or mistrust and fear of possible consequences in all minority groups, as well as in national minorities who, after they have actually felt discrimination on their skin, may be afraid of any additional negative consequences if they are discriminated and reported. Compared to the hate crime when we read the report, it is then noted that the Office of Human Rights, which is a point in contact with the European Union and which collects and sorts these items as delivered by the MUP, the judiciary and the DORH, does not have equal treatment, i.e. there is no common methodology, and then it is very important that this recommendation of the attorney general is accepted, i.e. to harmonise this protocol on the treatment of hate crimes cases so as to essentially know what these are causes, which are indeed stages and which are actually the motives of these hate crimes. As far as the rights of national minorities are concerned, I've done a lot of professional work with them, and I could really talk a lot about it. What I would like to emphasise, therefore, is all the rights of national minorities regulated in Croatia and brought by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it stems from laws passed by the Croatian Parliament or from international documents ratified by the Croatian Parliament. The most important laws that have been passed have been passed by consensus, so to the two-thirds majority. These rights have not been fully implemented in practice. I will only make an outstanding example of the registration of minority schools in Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County where responsibility is constantly transferred who will solve the problem, and this problem of registration of these schools has been going on since '99. And unfortunately, despite all the announcements made by the previous governments and the promise to the International Community, the problem has not been solved, although in fact, in fact, those schools are bilingual, their names would not change and I really don't see the problem of being formally implemented. What I would also like to highlight is the report and the issue of restoration and housing, care. So this is the 2016 report, we're in 2017. Refurbishment cases are still being resolved, and the deadline, therefore, is 30.9.2004. So, for 13 years, we don't have a new request, and unfortunately, we still have objects that solve for both the first and the second degree. When we look at housing, we have a good example, which is specifically stated in the report, which just warns of this long - term resolution of such items. In particular, here is an example where the request was submitted in 2001 and has been legally resolved at the second stage only in 2016. So, for 15 years, he was solved, where a party had legitimate expectations of being taken care of. Unfortunately, for 15 years, she waited to be rejected. Here, in fact, the state shows all its power, or powerlessness, in relation to its citizen as an individual. Compared to housing, I will especially apostrophe of former tenants who are also long waiting to resolve their status, or their demands. The government also concluded in 2006 a housing management programme for former tenants. The plan was to start with 2006, to finish it, to welcome 2012 without the subject. Unfortunately, that's not the case, and we have a situation where those who have, in fact, have the right to buy that they got apartments in residential care, that only 338 purchase contracts were actually concluded. I'm actually saying this in order to highlight these problems as highlighted by the attorney general that the state there needs to make an additional effort to make it right, especially when it comes to rebuilding. What the attorney general did not state in her report, and it is related to these, I would like to highlight the outstanding issue of damages to destroyed property by terrorist acts. So we have owners of mined houses outside the field of war that have not had the opportunity, the legal way to solve their question, or to get any kind of compensation, either through compensation, or through reconstruction. They've been in a legal vacuum since '96. By 2003, only 2003 was passed a law that regulated their rights. However, they were regulated in a way that they could not achieve it either through compensation or through reconstruction, all sued the state, were rejected and remained essentially paid high litigation costs. I think that the problem should also be talked about and that he would have to and could find his place in this report because the assessment is that there are about 1,000 such objects somewhere. For the end, or at the end, I would say something about access to electricity and water, something that everyone probably in this assembly as many of us as we are now taking for granted. I would like to highlight the programme of recovery, reconstruction, so one programme that the government adopted in the 2003 mandate, 2007. The programme is also not completed but has practically been terminated in 2011. We still have 80 settlements in 2016 that are without access to the low voltage network. I appeared here in this House on 10th of July this year, looking for a break to mark my birthday with my speech, so the day of the birth of Nikola Tesla and also to count some villages that still do not have electricity such as Suvaja, Glogova, Bruno, Deep Dol, Malovan, Parcic, Grulovic, Otišic, Cikot, Rogulj, so there are more. It's all villages, settlements, settlements where people live and still don't have electricity. This government has made a commitment to solve this problem. In this context, the government has adopted an operational programme that is actually the basis for solving, finally solving this problem but here we are still waiting now and for the first operational step in this direction and I really hope that in this mandate, I mean in the term of office of this government we will finally resolve it. Because it's hard to believe, here we are in the 21st century of 2017, now 2018, that there are villages and settlements where there is no electricity, and here's no water and in fact the everyday life of our citizens, our citizens, is like a story from ancient times because they don't have electricity and the only water is actually from the well. Astounding is the fact that in 2016 the only source of drinking water with 82 thousand inhabitants are actually their private wells and wells and we know in fact that the controls of the systemic, health and water are not available but it is therefore only implemented at the request of the owner or possibly if some projects on disposal and sewerage are implemented in such conditions do not actually make much sense and talk. I could also talk about road problems, public transport, going to the city doctor, access to public services, or public services that should be available equally to all our citizens. Unfortunately, that is not the case, I would agree with a colleague who spoke before me that this is actually a problem in other countries, but we have to warn what the problems are in our country. To conclude, I would like to point out that an important, public defender is an important institution, that the Constitution says that it is the author of the Croatian Assembly and this important job as a public defender, i.e. the attorney general, should continue to work, the report must be critical because in the legal theory, the Ombudsman immediately sees you as a kind of control, the government control of the state in relation to the treatment of its citizens. Therefore, the government and the state institutions should accept constructive criticism and recommendations and correct what is wrong, not because the attorney general is asking for it, but because our citizens are asking for it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54733	I thank my fellow Milosevic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54734	I thank you, dear colleague, just when you mentioned electricity and water you encouraged me to say something because considering that when it comes to electricity and Roma settlements in today's 21st century, the problem is one house if there is no electricity and imagine what a Roma settlement with no less than 1000 Roma without electricity and 21st century looks like. And also inside are children and adults, etc., should be informed, familiar with events. On the other hand, children should go to school, etc., and they are not ready and then we encourage them why they are not ready for school, why they have not done their homework, etc. On the other hand, when we talk about water, imagine by all the rivers that we have both Mura and Sava and Drava and all those other ones we don't have and we export water in Roma settlements and in settlements we don't have drinking water and 21st century. You can imagine what it looks like, not one Roma settlement but such settlements in the Republic of Croatia have more than 60 Roma settlements. It's unimaginable to me, I have to tell you that it's inconceivable to me that in the 21st century that we can't provide what's most minimal and that's electricity and water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54735	I would like to thank my colleagues, Katazia. Answer from fellow Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54736	Well, if you've listened to me carefully, I've listed in my speech, so I've just pointed out this power problem and access to electricity and water. I pointed out specifically for electricity that we have about 80 settlements according to our records. This information was updated in collaboration with UNDP and some associations, and we can also talk about a larger number of settlements, primarily about settlements inhabited by citizens of Serbian nationality, but there are also citizens of Croatian nationalities and Roma and others for Roma settlements, we have not done analyses and approaches, but these settlements I was talking about are therefore all settlements that had access to electricity before the war where we have now invested in a specific infrastructure in roads where the state restored their houses but unfortunately still a restored low voltage network. I am saying that I hope that this problem in the term of this Government will finally be resolved, the government adopted an operational programme in the 8th month, committed itself to resolving this issue, and now we are actually waiting for the start of the implementation or the first operational steps, and within this operational programme, I hope that it will come to order and Roma settlements not really because it is necessary for the Roma to be provided, but in fact it needs to ensure a decent life for all the citizens of the Republic, which means access and electricity and water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54737	I thank my fellow Milosevic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54738	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, esteemed attorney. Here's a little list of this document that you gave us so that every responsible authority that protects its citizens and works on the progress of society will seriously consider the recommendations. You here did not consider the recommendation but did not consider not accepting your report last year. It may be funny to you, to me personally it is not funny, and I think as I have already said, I will point out several times, that it would be moral for you to resign from your post after not accepting the report. I'll mention a few more things you've done to me, in my opinion, in a bad way. You have pointed out yourself a little while ago through your presentation "For Home Ready" that it is not at all a controversial greeting but that it is quite clearly illegal. I wouldn't go into the home-ready analysis at all, but I'm curious as to why you didn't look at other greetings of totalitarian regimes at any time, "Death Fascism, Freedom of the People", some other symbols, for example. A red five-pointed star, a colleague of mine talked about it here the same way. Why do you ignore the measures of the Council of Europe resolution, the EU that condemned the totalitarian regimes all and that communist. You never said anything about it, you caught up with only one totalitarian regime, fascist, with the right to understand, which should be condemned, all of us condemn, and some of the other totalitarian regimes under which the Croatian people moaned, you ignore them. I get the impression that you have these double standards, I don't know what reason, maybe you'll tell us eventually. There was an interesting case when a Croatian portal was quite clicked, talked about dead people live, about necrophilia, it was about St. Leopold Mandic, so it was reported to you, I don't know if you acted on it, whether you were manifested through the media, if you said anything about how a very influential Croatian medium might offend a large majority of Croatian citizens who pleaded as believers, as Catholics. That's 90% of Croatian citizens, like Catholics. It is 90% of Croatian citizens who have made such a statement, I have not heard anywhere that you have done anything in this field or even more that you have made a statement about it in the media. But contrary to that, when it came to Cyrillica in Vukovar, you are again, I have nothing against Cyrillic because the Cyrillic was actually the beginning of whether, but Vukovar is one place which is the place of special piety for the Croatian people and you have ignored that fact there and you have also spoken of it as if it were a matter of not knowing, not to say a comparison. So Vukovar is a hero city, a place of special piety for the Croatian people and you have to remember that when you were making statements and when you were talking about it, you were only together with Platform 112 and we know who it was, you were making statements that you were already making. I already said, so colleague Hajdukovic,... spoke of the Istanbul Convention, a referendum on marriage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's inadmissible that you, as a public defender, in a referendum of citizens who are legitimate, legal, legal and constitutional, that you take sides, that you say that something is discriminatory and it's not, that it's something good, that something bad that both the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges say is okay. That's not allowed. And after all these failures of yours and after assessing this House that has authorized you, you are the authority of this House to do bad work, that your report is not right, you are still here. Because I'll say it again, you've rated yourself a moment ago, and I'm estimating myself with a passing grade. And you tell Zekanovic and everyone else here whatever you want, I rated myself because I am above the Croatian Parliament and you MPs, you Hrvoje Zekanovic and your party HRAST, you are putting political pressure on me. But here I have to look back a little bit on my colleagues who also talked about the topic backwards. And who are you to colleague Hajdukovic, to determine what is backwards and what is advanced? I'm just thinking the opposite. The SDP, which is the successor of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, i.e. the Communist Party of Croatia, I do not think it is the other way around, I would never, in such a party, be the party who is the successor of a party that was in the totalitarian regime, under which the Croatian people groaned and you will tell one party who has emerged, grew up in a modern Croatian state that something is backwards. I think you're a little confused. And we will see one in a few decades that not only will the Croatian people but the general public opinion will think of the birth ideology that is very advanced for you and we will see that it is, time will show that it is very backward. And yet I'm going to say you're still constantly lying that there is no gender ideology in that Istanbul Convention, that it's about protecting women from violence and the opposite. So it's about the perfiduous service of gender ideology in Croatian society, but it's not about the protection of women. And as for the protection of women against violence, I believe, and all of you here have one consensus, we agree that these laws should be brought to such a level that women are adequately protected, that is, no one can think of being a bully. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54739	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for this debate. I would ask you to stay away from the personal calling of colleagues and colleagues and talk about the subject. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've already intervened in one part, but I would just, here's a reminder of our Rules of Procedure, Article 7, we're all here when we've become MPs, sworn, with the honor that we're going to be acting consciously, responsibly and in our work we'll stick to the Constitution and the law, etc., etc. Representative Zekanovic, at the time of the de facto denial of the Law on the Advocate General, who says that the report in this Croatian House can be adopted or not adopted, it simply does not bear any consensus. And I ask you to respect the law passed by this Croatian Parliament. I know you might like it or not like it, but that's the way it is. And while we are MPs, we must respect it, not do something and say something that is contrary to the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54741	I thank my colleague, Voter. I didn't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt, and I don't think that my colleague Zekanovic, you don't have the right to replication, has broken the law. He expressed his political stance and called for moral responsibility, i.e. to take some steps and steps on the basis of the non-acceptance of the report. Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54742	My colleague Zekanovic, you're back again, but here, I'm going to look back on this last, individual discussion of yours. Please state, that is, that you insist that the Advocate General should resign in your view, because she has a majority negative opinion, on the 2015 report, and is not supported. I absolutely disagree with you here, and I think that law on the Attorney General is only logical. And in order to follow this example as the Croatian Parliament, we should also be able to amend the Law on the Ombudsman for Gender Equality and the Law on Advocates, i.e. the Ombudsman for Children. Why? Because, as you might say, we don't have here what to agree or disagree with, support, or not support the report. You can rely here and express your frustration or dissatisfaction with the character and part of the lawyer. However, the report here is unfortunately a sad picture of Croatia. Now, you're representing her, we can deny her, we can't accept or what we've heard here that maybe we should do it, when we go around Europe, not exactly show things the way they are, but make it a little more beautiful so that we don't embarrass ourselves or we can look the truth in the eye and say it's not all so great and great. That we have big problems in protecting human rights and that we need to get the courage out of these problems. So, polymizing with facts and reports of what's written there, killing the owner is not a good idea. And not accepting the report, in my opinion, means not accepting the facts. And that's why I think that the Croatian Parliament should discuss all the reports of the Ombudsmans and learn lessons and work to correct shortcomings, but that none of them, that their fate should depend on voting precisely because we are pollemising the fact, and that doesn't make any sense, makes no sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54743	I thank my colleague, Glasovac, the answer, my colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54744	Dear colleagues, at no point did I say that the law is a controversial and truly law-abiding lawyer, and after not accepting the report, it can still remain on the job. So I didn't say it, I didn't think it, I won't say it. The law is what it is. So do I, like you, so we know that. Furthermore, the report has not only come to mind, but you yourself have said nicely, it is voted on, and the vote makes sense. So if it's a vote, so we're giving some sort of judgment on that report, and that report didn't fall from the sky, someone made it, someone answered for it. So if we voted and said the report was wrong, then someone needs to answer why the report is wrong. I'm curious about one more thing, and that's, would you be defending a lawyer like this if it wasn't for you who put her up there? So don't mention that the exact time of the SDP's government is being appointed the Ombudsman we're talking about today. That's right, and that's exactly the whole measure, that you chose her and that's why you're defending her. And that's why he talks and does what you think. And I finally have to say one more thing here. Yes, the report is what it is, we have 387 complaints, mostly, it's discrimination, is it? In my opinion, the situation in Croatia is not as bad as you want to present it. Just before my colleague Babić said nicely, we pump up numbers a little bit, we have one perpetrator for 15 discrimination, I would say, that in Croatia the situation is not ideal and will never be ideal, but it is far from catastrophic as you want to show it. Croatia is an orderly society that works whether you want it or not, or whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54745	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for this answer. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, the final word on behalf of the motionor. Ms. Laura Vidovic's attorney-general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54746	Thank you very much. I have decided to exercise my right to the final word because of all of you MPs and MPs who have stayed here all night thank you for that and for the representatives of the government and the ministries who have been here. But I have to tell you, both my colleague and colleague in my office, some of whom are probably still out there following this debate. Many have probably already left, but I will mention only some of the basic topics or highlights that or more have mentioned during the debate, or those who have left earlier, or I estimate that they may be more prominent. Mr. Bulj, agent Mr. Dark Taritash talked a lot about sustainable development, i.e. regional development and rural areas. I must say, of course, that not all the problems citizens face are the issue of different violations of their human rights, nor are they issues of economic and market development, for example. So, in that sense, I don't, of course, go into those subjects. However, as far as regional development is concerned in 2015, we went out on the ground more significantly, we talked to mayors, mayors, mayors, associations, welfare centres, development agencies, citizens. We have made 13 very specific recommendations aimed at preventing emigration as much as possible. Of course it's working, maybe I should have actually responded to Mr. Zekanovic's remarks. I can see he won't listen till the end. That's why, of course, I'm very sorry, but I can be in a hurry, and then what you said earlier. It would be a shame if you didn't have so much patience. My goal is not to be in the media. My goal is to make recommendations that will change the system. My goal is to establish cooperation with the authorities. I'm sure my work, the work of my associates and associates and the entire office is incomparably more public than it's ever been before. We have concrete data on that. But it's not the office's idea to be in the media. The idea of the office is that through the system it changes the system. Sometimes media pressure is welcome, but media are not part of the system, media cannot solve systemic problems. As for office data and our reputation abroad, Mr Babić, I am very proud of the reputation we have abroad and I can tell you that in both European and international circles, Croatia is doing only good. As many citizens as you said were impressed, I don't think they're impressed, but I would say how satisfied they are with the work of the office shows an increase in the number of cases and an increase in the number of complaints. I think it's a very precise and objective data and that number including this increase in the number of complaints on discrimination are due to both regional offices and field tours because we're going to Roma villages with boots on our feet to take complaints and not wait for them to come to us. In 2016 alone, we held over 1,000 civil servants to combat discrimination. So that's why we have an increased number of complaints and that's the information that tells us how many citizens believe us. If your impression is different it's your impression and the data doesn't confirm it in this case okay, but I heard you said it was about your impression. As far as the hate crime data is concerned, I know you've carefully read the report and I know you always do it from beginning to end. We provide the information provided by the competent institutions. First of all, we publish institutional data, then those who come from associations. They are different because they refer to different stages of the procedure. We explain the different methodology that the data shows you. They cannot compare with each other, and one big problem that we in Croatia have is the fact that it often does not lead systematically enough, I would say enough even smart and precise data that can be compared to the international, or European methodology. An example of this is free legal aid. Moreover, when we talk about harassment based on national origin, that is, ethnicity as a reason for the conduct of judicial proceedings. Only in hate crimes can we add that in 2016, a number of misdemeanor proceedings have been detected in order to harass the foundations of national origin, and these are the procedures that will be initiated by the police. Therefore, also the data of the competent state body, not just associations. Mr. Zekanovic, you don't have to wait very long. As for your calls to resign, I think your best answer is from Mr. Bunjac's Living Wall, and I don't think I have much more to talk about. Here's everything he said about what I thought. What I can point out is that the Law on the Ombudsman, including high standards, i.e. a very high demand for the possibility of resolving the Ombudsman, is in line with international and legal standards. It is precisely because of such a provision that since 2008, I have to say re-credited in 2013 after I became the attorney general has the status of an independent national human rights institution. As for the referendum on marriage, I think in one part you may have misremembered the time dynamics of the Constitutional Court decisions, the reactions from my office, the referendum itself and so on. But what I would point out to this occasion is the Constitutional Court's decision... in 2013 of 14 November, which explicitly states that the Constitutional Court considers it necessary to point out that the addition of the Constitution on marriage as a living community of men and women must not have any effect on further development of the legal frameworks of the extramarital and same-sex communities in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and human dignity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A quote from the Constitutional Court's decision. As far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, we make an explicit recommendation on this as an independent national body for the protection of human rights with status and that the Republic of Croatia has ratified the Istanbul Convention. I hope she'll be ratified soon. Just today, the European Parliament came up with a motion for a resolution to be voted on tomorrow, which it recommends in its content, asking Member States to speed up the ratification process of the Istanbul Convention, ratified by countries covering 75% of the EU population, including the EU itself, or the European Parliament, which signed it. If Croatia wants to be serious in the fight against domestic violence and violence against women, it will ratify this Convention because it gives concrete mechanisms of prevention and protection against domestic violence and violence against women. And in my opinion in public debate, public discourse is manipulated by the concept of gender. I would like to remind you that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of Discrimination on the basis of native identity and birth expression has already been banned. So this is already part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I think we will certainly agree that domestic violence is enough and too much in Croatia. I think it's one thing that you and I can certainly agree on, domestic violence is enough and too much. I've heard you say more than once that I've rated myself as a passing grade, that I'm putting myself above the Croatian Parliament, and that I'm assessing whatever else is saying that my report is great, I'm out of everybody tonight, I'd say everybody, but here's an correction if I'm wrong, the club representatives heard the support of this report. Almost everyone who said they support it, nobody said they didn't support it. I think this is the best answer to the report's assessment, although it is not a report on the work of the Ombudsman, it is a report on the state of human rights and the occurrence of discrimination in Croatia. But I must say, I am very proud of my work. I was at work this morning at half past nine, I don't know how you are, but you're both a colleague and a colleague who's really committed, professionally and hardworking all year round. As for the symbol of totalitarian regimes, the report is not subjective, it is firmly based on data. As for the greeting "For Home Ready", these are the data on the case law and the case law of the Constitutional Court that we had before, but here we have it several weeks back. As regards the greeting "Death Fascism, Freedom of the People", I ask you to read the report more carefully, specifically page 147, which states that for "Death of Fascism, Freedom of the People" we have no data and we have regular communication with the courts that deliver judgments on whether there have been judicial proceedings for the trial, so again those that the police will primarily prosecute under breaking orders as it does "For Home Ready". In 2008, the European Court of Human Rights said that it was allowed to express political views in light of the fact that mass killings and violations of human rights in communism discredited the red star, but pointed out that the star cannot be seen exclusively as a symbol of communist totalitarianism, page 147 of the report. Right on the next page, 148 of our actions that were followed in the media, I'm sorry you didn't notice about St. Leopold Mandic, who, in my opinion, spoke of it in a very offensive and inappropriate way. Here, I invite you to read page 148 of the report on which you can see more details on this subject. Mr. Milosevic has left, the damages to the illegally damaged houses by the launch of terrorist acts has so far been reported this year, indeed... We can see if we have enough data to get into the next one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm very sorry that he wasn't here when you Mr. Babic talked about hate crimes and data... I believe his answer and his replica would be much better there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, I would really like to thank the representatives of Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic for the presentation and conclusion that this is not about a report that is based on the impression but on the data. It is extremely important to me that this is something that can be recognised and the coordinated action of institutions, cooperation and constructive approach to the fact that human rights are not a matter of ideology but a matter of international law and international documents that we have accepted is extremely valuable. I am looking forward to this very constructive approach and cooperation in the following year. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54747	I thank the esteemed lawyer, Mrs. Lori Vidovic. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54748	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I didn't want much, even though I wanted to talk about some things that are related to this report and pensions and some things that aren't exactly the fact that they appear in this report, but they're not true that you're talking about pensions that were related to the area of the former Yugoslavia and in fact these same persons have some other pensions, foreign pensions that are not related to our pensions. It's also about social services and things like that. But you mentioned something about the EU Human Rights Office. I'll tell you one thing about Nils Muiznieks, who is EU Human Rights Commissioner What? [[Intruder: Council of Europe.]] The Council of Europe, that's right. [[Intruder: Council of Europe.]] And he was in one visit to the Republic of Croatia in 2016, I think at the beginning, and then we were preparing ourselves for discrimination especially for this National Roma Strategy in the ministry where I was working at the time. At 8:00, he had a plane and at 9:00, there was a report on his pages in Brussels. What am I trying to say? Certain things that happen in the Republic of Croatia go from certain, from certain, I will not say such a centre but, in fact, through the NGOs, exactly the way is known and in which Croatia is actually shown very negatively. So, as a country of discrimination, hate crimes, over-consumptions, so something ordinary citizens don't see. There are individual cases. I have no doubt about which one is also being warned. But to send one such picture of my own country I don't think it's good and that we should all work on it, both left and right, because it's important for us, because it actually welcomes us every time at any international seminars, symposiums, meetings, OSCs, the UN, in fact, to be such reports, is, in my opinion, a completely wrong picture of the Republic. That's what I was obliged to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54749	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Answer, no. Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr. Vidovic's attorney-in-law, Mrs. Vidovic, once again, with her co-workers, on the grounds. Also, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for participating in this debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54750	Report by the Advocate General for 2016, the applicant is the Ombudsman, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. This report shall be adopted by the Advocate General for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 98 votes in favour, 14 abstentions and 5 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54751	We move on to the following agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President for Gender Equality, Proposing Advocate for Gender Equality, pursuant to Article 2. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, I call on the Advocate General for Gender Equality, Mrs Višnja Ljubicic, to give us an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54752	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs, MPs. At the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament 11.10.2017 for the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Goran Selanec, whose decision to appoint the Deputy Advocate, was my deputy. Appointing that date has submitted its own request for the discharge of the duties of Deputy Advocate-General, before the expiry of the time on which it was appointed on the basis of Article 21. Gender equality laws. I accepted the request, I drawn up a proposal for a decision on the discharge of deputies, sent the Croatian Assembly a call for the provisions of Article 20(2) of the Law on Gender Equality, which determines that the Deputy Attorney General appoints or also resolves the Croatian Assembly, on the proposal of the Advocate General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54753	I thank Mrs. Ljubic for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? There's no one here. Okay. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. He's losing his right to debate and individual. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54754	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Prime Minister for Gender Equality, dear colleagues. This is where we heard about Mr Selanca's resolution, who was Deputy Advocate General for Gender Equality on his own request for the appointment of the Constitutional Judge and the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54755	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. You wouldn't happen to have the final word, would you? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. I would like to thank you for your participation in the debate, and we will continue today at 9.30 a.m. with the item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thanks again and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. Session interrupted at 12:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-25-0.u54756	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Advocate for Gender Equality. She is a lawyer for gender equality, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting in favour of the decision on the resolution of Goran Selanca, Deputy Advocate for Gender Equality. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 114 votes in favour, a decision on the resolution of Goran Selanec was taken, the post of deputy lawyer for gender equality in the text as proposed by the parent parliamentary committee. A few colleagues called for a break or a replica, I don't know. A colleague of Lovrinović's. Here you go.
