ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47479	He asked for the word Mr. Grmoy, I presume, for a break? ... No, they don't go first, they go first, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47480	Dear Vice President, I demand a break on behalf of the MOSTA Club on the fracture of the HDZ argument on the obstruction of the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47481	Are you ready to talk right now without a break? Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the same subject of the Commission's work, the Agrokor Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47483	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47484	Thank you very much. I'm looking for the same 10-minute break and I'm looking forward to it being behind Mr. Bačić for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47485	Wait, it's Mr. Bacic, Mr. Grmoya and Mr. Maras. Are we okay to go with that right now? ... Oh, no? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Stanku? Okay. Here you go. So 9.58, 10 and 8 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.08 HOURS]] Mr. Grmoya asked for a word after the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47487	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I came out a few days ago with a concrete and constructive proposal that broke all the HDZ argument so that the Parliamentary Investigation Commission could handle the ongoing investigation. So my proposal, since we did not elect the Vice-President of the Committee, is a mistake that was made here in the Croatian Parliament, therefore the Committee cannot work and our agreement was, was a colleague of Jelkovac who would speak after me, the agreement was to go before the Croatian Parliament again to choose the Vice-President of the Committee because we cannot choose the Vice-President between us at the Committee. This is an opportunity for us to reject, in addition to this amendment, the selection of the Vice-President of the Assembly Research Commission itself, an article concerning the quality of financial reports in the Agrokor concert, and we are therefore no longer in any conflict or conflict with this investigation that is currently being conducted. I've prepared a new draft decision. My colleagues are already here in the assembly signing, I will present this proposal today in the procedure, I expect President-in-Office of the Parliament to put this under emergency discussion and vote to elect the Vice-President of the Assembly's Investigative Commission but also to remove any arguments even though these arguments and that argument are hollow, HDZ, that we will be in line with the investigation that is under way. In addition, what happened last night was another fracture of HDZ's argument because all those who were suspected were released and released because essentially all evidence was in financial forensics, in financial reports and were released because there was no danger of any influence on any witnesses. So, colleagues from the HDZ, you're broken and you have no others now but to support this proposal, and that was our agreement to re-depute and vote on the decision of the Assembly Investigation Commission, we're going to elect the Vice-President of the Committee, the new one. Your proposal is for it to be the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Miljan Brkic, some agreement was that the Secretary of the Investigation Commission would be me, that HDZ would not have most of these functions as vice president and secretary, that was the deal, so we agreed but HDZ often knows what he agreed, to play. So if that's the case, my colleague Jelkovac, if that's the case, I've recorded this whole meeting that I've been on just so you don't do what you're going to do, I'm going to play you a recording of what you were saying, if you don't believe me, I have it on my cell phone. So there's no reason left for the Assembly Investigation Commission not to take up its work, I'm referring this to the procedure today, I expect support and SDP, but was supported by colleague Lovrinović, colleague Alexic, colleague of Hrelja, of course the parliamentary representatives of MOST. It's almost more of a draw from the Croatian public, it's almost more of a run from the Parliament's Investigative Commission, no longer an argument from the HDZ stands, I expect colleague Jelkovac to see what I've said here and simply vote a new decision and start working. The Croatian people expect the truth, the full truth about Agrokor, expects all the prime ministers, finance ministers, the heads of the Tax Administration, the heads of the HANFA, the heads of the CNB and to answer questions that bother the Croatian public. What I'm trying to say is, another column that came out of its villa with bandages in its hand in just 24 hours came back the same way to its fairies. How many such groups we have sent these years with a vow in hand to return, so they went to Remetinec and Prime Minister and Ministers and Assistants and State Secretary Sanader, Kalmeta, Livakovic, Bandic, Cehok, Mamic, so they all went and went the same way. My constructive proposal is what the Croatian public expects because there is no longer trust in the Croatian judiciary, that those who created Ivica Todorovic and such Agrokor come before the Parliamentary Investigation Commission and now that we have put HDZ in front of the wall with this proposal, it is all over now, all the arguments are hollow, all the colleagues from HDZ who have been trying to obstruct and perhaps even colleagues from the SDP did not have a serious intention, it is now over. Now you can all show whether you're for a parliamentary investigation committee or not. Answer today, the motion goes into procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47488	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47489	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear comrade Grmoya, here I am listening to you very carefully and I believe you will listen to me. I'm not afraid of you, pal, but here on the right, you've been yelling so hard. I think that, first of all, we as members of the Committee have agreed at that first working meeting that we will negotiate and we will all perform together in the same goal, and we will also perform in the media, but you don't stick to that agreement, and this whole time, you're playing your game through the media. So, as far as HDZ is concerned, as for my position as Secretary of the Commission, you know him very well, I haven't changed him since day one and neither has HDZ. As a lawyer, I'll say it one more time, Article 4. The Law on the Investigation Committees has made it very clear if a court case has been initiated on a matter whose research was previously established by the Research Commission, it will cease to work immediately. A '96 law. the year when the investigation was carried out by the court, analoguely, Article 17. The penal code today speaks about when criminal proceedings begin and says it begins with the power of a solution to conduct an investigation. I would like to say once again, that according to the law, it is very clear when we, as an investigative committee, should stop working. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. It was put into law, for the reason that the legislator felt it would not be good, not to say hygienicly that, at the same time as the length of the trial, the proceedings before the judicial authorities and the judicial authorities were conducted in parallel with another procedure, even if here in the Croatian Assembly by any investigative committee. Because that paralysis isn't good. This, in some ways, contaminants the area because in the same question, two proceedings cannot be conducted parallelly, so that, just a little bit, I have not been in your word, that there is no question of the regularity and legality of the conduct of the proceedings before the judicial authorities. So, I ask you, do you know and will you know what will be written in order to conduct an investigation. I don't know, maybe you do. Do you know whether the investigation will expand later or not? You don't know, same as I don't know. We can't function that way. It wouldn't be legal and it wouldn't be good. And that's what we tell the Croatian public all the time. You know the difference between you and me? You guys from the Bridge are populists, and we're legalists. That's the only difference. Do not shed unnecessary bile. You were talking about the proposal we had at the meeting. It was not an agreement, it was a proposal, to elect a colleague, Brkic, and the proposal was yours from the opposition that at that time, I would no longer be a secretary, but to be a secretary. So, in the end, we agreed that we as a committee couldn't decide, that clubs would agree on it, which they agreed on when they put the proposal to a decision. Therefore, I will conclude again for the sake of the truth HDZ is not afraid of anything, it has proved this by passing this law, and all we are looking at today is the consequence of what has been the move taken by the Croatian government. Because if it hadn't been for the entry into force of Lex Agrokor, the question is which scenario would we be looking at today and what issues would we be dealing with today. So don't keep blowing up the fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47490	Thank you, too. I've seen, we've got one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47491	Dear Vice President, Art. 238 violations of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Jelkovac, I would like to ask you when you speak here in front of the Croatian Parliament and the parliamentary representatives, to provide accurate information. It wasn't an opposition proposal for me to be the secretary, the opposition's proposal was to be the vice president of the committee, and then it was a compromise solution, because you didn't want me to be the vice president was to be your colleague, Millian Brkic, and I was the secretary. And that was the deal at our informal meeting. And to be such a suggestion. So the proposal was for me to be the vice president, not the secretary, and the compromise agreement was then for me to be the secretary, and for HDZ to be more of a vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47492	My colleague Bolmo and you and I both know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I let you speak. ... Mrs. Jelkovac has also requested a breach of her rules of procedure, and we hope this time there will be a breach of the rules of procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47493	I point out the violation of Rules of Procedure 238, I apologize. Because his colleague was false. To be honest, then, my colleague Grumoja, you've obviously only heard your suggestion. I made the first proposal and I suggested and you know very well what I proposed. Was there a proposal from you members of the opposition in the very commission in which it was discussed? We didn't make any arrangements, we said exactly what I said, that the clubs would agree on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47494	Thank you very much. You hear no one will ever be able to say I'm not tolerated. Because Article 28 says the Parliament can issue transcripts, tonnes on the course of work of the Assembly meetings with which the published material is delivered to the MPs on each topic of the agenda of the session taken care of by the Secretary of Parliament. So it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in either case or in another. And now Mr. Maras has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47495	Thank you very much, you've noticed the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so there are no tone records, only if a colleague thought of his colleague, Mr. Grmoy, since he was recording the committee's session in tone, so... Then it's not a breach of the rules of procedure, but I think it is. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47496	Okay, but I asked you to talk, because you asked for a break. Here you go. So let's keep working, as much as possible, on some basic procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I will immediately say that we absolutely agree with this, I think it's a matter of technique that there is no substantial and historical reason or idea that the colleagues of the Most found and solved, so that's a matter of technique that we should agree on, I hope that we will agree at the next vice president's vote to choose and move away this part that is covered by the DORH investigations. But what's more important is that even we don't even have to report to the Parliament on this issue anymore because Croatian citizens are aware of who's hiding, it's not hiding, who wants to, who doesn't want to. So here I am watching the media today, listening to the commentators, everyone's talking about HDZ hiding the truth, and he's not interested in the commission working. Yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic gave some idea that the debate was being held before another committee. I said it yesterday, I can say it again today, it is impossible for Mr Plenkovic to have the debate held at the HDZ presidency. Croatian citizens need to hear this debate and therefore we insist on the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Just as it is clear to all today in Croatia that political HDZ is like Agrokor. So when you look at only last name: Canjuga, Valentić, Marić, these are people from HDZ from the '90s on. So there is no PR action, an activity which the HDZ can hide from Croatian citizens and the awareness of Croatian citizens. And now I'm going to say one more thing that is indicative, we're asking Mr. Ramljak to announce how much he's paid for his old obligations to the media, to the media that they've had towards Agrokor's claims, and thus helped the government, through the media, do the PR action that's been going on these days. So here's exactly how much HANZA MEDA has paid old claims, I've got that information informally. I'm asking the question here where is Mr. Ramljak's right to pay off his old claims to the media without other suppliers waiting? Where's Mr. Ramljak coming from? Let everyone here hear it and let him give us an answer. Which is why the government is thus clearly buying media so that it can control what is published in the media. So a very simple question, let them publish this information today and let them tell us, and then let them pay all the other suppliers, and not ask them to give up 35, 50 or 65% of the old claims. So what is now happening in Croatia is that Agrokor unfortunately behaves in the way he has acted before, only now Agrokor as owners are managed by Martin Dalic and Ante Ramljak and Andrej Plenkovic. And now those foreign Croatian citizens have to hear it and we have to fight it here. As for the anxiety shown by HDZ, it was seen yesterday and in the statements by Minister Zdravko Maric, who no one in Croatia thinks should remain a minister except HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who announced a lawsuit against the advocate for the spoken word in the Assembly. And he said he'd think about it, that he'd think about it... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know something Boric throws in here. [[Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.]] Boric throws something, let him say [[Mr Maras, continue, do not respond.]] No, I don't care, it's certainly something that Boric says, tell Boric [[Do not respond, continue, do not ask.]] It must be something smart when Boric is in the game [[I'm sorry, I'll give you a warning. I'll give you a warning, I'm sorry.]] Please give me my time back. [[Intruder Radin: Continue Mr. Maras, speak to the public.]] Give me back half a minute, please, Mr. Vice President. [[To restore time, I am, I will restore time.]] So after this high-pitched raid by Boris, I must continue and say once again, that for the first time, a nervous minister, Maric, has been threatening the parliamentary advocate for a spoken word for a pay phone. [[Yes, go ahead, go ahead.]] It has never happened before, it just shows the anxiety of HDZ and Maric in this particular case and will not prevent us here from continuing to speak what is true and that it is unsustainable that a state secretary leaves the Ministry of Finance in Agroko and that in 4 years he returns from Agrokor for the Minister of Finance in the Croatian Government and says he knew nothing. And once again, the HANF warned in 2016 about the factoring problem in Croatian society with one company, you might think, you might think about which company the company is dealing with Scare, intimidate and sway us, gentlemen of the HDZ you won't. [[Here, Mr. Maras, you see up there, 27 seconds more I've told you. I haven't returned the time but I've given you more time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47498	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I still gave you a little more time. Mr. Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47500	Mr. Vice President, since you yourself have admitted that your colleague Maras has deconcentrated you, so let's help you conduct the session a little bit, in order to analyze the way the Rules of Procedure was conducted in the case of this which was now the SDP Club, asking for a break of 10 minutes, in order to calm down a little passion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47501	Yes, but not because of that, Mr. Bauk, but because you have the right to a 10 minute break, that's why you have five minutes' break as long as it's enough for such a subject in 10 and... You're asking for the board's opinion? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47502	By 10.50, we'll have enough to analyze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47503	Okay. Mr. Boric, go on. We've got two breaks, I'll give you five minutes to 10.54. Alexic, too, okay. It's 10:00.44. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.54 HOURS]] Mr. Bauk told me he was ready. Let's hear what they're gonna say. Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. In our opinion, Mr. Krsticevic, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, on the replica committee, has slightly abused the institute in two cases. One told him that he did not serve the army, which is incorrect, served the army on the Blackbeard and at Muzil, Pula. And secondly, he doesn't care about Croatia, if I'm okay with the Croatian Army, if I've interpreted it well. And that's how we think he hurt his rules of procedure. And I think your interpretation of Art. 238. It is the first time in that case that a representative of the Government cannot be raised by a breach of the Rules of Procedure if he does what the MPs would be very much responsible for. We will still not insist on this subject. So we just want to find out that it is and to be said that the minister has abused the reply institute, in our opinion, by demeaning the representative with inaccuracies. If you'd let him answer that, you'd probably care for those two minutes. And since you didn't do it, then there was this break. We had a need to say this we recommend to the presidents that, to the representatives of the proposings and to the representatives, Article 238 also applies. In the proper form, therefore, that what is not lawful to the representatives is not lawful to them either. And as far as we're concerned, we'd end this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47506	Thank you, too. What you said, now and the way you said it, is completely legitimate and fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for the things you've said, I'm going to read Article 238 one more time for the public. I'd like to apply it to the minister and the other officials, but I can't because he says so. During the debate, the representative must not talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion, speak without prior approval of the chairman, his attackers or otherwise interfere with the speaker, which we have here... Start talking about another topic, which was not the case if it came to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it has as much as we want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Disdain or insult the president or other MPs, that is the case. By acting out of the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, there is another way to disrupt the order of the session. Article 238. That other article I said, it doesn't apply at all. I just mean, I can't apply the articles the way I want to. I can apply the articles only in the way it says and that's the purpose of the story. You answered that question correctly. I gave you my word and I didn't take it from you. You even spoke shorter than you were right. So thank you for that. Mr. Boric also asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47507	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I want to tell you something that I've been looking at here since the beginning of this term, that it happens often, and here it wasn't or there was an opportunity, but we've been running away from it but we see that it just becomes a practice every day. There are MPs in the Assembly who abuse the fact that they are MPs. That they have the right to say, that when they speak to someone, that someone has the right to answer them even though they do not like what they are told in response or in replication, or in some other way, they immediately lift up the breach of the Rules of Procedure and want to end every debate in their own way. In this way, the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure has become some sort of reserve replica, and this suggests that we must, under emergency in this House, not only for the purposes of the Infringement of the Rules of Procedure but also for the purpose of the Interruption Institute, start to discuss amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which I know, is more or less well-determined. Why do we have to say that? Because really some MPs do it every day, all day long. They bulldoze other MPs here, in a way that they argue all day, and every time they let them say what they want, they come fresh somewhere in the afternoon, at 4 or 5 o'clock in the afternoon, immediately seek a break, they don't care what's on the agenda, they have to tell the Croatian people, they have certain activities during the day and they come here underestimating us all together as if the rest of us sitting here, we have no right to listen except for them. That's what happened today. We had a break, everyone said whatever he wanted to say. After the break, take another break. Because someone was offended by what someone said to him. If we're going to use that in the Croatian Parliament, in this House, then there's going to be a sweating where's the end of it? What's worse than that? Why don't you respect the chair of the session? As the chair of the session tells the representative to sit down or calm down or shut up, he continues to speak. He can't hear him at all. He acts like he's above the chairman. It was the vice president who was President of the Parliament, just not allowed to calm down. They're always right, like little kids if you take their toy. If it's not their way, we won't play. We'll leave the assembly. Well, that's not the job of a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I think that practice should come to an end. That the chairman should take the matter in a way that is said to be held in his own hands and lead the session in its proper manner. Because indeed all the other MPs feel less valuable in this assembly. A few MPs all day are raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure and looking for breaks. Just a few of them. Look at that, you'll see, here's almost a year. When we agree on the Committee that we will not come forward as individuals, you have abuse after that. Twitters are offered, Facebook status is offered, virtually some kind of trial is sought, virtual conversations. We listen to every day breaks, what the commission should do, etc. Well, here's the president of the commission, so let's call the meetings. We hear stories about the fact that it's always someone else's fault and it's actually the ones who say it. And what's the worst part? What we have for the first time is the fact that the opposition wants to lead this session, this Parliament, this government and this state. They determine when something will be on the agenda, what the debate will be, what will be discussed. If it's not theirs, you go ahead and leave the assembly. Well, I don't think we can agree to that kind of thing. We who have the experience of the government, from that former term of Milanovic's government, so we know how the Parliament was conducted. So you shouldn't have said one sentence, the view would have gotten a warning, a look. With a look, gentlemen dear. I think it's been a little too long for you in these few months and you've been playing needlessly, gentlemen. Lower your anxiety, you're not always right, and try to listen to what you're told. And respect most of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47508	Unfortunately, this Rules of Procedure does not overlook that when a representative of the Government, I do not speak in this case, I speak in general, when a representative of the Government represents something that the representative considers to be false, that the representative does not have the right to react. He's right about that, Mr. Bauk. This is the Rules of Procedure written by you and you. This part here has always been missing. I've been here long enough to know what's missing in the Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure must change immediately. That's the whole story. Mr. Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47509	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say a few words about the 7th item of today's agenda, because it will come at midnight. The president of the Croatian Parliament and the HDZ club were asked by debtors to move that point elsewhere, it was not heard. I asked the opposition not to make a play here, not to ask too many breaks, not to debate too much that this law that is very important for over a hundred thousand Croatian families, comes to the agenda before, but no one has listened to me, I am small, alone, a small dog, only big dogs have the right, small dogs have no rights. So, unfortunately that we are in such a situation, it is regrettable that we allow banks to drive Croatian citizens, that the law that matters to Croatian citizens is put on the agenda in the middle of the night, that we are slowly doing this job, that it is even later than it could be. I am very dissatisfied with this fact and invited Croatian citizens to follow what is happening in the Croatian Parliament and that the next time they decide who will represent them, they bear in mind that these people who are currently in the Croatian Parliament do not represent their interest. That's a fact. The interest of Croatian citizens is justice and justice. The interest of the Croatian Parliament is not justice and justice. The interest of the Croatian Parliament is performance. It's really over my head. I've been trying to be constructive all these years, I'm one of the few that's constructive. However, this play simply has no beginning and there is no end. So I have to do it again. The 2013 collective verdict ruled that banks were illegally increasing interest rates. It was also decided that banks should no longer behave that way. However, the banks continued to behave, the CNB did not prevent them from doing so, the executive authority did not prevent them from doing so, and one possibility to prevent them is that the legislative authority and the laws I proposed and which received 78 signatures of support. Both of the laws that I have proposed, which are now on the agenda as item 7, have been rejected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have been rejected from, now, this Consumer Protection Act, its amendments have been rejected by the Committee on Economy, which explains that another model is needed. Today I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Economy who were on the Committee on Law, what other model are they proposing? The economy's representative said only that they disagreed to be under the Consumer Protection Act but did not propose any other model. So, it is not about proposing another model or wanting another model but about not respecting justice and justice, that Croatian citizens will not get away with what banks are doing to them and that they continue to be led by banks in their driving of Croatian citizens, in other words, banks are being helped in crime. They're being helped by the government in crime. The CNB and the government are helping banks in crime called driving Croatian citizens through increased interest rates that have been increased in an illegal manner, which has been ruled by a collective court verdict. So, I don't speak from the belly, I speak on the basis of the River, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Well, thank you for your cooperation. Be that way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47510	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. And the last one will be Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with assistants, fellow MPs. He would agree with his colleague, Alexic, that today we have a very important topic and that we should, of course, put it in a time period when our citizens can watch the transfer. It is about banks and as he said, taking Croatian citizens and trying to stop them, preventing them, and this law of Homeland Security is very important when we have everything in Croatia except security. Today we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, it is a key problem, a demographic picture when we need to talk seriously about endangering the strategic resources of the Republic of Croatia. So let's just remember the reaction in Parliament when the energy lobbys start, how Deputy Prime Minister Dalic reacts, it's in the case of the Peruca thermal power plant that is harmful to our strategic, vital and most significant resource, it's drinking water. Drinking water on the river Cetina and the Peruch thermal power plant. To this day we have no answers, nor do we know what this is about, no matter what the whole of Dalmatia is at risk, and here we are talking about a very important law and finally, after 15 years of 20 we have a national security strategy and we are talking about Homeland Security. So what do we need Homeland Security if we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, if we've given the most significant resources like Cetina sources to someone for 5,000 kuna per month for the water charger, if we're threatened by Slavonia empty, if we're talking this way, then there's nothing from Croatia. You know what we can do? We can rent 2/3 of Croatia and come from all of us to Zagreb to live in this way when we act like this to watch Croatia fail. The fact is that we need to do everything and more seriously access these topics by believing that anyone else, mainly Minister Krsticevic or anyone who wants to be in Croatia or any of us, is empty of the Republic of Croatia. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Herzegovina's empty, laying where we're nearest is empty, it's empty. It's the strategically important Republic of Croatia. The survival of people, jobs. It's not just Agrokor's problem. The problems are also Brodosplit where it simply falls apart, where our most qualitative people go to other countries to work, Croatian workers are imported from other countries, meaning our most quality, most potential goes to other countries. Ireland, Germany. And not just individuals like that after World War II, husbands, but entire families. So we have a literally empty RH. The strategy of national security that has been passed and the law of Homeland Security is the concept of how to preserve people in that space. Who's going to be a fireman in person in a few years and in Slavonia? No one. There'll be a few soldiers, they'll have them in Vukovar, and that's it. Who's going to be the hand soldier? Voluntary or whatever? He'll be in Ireland. Well, people are leaving our systems and the military and the police because we need to work hard, a step more to make it possible for us to have any national security at all. And to talk about Homeland Security because the simple reactions in this House are amazing. Amazing, especially when it comes to strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. I cannot mention again the reaction of Vice President Dalic, who I did not even ask about the Peru thermal power plant, but I asked the prime minister what a bitter reaction it was that you could not believe. That she literally remembered her grandfather's, that we should now empty Lake Peru and restore her grandfather's. So I have a grandfather too, we all have a grandfather but we can't let Europe's largest drinking water pool go by in that way and let the President of the Parliament react in that way and let the story go the other way in this House, that the MPs sometimes need to be warned, but we are the ones the people chose and that we should protect only the people who chose us. It's our strategic, it's our duty to fight strategically for the survival of our people in those areas. I am sorry that my Dalmatian Zagora is empty and I hope that the people will understand that the only struggle and survival in these areas can keep the Croatian people alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47512	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47785	His hand was raised by a respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47786	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club about the Upper Horizon project, I can do it right now, no need for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47787	No, no, we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. So I'll see you in 18.15 minutes. SURPRISE IN 18.05 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47788	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.10, HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Stanku requested a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47789	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I called for a break for the Upper Horizon project that continues in Republika Srpska. Protests against the project began in 2005. They were led by a “Beautiful Ours” association led by a Vukovar woman who lives in the plates of Ana Musa. And this association has done everything to save the lower Neretva flow from the Republika Srpska Upper Horizon project. This initiative was joined by me personally, but the current secretary of state at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, energy Mario Šiljeg and we had a press conference, although here I am now MOST, on the HDZ we warned in 2012, and had a big protest in Metkovic where 1,000 people gathered. What is probably clear now and what experts warn about is that the project has increased the salinity of the river Neretva in the area of Opuzen, Metkovic, now Bosnia and Herzegovina, means in the area of the municipality of Capljina. A lower stream of sweet water is expected in the coming time, and thus the breakthrough of the sea even deeper towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is because the water that used to come to Neretva, to Bun, is now being rerouted to various channels. The plan is to build the Dabar hydropower plant. This is part of the project The Upper Horizons have already completed and because of this project, this area of the lower Neretva flow has run out of about 4 billion square meters of water. And if this project is completed completely, we're going to run out of two billion square feet of fresh water. Those are catastrophic numbers. But it's not just the problem that we've been left with, so no water coming through Neretva, but the problem is that we've run out of these let's say the sources that we had on the left side of Neretva, and that's how salt and salt penetrates faster, and it's sending the country, which, of course, threatens agriculture. Now the last measurement was in the Gnište. It's the municipality of Chaplin. The measure is the electrical conductivity of water and they show extreme levels of 3.5 and the acceptable level is 1 which shows that the figures are getting worse and worse. Of course, the plan is this irrigation project, meaning the area in Neretva and the construction of the dam in Komin. There we were, like the town of Metkovic, fighting, that if the dam is already being built in Komin, then at least to build a 60 m translator so that Metkovic would not lose the port because we have more and more frequent and development of tourism and the arrival of mini cruisers in Metkovic. It wouldn't be good if we lost it. I think it is now finally that our arguments that they are accepted in Croatian waters. However, what Croatia needs to do and what international conventions allow it to do, it is the ESPO Convention and the Archhish Convention, that Republika Srpska must build such energy facilities, so when assessing environmental impacts it must take into account what influences it will have on the Republic of Croatia. They do not care at all about these warnings that come from the Croatian side, but also from Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, means in the area of the municipality of Capljina, the municipality of Stolac and all those who warn. So Republika Srpska seems to be acting the way it wants. I was hoping that here we have a secretary of state who is well aware of the problems. Then we also had a minister who felt the protection of Slaven Dobrovic's environment. They have worked on this, but obviously without any international pressure, or foreign-political pressure, there will be nothing to fight this harmful project. I expect it because he warned among others, I found it now I've been looking at the articles in 2014. Branko Bacic, on behalf of the HDZ club, warned Milanovic's government at the time, to use the instruments of the ESPO Convention and the Archus Convention and press, means Republika Srpska, but nothing happened. And this is how I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs to take action and try to stop the further construction of this project, to make environmental assessments on the Republic of Croatia and to protect our valley of Neretva, our agriculture, and besides to protect our Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose agriculture is also threatened by this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u47790	I would like to thank Mr. Grumoja for the reason of the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53441	Good afternoon, everyone. Today is the turn: - Final proposal of the Law on the Homeland Security System, second reading, P.Z. No. 149. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall be amended when discussing this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Secretary of Defense, please. ... And no one's raised a hand yet. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Listen, you can look for a break any time you want. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Minister. ... You didn't ask. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you can, but when it's over, I've already given my word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53442	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. After this House adopted its proposal on the Homeland Security System Act on 30 June 2017 with 107 votes for, 12 abstentions, 1 against. The government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared a final proposal for this law to be discussed today. The proposals, remarks and opinions you made in the debate in the first reading were accepted and properly incorporated into the final draft of the law. We're aware of how the security paradigm has changed. As we once faced conventional military threats to state sovereignty and territorial integrity today, threats and threats such as terrorism, economic crisis, illegal migration, climate change and associated major disasters, cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, hybrid action. We are aware that safety is above all and the process, the process of finding answers, the solution to security risks management to achieve the desired state of security. This process of preservation and construction, strengthening national security, is not a process that can take place in song. He must be directed and managed. The security environment doesn't change a word, but it certainly does. It changes quickly, often unpredictablely or severely predictablely. But we must be prepared and able to achieve national interests in conditions when they are threatened. We ourselves witnessed these changes in that security paradigm for example of floods and fires. This year when we were asked to synergy, binding abilities, timing and speed of reaction. These disasters have shown how important safety as a state is but as a process complex and how much systemicity is needed in approach to security issues, in particular with the highest level of management at which the framework for the functioning of the system is created. I want to thank our firefighters, the State Protection and Rescue Authority, Croatian soldiers, police officers, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Cross, locals, the local community on fire-fighting engagement, flood defense. It's the synergy and the system we want. Despite the significant structural and security changes that we have been through and which have an impact on our country and society, we have not changed our national security model established since 2002. That is why this government has made an analysis of the current state of the national security system where we have recognised the need to redefine this security system and we have joined the creation of a National Security Strategy as a basic, strategic, starting document. In response to the new security threats, threats and risks, we have recognised a safety partnership resulting from a system of homeland security that rests on the principles of respect for human rights, human security or the safety of individuals of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, solidarity, tolerance, dialogue. This law introduces a new security paradigm based on a safety partnership, on a model of human safety or individual safety, of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The aim of this law is to establish an effective Homeland Security system in response to modern threats and risks. The mission or purpose of the existence of the system is to build a secure environment and to protect, promote national interests of the Republic of Croatia by taking care of the protection of people, infrastructure, economy, natural resources and all as a premise of the overall economic development of Croatia and the well-being of all citizens. The vision is a picture of the tangible and realistic future we intend to achieve is a unique functional and organisationally clearly defined system of Homeland Security where all components will be complementary and in the phase of preparing the tasks in the function of strengthening national security and effective security risk management. The establishment and development of the Homeland Security System is one of the strategic objectives defined in the new National Security Strategy, which we have built after 15 years and which the Croatian Parliament adopted on 14 July 2017, with the great majority of the support of you MPs, MPs and thank you for that. The strategic objectives are also defined as achieving the highest degree of safety of the population, critical infrastructure and developing and maintaining strong and active defence. The first step in achieving the objective of developing the Homeland Security System is to pass laws that nominally and formally establish this system. The establishment of the Homeland Security System must ensure the conditions for a harmonised, coordinated management of safety risks from the identification of threats and risk assessment until measures and activities are taken to remove or reduce risks to an acceptable measure. Accordingly, the Republic of Croatia will develop a modern, comprehensive, rational and effective Homeland Security system that will suit both our traditions and needs. The Homeland Security System must also enable the establishment of an effective function of crisis management, and this is a priority. In the development of this system, as is also very important, we are not going from zero but from the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there are bodies that are based on the function of carrying out activities and tasks from the security risk management process of importance for national security and police and defence systems and fire departments, and mountain rescue and security-intelligence systems and civil protection systems and agencies and institutes and bodies of the state administration. However, it cannot be said that these bodies form one organised system and, in particular, not that all bodies that can and must be supported in the process of continuing strengthening national security are properly involved in such a system. We were talking about the national security system but he was not defined by any document nor normative as a system. Neither were certain parts of that system. It's the police, the military, the mountain service, etc. The proposed law defines that the Homeland Security system constitutes under one, the central authorities of the state administration responsible for internal affairs, defence, external affairs, civil protection, environmental protection, health care, finance, the judiciary including the bodies of their work, and the bodies of the security and intelligence system. Under two, the central authorities of the state administration which have critical infrastructures in their own part, including the bodies of their part-round that participate or may participate in the activities of the security risk management process. And three, other central authorities of the state administration within the Homeland Security system can be engaged legal persons particularly important for the defence, defense attorneys' association from the Homeland War. For example, we have seen these fires specifically around Split, there was also an association of the 4th Guard Brigade or an example of the fire around Drniš, Promine, there was also a unit, or association of 142 brigades. This is the value of the Homeland Security System, to allow defense organisations to be involved in the process. Then there are citizens' associations, we saw the same thing as the fires around Split, it was Torcida or some other association of citizens means, the system allows, it is a safety partnership that can also be included by citizens. We saw, people helped, defended their home, house and system, and allowed them to be in that concept, in that safety partnership. Clearly, the state has the greatest responsibility but the system allows everyone to help in this situation and this is the support to the Homeland Security System to carry out tasks, to manage security risks of importance for national security and thus to strengthen national security through the safety partnership, which is the interest of all individuals to the state and society. The Homeland Security System Act allows for the elements of a fragmented system that is not formally regulated system to be focused primarily on threats to the gout, to develop a comprehensive system aimed at managing security risks. This law allows for an appropriate contribution from the public and private sectors because we have a lot of security in the private sector, we also go and include these capabilities, and civil society in protecting and strengthening national security at all levels. This law defines a framework for the development of this system. The proposed law does not involve new administrative structures, sudden radical changes, which could disrupt the functioning of what we have, as well as an increase in budgetary resources. The law opens up the possibility of a systematic coherent approach to development, existing and new non-existent abilities and their rational and efficient use. The laws only open up the possibility, but commits to the launch of the process, which will contribute to the construction and strengthening of such a system. However, a system that will be functional, efficient and rational cannot be created by one act, but such a system should be continuously developed. The establishment of a home security system is a permanent, dynamic process, whose dynamics will be aligned with changes in the security environment and the needs of national interest. And this law is the first time we've created a framework for its normisation and procedure. The law is only the first step in the process, the development of a system that will be the bearer of national security concerns. The work and full establishment of a system which is explicitly initiated by the law will certainly point to everything that needs to be upgraded in the system, which needs to be more precisely defined or complemented in the existing regulation. This must be done gradually or in a way that will at no time affect the state of security. The National Security Council shall be defined by the central body of the Homeland Security System. So, a body that is not only responsible for directing the work of a secure intelligence system, but also a home security system. The system that promotes the security partnership and what is most important, synergy, unity of all capabilities of the state and society. The proposed law establishes coordination for the home security system, as an inter-resor body which has the competence to coordinate work and to coordinate the development of the ability of the home security system. It is a body which, according to its composition, is competent to strike a balance between the need to develop the necessary abilities and in the bodies and systems of homeland security and the budgetary resources available for those purposes. Resources must be shared. Until now, it has not been defined who is responsible or responsible for launching the design or updating of the national security strategy. That's why we haven't had a national security strategy in 15 years. Now this law sets out exactly who is just responsible for the launch, the development of a national security strategy, i.e. the modernisation of the national security strategy. This law stipulates that coordination for the home security system has this obligation in line with the changed security context, external and internal contamination, and the establishment and obligation to coordinate the implementation of the process, to continuously update the national security risk assessment. It's a very important thing for us that every three months we can just do estimates and ranking these national security risks. And setting priorities in treatment. The co-ordinations for the Homeland Security System harmonize the implementation of guidelines, decisions and conclusions, the National Security Council, and propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the holder of direction making, his work. Because so far we have held meetings of the National Security Council, we have had certain conclusions of this central largest body, however, it has not been operationally defined, who is responsible, or who will coordinate, the implementation of these guidelines of the National Security Council. Then, what's very important, there's work to make standard operating procedure. We need to make, develop, standard operational procedures for every situation, crisis, so we can perform. And what's very important is what this country has to do, it's this crisis management manual. That we know the command line, that we know the procedures, that we know the elements of the system that react in these situations. And what we want next year, we want to do the first exercise of the Homeland Security System, we want to test the system and build it up through these exercises and make it better. The proposed law for the first time regulated that, in the event of a crisis situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was authorised to re-allocate financial resources in the state budget. We had an example of Gunja, you need funds, but you have no way of getting those funds without rebalancing and sometimes you can't wait. The proposed law cannot give an individual solution to any possible situation, but it is the first and necessary step that we take by adopting it. That we directly approach the implementation of one of the objectives of the national security strategy. And we will, in particular, provide support and the achievement of most of the other objectives defined by the strategies. The Homeland Security System must enable the finding of an appropriate optimal way of treating any security risk of importance for national security, both by removing threats and threats, and by reducing the adverse consequences of the action of threats or threats. The Republic of Croatia has resources and capabilities capable of managing security risks. But it also has to develop abilities it doesn't have. We need the ability, here's an example of drones, we need drone skills, we need prevention capabilities, we need the ability to collect all that information, to predict, and this is exactly the system of homeland security that allows it. However, it is primarily necessary to build a system, which is a challenge and perspective. The adoption of this law is only the first step on this path, and the establishment of a system will be a process that will last and in which all the components of this system can and must contribute to its construction. The development of this system is not and must not be its own purpose. The added value of investment in this system must be the development and prosperity of state and society from all aspects, economic demographic, educational, cultural, ecological, i.e. As I pointed out at the outset, national security and economic security must go hand in hand. It is now the development of the ability to manage effectively in crisis situations as one of the priority tasks whose realization begins after the adoption of this law. Recent experiences of responsibility for major accidents, disasters, social processes, floods, fire, a refugee wave that fortunately did not have the potential to cause a crisis that would endanger national security clearly points to the need for a normative regulation of crisis management. Safe Croatia is a prerequisite for the development of the economy and a stronger economy will enable more investment and will again act directly to strengthen security. So when we talk about strengthening security, we talk about developing a system of homeland security that we can't double our capacities. For example, here are the ships, we have a few ships in the Navy, a little bit in the coast guard, a little in the police, a little in the port captain's office. I think we have to tie it all together, the budgets are small, it's going to be smaller, so we have to make sure it doesn't get to double capacity. To have the capacity we need to use effectively, to combine these resources so that we can handle it. What is very important is that each kuna invested in safety must be well, well measured and justified, must be invested wherever possible in domestic production, in job creation and must be meaningful. We therefore need a system of homeland security within which to take care of why, where and how the ability and resources will be developed in order to result in the effect that every Croatian man will be able to feel and assess as a contribution to his well-being. As during the Homeland War, we achieved synergy and integration, unity of all abilities and societies and countries needed to defend the homeland and liberate its areas. Such synergy, the integration of the ability of the body involved in the security risk management process, we need them now. We have seen now, for example, fires and floods and in Croatia, not without synergy, no theory. No synergy, no military, no police, no fire, no locals, no mountain service, no municipalities, no cities, no county, no state. None of today's threats, the risk without that synergy cannot be solved. You see other countries have problems, Portugal, the United States, etc. And that is why we need this system, this synergy, the development of the homeland, the people and the state. That's why it's called the Homeland Security System. The country's war is the cornerstone of the modern Croatian state. At the values of the Homeland War, national pride, synergy, we want to build a system of homeland security for the future. The security system we are developing will guarantee all of our citizens that at any time the Republic of Croatia can react firmly, strongly and strongly and respond to any threat, threat or challenge to national security. And finally, as I mentioned the synergy that we achieved in the Homeland War, the synergy we want to achieve by establishing this system, let's show consensus in the adoption of this law, because the issue of national security is and should be a superseded issue. Dear ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you support the Final Proposal for a Code on the Homeland Security System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53443	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Now the replicas are coming to the minister's presentation, so it's your turn again, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53445	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I have listened carefully to your debate and we are all in the best interest of the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of our country, and we cannot have anything against it. You said what I support in having resources and capabilities to prevent threats and crisis situations, which also pleases me. And that's why I would ask you here and ask you, I'm one of those, unfortunately in the public opinion of the consensus on the purchase of fighter aircraft, I'm a representative and politician against that purchase of aircraft and the Croatian public must know that because I think that the priority of the Republic is investing in education and in our people in schools, primary, secondary schools and colleges. And I think national security, Homeland security, can be achieved much more by investing in people who work in that system. In particular, the purchase of a fighter aircraft would mean an annual increase of only one, a thousand kuna on the salary of each of our teachers and teachers. So when you see one F16 Gripen or this slightly cheaper South Korean plane imagine, 50 thousand of our teachers and teachers who could get one year's salary every month for only one of those planes. And that's a priority to me. It is my priority to invest in education until we reach the standard of people in primary and secondary schools. There's no point in getting fighter planes. Fifty thousand people can be identified with one F16. Please don't do this, we have to invest first in education, and after that, if we ever have money, we can buy a combat squadron. The squadron of our planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53446	Thank you very much. Minister Krsticevic will respond immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53447	Dear colleague and representative Maras, I'm glad that you've made your point and that your position on combat aviation is that you don't want it, that's clear to me. I'm glad in front of the entire Croatian public that you said that. You don't want a military deadline, you didn't serve. So that's your point of view and that's your right. And that's your relationship as a representative to Croatia. As for what you said, education, so clearly that education is important, crucial. And I'm sure it's a priority. As far as people or Croatian soldiers are concerned, they are the most valuable. That's why this year is a year of soldiers, officers and officers. And I'm sure as hell making sure we fix the living conditions of our soldiers, officers, officers in the military. We are making sure that the standard of our soldiers, officers and officers, we have evened out the diet and a lot of these projects that we have made for the benefit of Croatian soldiers' dignity. And we'll take care of it. However, we must not forget the '90s. You know the '90s. When Croatia was disarmed, you see these other countries, neighbors get it. We don't want to race anyone, but this is our relationship to future generations. Because once we run out of abilities, we'll never have it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53448	Thank you. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53449	238, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53450	Excuse me, just give me a moment to answer. Article 238 refers to MPs but not to applicants. So I'd like you to sit down and move on. Here you go, Mr. Glasnović. [[Intruder Maras: No, not just a little, but you didn't give me another article.]] [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Article 238 applies, the representative may not, and everything we may not, Mr Krstičević is not a representative during the ……]] [[Mr. Vice President, can I explain?]] [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I won't allow it. I won't allow it. Mr. Glasnović, please.]] [[No, I won't sit down. And what are you gonna tell me to sit down?]] Turn it off, please, Mr. Maras, turn it off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53451	Dear Ministers and Honorable Ministers of Parliament, Vice-President of Parliament, in fact, I would say primarily and commend this team working on this draft of national security that the work was inclusive, no one was excluded, and the first question I see is that combat tribes are involved. Long, long after the war I see this infantry, artillery and it's the beginning although it's not perfect yet, the lessons are not yet taught as they should but it's going slowly. Short questions. Drafting active reserves, when can we expect this proposal to be completed? Secondly, we know that there is no ammunition factory in Croatia, it is the cancer of Croatia in terms of national security. The nearest facility is... Third question, is Croatia ready for the fourth industrial revolution? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that undertone, that's what I'm curious about, we're entering a new era, recycling, artificial intelligence, etc.? In the end, I would say if we needed help from our government people to work, I would ask the team to help the government, teach them what centralised planning is and what priority is. Corruption is the cancer of Croatia and why we have so many princes today, Agrokor is just one example of this creative accounting and it has to be solved because I think we need to concentrate more on internal threats. In the end, I said it was inclusive, everything is, in my opinion, well done, one small flaw. I'd be involved in making those national security strategies, psychologists, sociologists who might be able to help some of them here deal with that mental set. You have a book of homos... And there's a homo jugoslavensis that thinks we're still in the former state and you can also help them get rid of those shackles, the mental set of Yugoslavia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53452	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Maras has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53453	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured in the section that Mr. Minister was telling a lie. The Rules of Procedure have been injured, sir. [[/Intruder Radin: Which article?]] You're the chairman. [[Intruder Radin: No, you can't do that, you have to say article.]] If you'd like, it's session chairmanship. [[Intruder Radin: But you must say an article.]] Mr. Vice President, so you're chairing the session. [[/Intruder Radin: Which article?]] 229, you're in charge as chairman. [[Listen, I won't argue with you, or tell me which article or sit down.]] 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235, 235.../The speakers speak at the same time, not understood. [[/Intruder Radin: Which one? Which one? What article?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53454	The session of the Parliament is chaired by the President of the Parliament, when he is absent or prevented from sitting, is chaired by one of the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, it is an art. 229. The meetings as guests can be attended by all those invited by the President of the Parliament. At the session, a foreign statesman can give a speech as a guest at the invitation of the President of the Parliament. You have a warning. No more, no more, it's not a circus, I'm sorry, Mr. Sagar. Here you go. ... You have no right, Mr. Sagar, no, it's not a circus. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53455	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, here you are in preparation for this law that you are a soldier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53456	I'm sorry, before Mr. Sagar, he kicked me out of the beat a little Mr. Maras, you want an answer to that. No, I don't. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53457	So now I'm a little out of touch. What I'm saying is, you're a soldier and you've prepared this law militaryly, precisely and exactly what's the essence of this law and what I think is really important is the coordination of all bodies, all those who participate, all the factors that affect the home security system. What I resent in some way in this law is that I am aware of the levels you speak when we talk about coordination for the Homeland Security System. Article 12 It is stated who is doing everything, who is doing this coordination. It seems somewhat unusual to me that in this coordination, at least in paragraph 2 where it is said where appropriate, the leaders of local self-government and regional self-government units should not be invited. Because here we can see, if we want to, and in Barcelona's experience, what can happen when things are escalating, so I can't stop them. So, I think it would be in that Art. 2. We were supposed to be head of the local self-government unit and to say it in a picturesque way, we have 555 or 556 local sheriffs, you know, it's an army of people. That's what you should think about when it comes to the Homeland Security system. And what I was saying, when we talked about strategy and then I warned you, I wish it was in the law, that there was an explicit word of fire. Because of tradition, because of everything that the Croatian people do. And at the end of the day, and because of the past events that have been happening. I am aware that they are in the civil protection system, but their guidance, especially in the law, if it is not already in the strategy would be of paramount importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53458	Thank you, too. In the name of the club, he asked for Mr. Bauk, but sooner we'll just give a reply to Mr. Minister and then you'll say on behalf of the club what you want. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53459	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Sagar, this is about the fire department that we're going to include. So through the amendment, I think that the fire department is very important, clearly that it is within the framework of the state administration and the protection of rescue and civil protection, but precisely for the sake of this system, which is very important and we will include it as well. As regards your observations, that coordination is here and in coordination in Article 12, meaning in the coordination for the home security system, the heads and other central authorities of the Member State of the administration of the article may be involved, if necessary... Points 2 and 3 of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it allows us to include clearly in this system and others, clearly, without synergy with the local exactly, certainly, and we have seen this throughout the summer that very difficult to deal with. Therefore, the local community is also a partner in the section. So the Homeland Security system, so it's going to be on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53460	Thank you very much. We have now continued with the replicas, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the minister and associates. Mr. Minister, you've said several times in your presentation that this law establishes a system of homeland security. My question is whether Croatia has had a security system so far, whether we add native or national to it, as anyone prefers and loves, or does not have such a system. And the second question you also said several times, that this law, i.e. the implementation of this law, will not require additional funds in the budget. That's what the law says. So I'd like to ask you one more time to tell me if she will or won't. In particular, taking into account Article 8(1), which says that funds in the state budget will be provided for the implementation of the law. That's what's true now. Apparently, there's one contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53463	Mr. Secretary, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53464	Dear fellow Klisovic, regarding this question of yours, did we have a security system so clearly that we had, as I said in my speech, we built a security system already in the Homeland War. On that system, we first defended ourselves, and then we got rid of it. And that's where I said, we're not going from scratch. So all that's good, and there's a lot of good things in our system, there's a lot of good abilities, all that works. And you saw how I reacted. However, it is precisely in relation to the new security paradigm, compared to the new risks we face, that threaten, that we need to invest even more. We've all seen together that we need better synergy, coordination, that we need some predictive skills, prevention and everything else. Therefore, it is precisely the law's goal that, through this system of homeland security, once again, to combine capabilities, to pool resources and to be responsible on the basis of this, as a modern developed state, to deal with all these threats and risks. Clearly, as far as the budget is concerned, we would also like to make sure that there is no duplication of the ability, or that all these resources, are being used together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53465	Thank you very much. Next, replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53466	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, of course, need coordination and subordination and should put it in the legal framework. Because it's visible in both fires and other natural disasters, that basically we have all the services, we have all the things that should be done and the law was good, it's good that the law is how things work out, and it should be supported, of course with certain amendments as Sagar said before the fireman. It's very important, but I know it was left for Mr. Sanader's amendment, because he has to give such amendments to see that I'm still thinking about firemen. However, it is crucial and basic that we must from the local board, not from the local self-government, you have people dressed from the local board, and not a verse of what happened in Split, dressed. It means people who, if they need firemen to have a dent and they're dressed for it. That they're trained to operate a fire extinguisher. Every local committee, but the key problem is that young people are finally not leaving in Croatia, it is strategically the most important and it is homeland security. That those who robbed this Croatia when it was the Homeland War go away, that we send them away and that we no longer protect them. Because safety is the greatest number of young people ever left because they're out of work. And that's the key problem. But the problem is, when they see how the whole society treats those who have acquired property both through the Homeland War and after the Homeland War, it's the creation of security in people and they don't want to live and go. It's a key problem. And it's time for those who robbed it to leave, and especially those who allowed it. It is our duty and obligation to resolve us through this system and Homeland Security and the strategies they have finally received. Everything else we'll have not left behind this way, if we just pass the law and do nothing, we'll have the same as we've had so far. We have to send a message to the young. You all have the same conditions of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53467	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you, thank you. Okay. And the last replica, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53468	Thank you, Vice President. Dear... Honorable Vice President and Government Ministers with Associates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I just want to praise you first because in this year you can see the first adoption of a strategy that hit the target and everything we haven't organized through the strategy has been pointed out. And especially the adoption of a new law has clearly defined very important things, especially this coordination that is too important in all crisis situations, disasters that can affect our country and which... experience, unfortunately through this past period where you saw exactly what you need and here, you are there with the instincts of the commander, immediately and respecting what we said on the ground, accepted and through this law did exactly what we needed in these crisis situations, that this is no longer happening and that we have a better and better overall system of protection that can hit us tomorrow and what reality is in these times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank both my colleagues and Zagar and Bulja and everyone who advocates fire and who have noticed and I also stress it, but I don't need it when Bulj said it, then it's full of support and Sagar and everyone who will talk after me who is thinking about fire, thank them. Thank you, too, for the understanding you've shown, but here, it would be good, as my predecessors have said, the firefighters find a place in this law. It would also be important for the Croatian Fire Department, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and the Croatian Red Cross. I respect all associations and associations of citizens and all about it, but these are 3 pillars, 3 organizations, which have long dealt with, which have, Croatian Fire Department 150 years of experience, the Red Cross similar, to find their place in this law, please and appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53469	Thank you. Okay. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first one appeared on behalf of the Advocacy List Bridge Club, Mr Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53470	Dear Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I would really ask that in this High House we begin to have topics that will have a character that we all stand for together, that it be better, that it be supported with all the holes. I wish Homeland Security was the first topic to unite, not to share us in any way or politically. As much as that may sound right now and in this way, populistly, when we talk about Homeland, we talk about something sacred, we talk about something that people have died for and we talk about something that people have been trying to do for a long, long time. And now imagine when we talk about the safety of something sacred, homeland security. It's extremely big, it's extremely strong, and I'm begging you, let's get out of your mind of any kind of pulsism and please don't realize that I'm spilling some kind of pulsism here right now. This is what I feel and this is what I needed to say at the very beginning. Since the Homeland War, right here, party policies have taken away almost everything and the ability of the state to defend itself, our country. All these same policies, the party's national pride has made it almost irrelevant and we're witnessing it. We in the Most, indeed national, or homeland security, as we now articulate this concept, position it as a spectrum of functions of the state that are above all party interests. And that's how we set ourselves up thinking about this law, that's how we stood up when we cooperated in their adoption. Homeland security is a topic that we policy-related subjects can say and we need to show the willingness and ability to agree on, when it comes to uniting the goals and unity of the organization, of course, the consequential unity of the results. This is precisely the unity of the organisation's goal, the results of homeland security should not be seen beyond the concept of humanity and solidarity. And we must not be beyond the concepts of humanity or solidarity of hell to talk about security. The past always has an impact on the future, even in this case. Homeland security really should be the result of continuity, historical Croatian thought. Let's go back and see that one word that's significant and that's community, which is based on this... This law should also be the result of a unique historical enterprise called the Homeland War and which is sacred. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law should also be the result of all the historical values that we can be proud of, such as antifascism, to which we are placed, and these values place us among the countries of advanced, i.e. European democracy. All criticisms, please and commendations and warnings, when it comes to homeland security, should be aimed at gathering, not sharing. This is a good framework for further activity, but if we stay Mr. Minister on this, we sit here for nothing today. In particular, the Homeland War results in what we now have as a bill. I will emphasize Article 2.2. Which is important and from which they may be a whole series of misunderstandings of this law that removes all dilemmas about it. Therefore, this law does not alter the jurisdiction of the body and the home security system resulting from the law that these bodies are established as well as the competencies resulting from other laws and sublegal acts. I think this article of this law makes everything clear. I express the satisfaction that has finally been tried to say, that is, a broad enough framework has been put in place so that we can improve activities, where we have defined basic concepts, which is at all a system of homeland security, if it can be better, it can probably, it can be different, it can. But let's start at some point. We define what a crisis is, let's define what a risk is, which is a threat. Here, that this law has been in force, what is now rounding us up Agrokor as it is, is a crisis, we learn the definition and it says, is whether a situation that threatens national security, health, the lives of citizens, significantly disrupts the environment or causes significant economic damage, and the response to such an event or the state requires coordinated action and performs state bodies, and the harmonised application of measures from the authority of those bodies. So we're under this law in crisis. Also, as he spoke earlier about disrespect, beware that the positive laws, the positive decisions of the judicial authorities, banks dare not respect that. It's a crisis. Those who must ensure that this is carried out. I welcome the coordination because it represents one conception of inter-resor and other factors by me at this point, the most important, the unification of all available resources because we are a poor country at this point and that fact we should respect and respect and thus set you up. This requires a whole series of standardised documents, procedures, to get a truly rational and modern system, and I hope that we are going in that direction, and in that spirit we are offering ourselves as a Club of Representatives of the Most to contribute. I also welcome the continued work of something called the Homeland Security System, which was not now the case. They've been working the resistors separately, but this time we'll be able to do it on a continuous basis, or we'll have to do it on a continuous basis. I will also point out that the holders of Homeland Security are in the first place a consensus of all of us. We talk for nothing about everything if there's no consensus, there's no Homeland Security, that's the foundation. Then of course, the profession and all those involved in Homeland Security we must create conditions to become careers, no political. This final proposal, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the Proposal for a Law on the Homeland Security System is indeed a framework for all that I have cited for it, stressing with a view to the future, full obligations of standards and beyond, I hope that we will go in this direction and here, we, as the MOST Club, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53471	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First Mr. Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense with his associates. Well, fellow Vlaho, you have well concluded that this law needs a consensus for everyone in the Croatian Parliament as well as for society and that it is a clear picture of the needs created through this time to ensure that the Croatian homeland after the war is a safe country. I believe that in small corrections like they said before some of my colleagues, we can clearly define that we should all accept this together. But I find it difficult, because there are some opposition parties in the clubs that oppose such a law and oppose the creation of a modernization of the Croatian army, so I simply doubt that they could be the ones who will, by consensus, recognize this need that the law has defined. Those who do not see that we need to get a squadron of planes are probably followers of those who disarmed us and it is probably those who wanted Croatia never to be free, sovereign and independent. This law really, as you just said, needs broad support for everyone and it's worth 4 years because every government has its own concept so it can supplement it and even before the paradigm threatens or threatens itself as such, so it has to be complemented by some new segments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53473	Thank you. Mr. Orepic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53474	Dear colleague, I've asked the axis of this pay phone to avoid any politics and please, let's avoid it. The purchase of a plane can be observed in one way or another by anyone. We're bringing in a document that we all have to stop behind. What's the common framework? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53475	Thank you, too. Another replica, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53476	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Orepic, you have said that such a document in the Homeland Security Act must be an extra-party document. I completely agree with that, and I want it to be that way. The same way should have a consensus on the political scene about its content. But do you think it was also wise by the government, that at least members of certain parliamentary committees, perhaps at a closed session, would be familiar with an analysis of the situation in the security system of the Republic of Croatia mentioned by the Deputy Prime Minister that it was made up? And was it wise to have previously introduced us to certain solutions that he thought would translate into the law itself so that at that stage we could give us some input and feel this law with one joint ownership of all parliamentary parties because it is the best guarantee that it will be implemented in the future. I agree that one consensus on the political scene is crucial for its sustainability and the effective long-term functioning of this system of security that is important to us all, and that would certainly not support Mr Djakic's exposure, which is there, accusing some MPs here in the Parliament that they are followers of those who attacked Croatia. Tell the name who it is, I don't see any here and I think it's very offensive, under the belt to go to such arguments to representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And the question of the plane, you know how we voted in the SDP, the Defence Committee, and that our only concern is whether we can financially withstand this burden and which of the offers coming to the Croatian government is acceptable in terms of finance and also Milanovic's government has made a decision that we must maintain this combat capacity. Just for the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53477	Thank you very much. Mr. Klisovic, you would do well to refer to what Mr. Orepic said when you replicate Mr. Orepic. Here you go, Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53478	Dear counterpart Klisovic, I agree with you that there may have been a lack of wisdom, a lack of political will or a failure to agree on this framework law as it is, but this lack of wisdom as you stress it, is it really not possible that at this point, there must be no stumbling block for us to go together on Homeland Security? In this bill of law, there are enough frameworks for all of us to be together and as far as resources are concerned, I completely agree with you, we are at this point, I emphasized, the poor country, we must respect our reality and develop according to what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53479	Thank you, too. Mr. Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53480	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Orepic, we are a poor country, we are so poor that we cannot afford the luxury of patching up old MiG planes that will never fly away, but that we will buy what is right, what is right and what is new. When you're talking about the crises that we can get into, where we have to find a solution to how to get out of them, I can't help but mention this information that I've come up with, how the crisis is produced, how the crisis doesn't arise, how the crisis isn't being investigated, processed and eventually sanctioned. One crisis was the management of the SDP government and that was the capitalisation through HBOR, so that's hard to tell me, too, what you invented to keep quiet. So HBOR's how to help Đuri Djakovic in the Patria project. I'm so glad my colleague Stazic laughed. E says it like this. A national SDP strategy, fostering good neighbourly relations with Serbia, and that trail is being established by Tesla Bank. Tesla Bank, one of the associates and Djuro Djakovic. Tesla Bank is investing money in Djur Djakovic for the Patria project. He says Djuro Djakovic threw money into the capitalisation of Tesla Bank during the Kukuriku coalition. The director was from HNS Kovacevic, and of course with all the knowledge of Milanovic. The same Kovacevic signed a contract with his wife, Nenada Stazic, for PR services. Her company's name is Business Clinic and the contract was at 30,000 kuna a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53481	Thank you very much Mr. Culej, answer Mr. Orepic. Time's up, just answer what's going on with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53482	I must tell you, you are extremely irresponsible and use this topic for cheap politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53483	And finally, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53484	Comrade Orepic, at the very beginning you told the whole point of this story. Homeland security is the cornerstone of the Croatian state and this is the Homeland War, it is the aftermath of the Homeland War, and I agree that this is above all parties and the law because this is essentially a regulation that can be upgraded, which will be very important in the implementation and therefore your message strongest and there would agree with you, that the homeland is something sacred and country when we talk about any political options, left, right, centres, when we talk about the homeland, when we talk about Homeland Security, it is the least important what we are at this point of opposition, but we need to be here seriously and seriously take these documents that help the security of the Croatian state. Without certainty, there is neither economic prosperity nor economic development. Because of everything that... The home war that arose, it collapsed, meaning it collapsed after the Homeland War, the essence of the unity of the Croatian people in which we defeated a much stronger enemy, which is why the economic situation and the moral and any other situation in Croatian society is as unexpected as the free Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the free Croatian state where young people go and your message and the club MOST is the strongest. Let us rise to these questions, our country must be above all else, regardless of being left, right, central, whatever, the country is the future of our children and we should try to preserve what is most sacred. If we don't take this seriously, if we do as well as after the Homeland War, where we've offended everything that's in the Homeland War, and that's community, love, faith in our country and sacrifice to the future, we'll never have anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53485	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53486	I'll just point out one more time. All criticisms, all praises, any warnings or whatever, when it comes to Homeland Security, must be given in the direction of gathering and not sharing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53487	Thank you. We will now move to the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I once again welcome the minister and associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have the Final Proposal for the Law on the Homeland Security System. This text does not contain any significant changes to what we had in the first reading. First of all, I would like to say that the SDP club believes that the Republic of Croatia has a functioning national security system. This system does its job in accordance with the Constitution and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. And any possible abuse is sanctioned in accordance with the law. In this respect, citizens can be calm to ensure that the competent national authorities involved in the national security system take care of their security as well as the security of the entire country. This system requires a certain modernisation. Like any system operating in a dynamic environment. And the security environment is one of the most dynamic and often can be changed from day to day. The need for better quality and efficient coordination in this area also envisioned a draft National Security Strategy, which was further developed by the SDP government. But it was only about building an existing system, not building a new system because it already exists. The final bill also does not set up in my opinion a new security system but introduces a new coordination between the existing elements of the current functioning system. If the law does not establish a new security system, it is visible from Article 2. which prescribes that this law does not alter the jurisdiction of the body in the home security system. Nor does it affect the provisions of other laws and sublegal acts. And that's probably the most important article of this law. What the law brings as a newspaper is the name itself. It's called Homeland Security, instead of National Security. Both names are acceptable in the spirit of Croatian. For some people, it's the idea of nations. Others prefer home. The SDP accepts both but indicates that the name does not specify the content of the security system. The SDP has already pointed out that the assumption of building a new system of national security or homeland security is an analysis of the existing situation and finding a solution to the current neural point and procedure in the system. The minister today said that such an analysis was made, that parliamentary representatives and even in a narrow format of individual committees were not familiar with such an analysis, and I think it is one mistake in the process of making such a law. I particularly agree, as I said, that a consensus is very important for the functioning of the security system effectively and in the long term. The consensus of precisely complex political parties on the left and right, as well as parliamentary parties on the construction and content of the new national security system would certainly be desirable and would ensure sustainability and continuity. We have already said that the proposed law does not establish a new system, but only another coordination that bears the same name as the Government's coordination for the home security system and Croatian defenders, in this case they have fallen from the name Croatian defenders. The government's co-ordination is also chaired by Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Mr Krsticevic. The difference between these 2 coordinations is the only thing this law proposes in its system includes the bodies of the Security Intelligence System. At the head of both co-ordinations would be the same man as the Deputy Prime Minister for National Security. She's the same person, we've already warned her about the head of the Security Intelligence Agency coordination council. So de facto we have 3 in 1. Three important bodies of a country run by one man. This results in an alarming concentration of power in the hands of a man. Just as the former Deputy Prime Minister in the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic wanted, which was accidentally the president of the HDZ and was not a prime minister. Put under your personal control an entire repressive state apparatus. That was the goal. That the system was then not fair at the will of the HDZ was also seen in the treatment of the Minister of Interior Orepic, who, as a result of his attempt to influence his work, determined that he was responding to the bridge, not to the Deputy Prime Minister for National Security. Once again, we point out, as we did in our first reading, that duplication of high political coordination makes no sense. They only point to poor, inefficient and dysfunctional coordination and co-operation between the government's ministers. And government co-ordination for the home security system and Croatian defenders. By adopting the law, this coordination will not be sufficiently improved. In addition, the Government for better co-ordination with the SOA Director, or the VSOA, police or military need not new formalised coordination, but quality work of ministers and diameters, as well as effective management of state affairs. Let's not forget that the bridge is together with the president of the state, the head of the SOA and the entire security intelligence system. We will repeat some more remarks that we highlighted in the debate in the first reading, which the government did not take into account when drawing up the final draft law. The legislator, which is our government, argues that we are currently unaware of who declares the state of the crisis and who manages it. And it's the Croatian government, so the government of the Republic of Croatia is the one who declares the crisis and manages it. All government resources and international assistance are available to the government for this job. Therefore, the government does not need coordination in which its own ministers are sitting to determine that there has been a crisis. And just as cities like Split burned this summer or flooded as Zadar do not need another body in the decision-making process to slow down the decision-making process. The government must presently meet on the basis of information it receives from its ministers, make a decision on a particular crisis and on the measures to be taken, and, if necessary, a decision on the establishment of operational crisis management headquarters. Coordination in this regard, when the government makes such a decision, is everyone desirable. I would like to point out once again that in point 3 of the final proposal of the law that it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this law. And that's what the minister has told us many times today. And at the same time in paragraph 1 of Article 18. The law, says funds for the implementation of this law are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Now, whether it is necessary to secure the funds or not, but why it is said in reason that they do not need the means to implement the law. Why does the minister say they don't need the means to enforce the law, and the law itself says they need the means to enforce the law. There's obviously one logical non-consistency that needs to be cleared up. And in conclusion, if law enforcement improves the coordination of the implementation of the national security strategy, and the decision of the National Security Council which does not enter into the competence of the Security Intelligence Agency Coordination Board, if it is the urgency to improve coordination in the event of a crisis and crisis management, then the law makes sense and we support it. In this case, the name of the law should be harmonised with its objective, as it is not about establishing a new security system, but rather about trying to improve the existing, or improving coordination. Similarly, if a normative framework is needed, in order to bring standard operating procedures in different state bodies, then we can also support this law, although I think that standards of operational procedures can be based on the government's mandate and the minister's decision. For that kind of thing, the law doesn't particularly need it. It's a matter of simple management of government affairs, management of ministry affairs. But I'm saying if the intensity of these last three things, in which case the law would be... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53489	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. First respected representative of Mira Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said that there is a system, that it works, that it only needs to be upgraded, so in that context it is asked by you, whether this law should or should not be. But it's right here, who does it first. The fact that there are fragments of this system, that this system is not bound, that there are no joint annual plans, these components of this system, there are no common annual work plans etc. So, and if we're going to upgrade it, then who's it up to? The thesis that the Government can determine everything, who is preparing proposals for the Government, analysis, situation, etc. Therefore, here it is determined, the body that is in charge and which will then be the basis that the Government can be effective. The thesis on the other hand to be multiplied here, i.e., wants to put 3 in 1 with a context that you said would be put under the control of a repressive apparatus under one man is simply the opposite of what you said, because this way the repressive apparatus is already under one man's control now. And in this way this whole system is expanding and uniting towards and the report is not only the government, but the National Security Council, which is then one far-reaching circle of people, so even that the thesis, I don't think there are too many arguments standing. As for this difference between homeland and national security. We can say that these terms are very close, but when I have the chance, then I'll explain that this schemetic difference implies and far-reaching changes in the intensity of the system that we want to have. But about that a little later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53491	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53492	Thank you very much. So, a few things. Who's making the decisions to the government? So its own ministries and state bodies that are in the executive system, i.e. in the government system. And that's why we have coordination for national security and Croatian defenders, which is another filter before the decisions come to the government. As for the fragmentation of the system, it can be said that there is a certain fragmented security system in Croatia and that better coordination is needed. But if the aim of this law is just to improve coordination, then they're building a new system. What you are, it improves coordination. What you're saying is a whole new law that would redefine certain powers of the element within that system. It's building a new system. So the difference between building a new system and upgrading an existing system. I don't think we have to go revolutionary with some elements and revolutionary ideas to change the entire system and destroy the existing ones. But right now, I'm trying to upgrade the existing system to make it co-ordinate and more efficient. And I don't know if there were three other things you've been setting up, but we'll do it later, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53493	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53494	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I would like to look back, or to imply your detail about your concern that this law has given a great concentration of power to one man. I think you're wrong about that, because if you've ever been involved in a major event, a major crisis and a disaster, then you'd know, first of all, that it's not some reward, that you're running a major crisis event. That it is one big responsibility, but that such a person must have authority, because if a person who is leading a major event, who is coordinating a major event, will be in a position to call, pray, seek, this or that, for some new approval, then it cannot be managed by a major crisis. So I think this is a good solution and there's no danger of such a guy and there's no fear that someone will usurp someone too much power. Because in a crisis event first, it's not a reward to lead anyone through a major crisis, and when you're leading a major crisis, then it's inevitable that a person who runs this event must have great powers. That shows experience. If you look at the situation, here in Gunya when you were in power. You have provided for the law at the time, unfortunately still valid, that the Director of State Administration manages and manages this system. This man can't call a minister and not a prime minister or vice president to solve an event. And only when such a person comes who is able to coordinate can there be a big event. And that's why it's a good solution, and I don't think you need to be worried about this solution in this law, because it's a quality solution that will help overcome the crisis more easily and faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53495	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53496	Thank you very much. So what you've said, you've actually described the job of a person who's at the head of a crisis headquarters and manages a particular crisis, whatever it is that manages, or whatever crisis it is that you're dealing with. So I wasn't talking about that person. Of course, that person would have to have the authority to really get in touch with any problem in front of her on the ground. What I was saying was about a system we're trying to build, which has three similar and yet different coordinations, and at the head of it is one person. Now don't tell me it's not a concentration of power in one person. So I wasn't talking about the minister who's sitting here right now. Not about him, I'm not talking about the system as a system. For tomorrow another minister will come, the day after tomorrow some third minister, and who knows how these powers we have given him, he will understand and how they will benefit them, and do not let God abuse them. To lead the co-ordination of intelligence agencies, to lead the coordination of the home security system and to lead the co-ordination of the Government's co-ordination for Homeland Security and Croatian defenders, I'm sorry, the concentration of power in one person and this person actually has a complete overview of the country's repressive apparatus. And that's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about systematic solutions, not individual names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53497	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53498	Thank you very much. A colleague of Klisovic, you spoke of the indifference of Article 18(1) and Chapter 3 in the reasoning of the budget. However, each other is fully with the Fiscal Responsibility Act because when you look at the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, then you will see that the law must define where it will be financed from and also, in Chapter 3 of the Explanation of the Bill, you have to indicate whether this bill will generate new costs in the state budget, whether it is in the revenue or expenditure side, and that is why it does not need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. So, Chapter 3 of the budget explanations defines what the minister said in the opening statement, and he said the funds should not be provided because at this point there are services that do this job will only be united, from these existing positions it will be able to finance. Therefore, to conclude this replica, in the provision of Article 18(1) and the provisions of Chapter 3 of this proposal of the law are fully in line with the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, because in the law of any article you saw that some new material assets or anything else should be obtained, then the legislator was obliged to explain how and when and when the dynamics would provide additional resources. They wrote here that no additional funds were needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53499	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53500	Thank you very much. I have heard your argument as well as the former Minister of Finance and the person who knows about finance, but if, in the assessment of the necessary means of law enforcement, it is not necessary to provide funds, additional funds, and in the article of the law, the means to implement this law are provided in the state budget, it is a contradiction to me. So, what you're telling me is that the funds for the implementation of this law are reserved or secured on the budgets of each special ministry or body involved in the Homeland Security System. And that I'm the law or coordination that works for him doesn't need money. So that's it. Therefore, the law will, however, require the entire Homeland Security system of certain means, of course, that it will and should be sought and equipped with all the bodies involved in its work, but I want it clearly seen from this law and not written in my explanation something that does not appear in the law itself. Because it is inconceivable that I do not know, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service has ropes to save people with which the deadline has expired and must spend their use or that firefighters do not have the equipment they need to manage the fire crisis. So I'm not against setting the funds, just to make it clear in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53501	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53502	Exactly on the trail of what I said, that I would like any criticism to be in the direction of gathering, not sharing us all, you've highlighted two problems here. And I support your caution, and I am, believe me, really am because this law needs to produce a whole series of standardised forms that need to shape what you are expressing suspicion or caution. I'll just say, the concentration of power in one man by three basics. This concentration of power of Article 2 fully derrogates, it is simply impossible for Article 2 to remove that possibility. As far as coordination is concerned, you have now mentioned the ropes of some kind that have worn out, expired, precisely because there has been no body coordination on available resources, it has come to this point that these ropes have gone away, lost their usage and have not responded in time. So, this coordination is important precisely because of one moment that the complete picture of all resources is continuously going on not only in crises but also in the peacetime situation, that the safety authority is continuously working and that it draws conclusions amongst other things and on the resources that run out of time. I support, I stand by your position to be careful, but I think this law really has the breadth, the framework and the unification of the possibility of finally moving together on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53503	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53504	Thank you very much for your presentation. So, we agree, in the end, I said on behalf of the SDP club that if the purpose of the law is to improve the coordination of all elements of the national or Homeland Security system that we support it and that we ourselves are aware that coordination was not good enough, and in those drafts that we did, the National Security Strategy recognized it as something that has to change and that we are standing in the same positions. And that's why that part of the law and the SDP supports it. As far as the concentration of the power of Article 2 is concerned, you are right, it is a corrective, very important and I did not say in vain that this is the most important article of this law because it ensures that legal action in this sensitive matter may in the future seem to be very well personal and an attempt to improve its political ambitions on the political scene in Croatia. In order for that to happen, Article 2 is here and we will always warn of it if it occurs in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53505	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53506	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A fellow Klisovic, a similar situation, i.e. open or unclear, has been set up by you in connection with this law and the first reading, and that is whether it is necessary to call it Homeland Security, gave it and it is very necessary for defense associations to be highlighted in the law and whether this coordination is necessary. I think all three questions are welcome to be found in this law. Article 3 sets out exactly what this is about, the Homeland Security system, the crisis, the risk, the threat. And so I really don't see any argument why one person wouldn't run three of those coordination systems or how to call it. Well, I guess the point is that from where there's been a crisis situation to people who run protection, rescue, handle this crisis operation, it's getting shorter and they're all familiar. And that's why I think it's good that state services and institutions are literally not forced to force them, but to give them one such coordination, to coordinate among themselves, and to make at least cost and human resources, i.e. bring the operation to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53507	The answer of the esteemed representative, no answer. Thank you very much. We move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53508	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that I have an understanding for colleagues who are trying to bring emotions into this topic. And you know, we liberals have big problems with that, and the only sanctity for us is the right and freedom of man and citizen. All of this, including institutions, inventions derived from the theory of state and society, which are the upgrades of society, are not for us any sanctity but necessarily evil. In this topic, there is no room for suffering or emotion because the collective security of society is a matter that needs to be very rationally thought and set. And that story of some kind of love is usually abused. Because when you see that whoever says something critical about the law of this kind of bombistic name immediately shows that it is not a patriot or that it does not know it, the heir of those who disarmed Croatia. It's a very ugly atmosphere in which you can't normally talk because watch out, we're witnessing that the greatest patriots are being shown today by the biggest crooks, the con men, the ones who've cut off all the taxes, the mobsters and the others. The easiest thing to say for yourself is I'm a patriot. That should have content. Do you have this law content? According to us, this is not even the case with a bomb title, so Homeland Security, it's something that we haven't been able to find out in either the theory or the definitions of this law because it doesn't answer the basic questions. What, then, is the basis for the safety of a society or a state that society invented for its own safety? Can society be safe if the political system is not stable and there is no rule of law and rule of law? Can society be safe if there is no economic freedom, competence and development of human and material and all other potentials? Aren't the biggest threats to national security crises like this in Agrokor? And that legitimate theme, who knew what, actually testifies that those who were in charge of safeguarding economic stability and then means defence stability in this state didn't do their job. And now we are miraculously surprised by these large numbers, this clienteleist network, this related capitalism that almost compromised the foundations of the Croatian state. We ourselves say that the crisis in Agrokor is the biggest crisis since the Homeland War. These are things that threaten national security. The country's depopulation, too. So who's going to participate in the defense system or the logistics systems that serve it if there aren't people here? You can't defend empty spaces if people aren't there. After all, Leopold and Maria Teresa and her son, Joseph, were well aware of this when they settled in the Danube, including today’s Croatia. This year has been extremely challenging in this sense to see if the existing system works well enough. But she was so challenging in many situations were circumstances so extraordinary that they were difficult or almost impossible to predict. But whenever something happens that crosses the limits of our possibilities, we're ready for radical measures. So we heard this summer's thesis which is extremely dangerous that we need to centralize a complete fire system in Croatia, these are stories that are being planted in our further hypercentralization of the state. That's completely pointless. We weren't even hairier, better organized when the fire system was under the jurisdiction of the MUP. And play with that thesis that cares, so first of all prevention then the curative takes out of the hands of the county, the cities and the municipalities is rude. We can talk about functionality, about equipment, about communication and technological modernity, but as long as we have cases that there are counties in which this thing almost works perfectly because there's no one perfect, and in others there's no question, what are the reasons this doesn't work, but why this doesn't work, can we improve it? We've seen what it looks like in a few specific cases when the National Protection and Rescue Authority coordinated the job and it actually turned out to be a system of coordination that isn't fully established. On the one hand, at their centers in the regions and in the cities, we have a very large number of employees, which, while the crisis is not known what they're doing, four people on the phone, in one shift, what it's for. At a time when companies in the UK organize call centres through their outsorcing partners, for example in Bangladesh or in any country in the world, the problem is to organize a system so that it can serve rationally all needs. But we have to have state service in every city in some shelters, and I don't know where they're going. It's, like, one of the irrationalities. Furthermore, as far as the fire department is concerned, which this year turned out to be something that pops up in the first place, because that's the kind of threat, when we count most on firefighters, so floods and fires. We must be aware that in different parts of Croatia there are different traditions of voluntary fire. We in Velika Gorica have 26 voluntary fire companies, it's an extremely large number, a huge number of people are involved in their work. In some other parts, there is no such tradition. The number of people involved in voluntary fire companies, especially where there is no public fire squad, and they are generally, and the environments are much more exposed to the death than the continental. But then there's the question of how we care about education, about the equipment of these fire departments. Here is an example, in the summer landing corridor of Zagreb airport, there are 2 large settlements, Donja Lomnica and Ščitarjevo. 80% of all air traffic accidents occur in the summer landing corridors. See how you are equipped with voluntary fire companies in Lower Lomnica and Ščitarev. And it's known if the plane falls on the hull, if it doesn't start shutting down within three to five minutes, the chances of survival will fall to zero. Can a public fire squad and a public fire unit from a new terminal come to the scene if this happens in Lukavac or Lomnica, such as happened several times. We've already recorded several incidents. A military plane recently crashed into a field near Lower Lomnica. Every year, incidents are recorded when huge pieces of ice fall from the plane to the house, endangering life because standing crabs are opened, not above the forest, but above the settlement. And then is it possible that the chief fire chief and head of the state administration were first in the history of these institutions in one Lower Lomnica 2.5 years ago. I don't know if the poor people know where Schitar is and how to get to him. These are the details that talk about security. Furthermore, the Air Technical Institute, i.e. the centre in Velika Gorica, an extremely important company of national strategic interest, serves aircraft. First of all, let's say the canaderas. What have we done with this company? We destroyed it. ... General, that's where we're sending the chief of staff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the administration, we sit people who don't have the slightest idea what business is, which is that kind of market. And then it happens that our company goes completely into devastation, that our engineers have 3,500 kn pay and leave. That the people are no longer licensed. And then it happens to you that this whole summer, a canadian is standing there because there's no $50,000 for the part that needs to be changed. This summer when we had the biggest fire challenges. Then what happens? In the 9th month they bring a new canadora, from it they take off, that is, the second canadian, from it they take that part off and throw it into the first one, so this one now flies, and this one again in... Or hangar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the things that matter. Is it possible that the Air Technical Centre administration refuses to sign a collective agreement with employees, which they agreed in their own negotiations. And these say we're going on strike. So is it in our best interest that they go on strike? People who have 3500 kn pay. There are matters of national security. Who will serve these planes for us, and why have we lost licenses to service aircraft, for example, from other countries? Furthermore, it should be said that Croatia is in NATO, NATO membership means a whole series of good and relatively bad things, but it is certainly a benefit, because it guarantees one solidarity in the defence system. There are member states that don't have, say, combat Air Force and have not fallen from their heads and so far no one has attacked them. And they're not afraid to attack them, because they've solved it in some other way, in accordance with their economic capabilities. We also declared military property inoperable and handed it over to government services that then gave it to local self-government, somewhere it works, somewhere it doesn't work. And now we're building new camps and assembly barracks. So are we normal? So, that property we had we declared unspective and we're not using it, and now we're investing huge money in something else. The saga of reintroducing a mandatory military deadline and harassing people. It should be said that the military deadline, mandatory military deadline, was abolished at the time when the number of handbooks who requested the service of the civilian military deadline, compared to those who wanted to go to combat troops, when that number grew important, I think it seemed to me that it was 2 to 1. And then it became completely pointless to send people into mandatory military time when it was seen that 2/3 of people didn't want to. But so many people still want to serve military service in units that it is absolutely pointless to talk about the introduction of a mandatory military deadline because today the number of those who have been admitted voluntarily to military service is 1: 10 of those who have been rejected. So there's as much space as you want. And let's not calculate with that. If you need more armies, take those who want it. You have room for 10 times that. I still want to say something in the end about the functionality of the civil protection system. I was a member of a local headquarters myself, and I can say that it doesn't exist at all. That's just what it's called. So, civil protection headquarters is nothing more than a coordinating body that manages existing resources like the Red Cross, fire departments, utility companies, veterinary cells. There's no civil protection in itself. Imagine the situation that, before this fire in the civil protection system in Split, an organised civil protection system was hired only two thousand people who at any time will know where their schedule is in the event of a crisis situation, as long as their equipment and uniforms, where they must go, in which situation they have certain responsibility, which tools they are in charge of, who of them is in charge of access and traffic control, who is in charge of transport and transfer, who is in charge of evacuation, who is in charge of informing citizens. Imagine that the firefighters in Split had 2 to 3 thousand people on the disposition who would have gone out on the ground within half an hour. And just to take people who have recently retired, from military, police jobs, fire jobs, then volunteers who have enough days in the fighting sector, so where they were equipped, trained and where they ruled these skills, in every settlement in the Republic, you'd have enough people who can come out and participate in solving the problem at any time of crisis. Of course, with the authorities. And now to introduce a third coordination, I hope it will be something more successful for you than it has ever been, but I'm afraid it won't, because until now, all of this, coordination has been in the hands of the executive government. And that's why we've been at our GLAS and HSU club for a long time, and we've been thinking whether to back this up or not. But we see that there's no content here, and we haven't made a decision yet to support it, we'll probably be held back or against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53509	Thank you very much. Now we have a longer list of replicas. The first came the Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53510	Dear fellow, you have said that this law has a bomb name, perhaps it could be added that it is too ambitious since it has 22 articles and the Homeland Security system cannot be defined in 22 articles because I believe, by my understanding, your own, the Homeland Security system is also the number of employees and the number of newly opened jobs and social security, the fight against poverty and the fight against corruption and the fight for citizens' health. So all of this does, and demographic policy and population policy, all of these are components of Homeland Security in the broadest sense. I think this law could bear the free name of a system of prevention and elimination of security threats, whether they're military, whether they're elemental accidents and if it had that name, then it wouldn't have anything against this law, but I also think as well as you that all the components of this law already exist and are all within the jurisdiction of the executive authority. The issue of co-ordination is not dealt with by force but by the ability of one institution to manage and here in particular by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We can talk as much as we want about fire extinguishing problems, but we can't understand that the circumstances in which we live have changed, that we don't have people on the ground who are motivated to protect their agricultural goods, or their fields, their pastures, their forests, etc., are simply gone and can't replace 1 or 5 canads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53511	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53512	Dear colleague Hrelja, of course I agree with you, so the question of rationalization, the question of a good organisation, if you will, is quite a staff policy. So you can have a complete dumb-ass head of the system and you can have a person who's well-organized, who knows how to run the system. Let's say we have a study called crisis management. In the Republic of Croatia there is a study of higher education, therefore, a professional study of crisis management. I wonder how many people are even employed, who finished that study? Does anyone keep in mind that there is a system of education for major crisis situations? Well, I don't think the Department of Defense does any. That he doesn't work in the MUP. In large systems, none of them work at all because they know everything better than anyone else. So it's a whole set of things. From personnel policy, organization, equipment, if you want commitment to your own business. There is no Prime Minister who won't answer the phone to the chief fire chief. Tomorrow morning he would no longer be prime minister in the normal state because he does not call him to ask him what it is but to address him with an extraordinary request or to inform him of something that he as head of executive authority in the state needs to know. Therefore, the matter of authority is a matter of success, of provenance, not of political appointments. But as long as we're putting such service chiefs politically similar people just because they've got a party card, yak and a hook for us. We have a case in Velika Gorica where we brought a professional who transformed and modernised the public fire department within a year and made it modern. Functional and efficient. The government changed, got a man's leg. Why? Because the previous administration appointed him. It's no good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53513	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Beus, you were talking about this law as if it were empty and not talking about important things that would concern the title itself. I would remind you only in Article 5 of this law that are clearly described and clearly state what this law provides for as objectives and how it explained them. And so there are seven of those goals that you probably haven't read, so they don't mean anything to you. The objectives are clearly numbered and then Article 6 below is a composition and a system of Homeland Security clearly described. I do not think that it should be ignored regardless of the number of articles of this law, this law clearly wants to define what Homeland Security and the objectives that will be set up to manage security risks of importance... and action in crisis situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's necessary to make fun of or talk about emptyness because it's clear that as well as the prime minister as vice president of the government is also with a whole team of people, with groups of workers working on it, you've made significant efforts and compared it with laws in the environment and in Europe and the world and made the best solution that will be for the needs of the crisis situations and the prevention of these crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53515	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53516	You know, colleague Djakic, when one law tells you that there are seven goals, you read that these are actually some kind of semi-strategic rather than goals, then you expect at least to see that law worked out for you how you will achieve your goals. In this law it is not defined, he even says more about something that is for me blasphemy because it shows that this law is excessive. He says, no body that so far operates in the Homeland Security or national security system will change its scope, so we are not delegating at all any legal provision that has so far spoken about what these bodies will do and what their powers are. And the purpose of the new law is to be exactly in changing their powers if the system hasn't worked properly so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53517	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53518	You're right, my colleague, to ask what's putting Homeland Security at risk, is that now a danger outside, a threat to a state. We don't live in that weather right now. But what is really a threat to Homeland and national security? It's an inside job. It's been going on for decades. She doesn't have her epilogue yet. The collapse of civilization values that we swear we fought for, that we are a society that belongs to those values. You know when Defence Minister Churchill asked him at the time of the war as prime minister of war, he suggested he cut the culture budget and increase the defence budget because he said to the prime minister, we're at war, and Churchill answered him if I cut the culture budget, and then why are we at war? So we are at war for those values that this culture represents. We're at war against one primitive. That's our enemy. And that's why I'm going to increase the resources for culture. That's what Churchill said. I was talking here yesterday, 10 of them, I don't know which association the defense attorneys asked for a journalist named Jurkas to lose his job at HRT and he lost his job at HRT. 10 of some associations fight effectively against freedom of speech. Is this terror of freedom of speech in Croatia an attack on Homeland Security? For me yes, for me yes. For it is then the victory of primacy over wisdom, the victory of uneducatedness of education. Is Homeland Security threatening that one representative here speaks five times about capitalisation? Because he doesn't even speak Croatian. And here he comes on the list of one party and here he represents someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53519	The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53520	Comrade Stazic, we agree. So, a society where a man as an individual or a member of a group feels safe, welcome, his own on his own and happy because he can live freely, within the limits of dignity, that society can expect him to defend that society. But if he doesn't live like that, then big words won't help him. But if he and his safety are threatened every day, then the whole community is threatened. Like robbery, corruption, and this situation in the judiciary. Tell me who can trust the Croatian judiciary more when a man kills all plus everything and then is told he is admitted to having a syncope. So everyone comes syncope 28 times a day. It's a pain in the ass. It's a security threat. If you can't be sure that our foreign tourists will normally be able to go after the Adriatic, that someone won't hit them, crush them and kill them, and they won't answer for it, then it's a security threat because it's the same message for both our domestic sailors and the people living at sea. Be careful when you go out with the boats because you never know if any Tomo Horvatincic will come from next door. Tomo Horvatincic with small letters, because there are many.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53521	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53522	Thank you very much. Comrade Beus, you have begun your debate with the topic of protecting human rights. So here are a few articles that must have something to do with protecting human rights. They have something to do with protecting human rights. Portugal declared at least 62 dead in a fire in Portugal 3 days of mourning. U.S. dramatic photographs from a submerged million city, a situation catastrophic, the number of deaths impossible to determine, damage in billions of kunas. Ireland's devastating storm killed three people yesterday, and today there are 300,000 left without water. Switzerland's wild mudstorm in Switzerland took half a village. The Colombian mudstorms killed 254 people. There's no power or water. Fortunately for us, neither in the fires nor in the floods were the victims. But in your debate about this law, you have repeatedly stated and used the word meaninglessly, irritantly, meaninglessly. Do you really think that the concern of the safety of our citizens is meaningless, both annoying and meaningless? Isn't human rights, or human rights, the right to life not a fundamental human right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53523	The answer to the esteemed representative, Beus Richemberg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53524	Comrade Uncle, you would in principle be right that what you're saying has something to do with this law. In fact, this law has nothing to do with the safety of citizens, but with the coordination of those institutes and institutions that have already been defined in other laws as part of this security system. So, this law does not improve their work or their work in part, or new powers, or any other powers, if you make a statement by law that they are not touched, but remain as they are, only one case is brought to them which will in future order them to do so. So nothing guarantees us that it will be more functional than it already is. And otherwise, of course, every lost life is awesome and horrible and we're happy that these disasters that happened to us really didn't reflect so much that we lost people and that's the greatest value of this system because that and the system made it possible because it works in a lot of places. Well, we're not going to say now that these great damages we've had, the great fires that happened because the system didn't work. No, but we have prevented an even bigger tragedy than materialism, that human beings do not happen thanks to good organisation, because people are really solid, that they have not saved themselves to help each other, regardless of the flood in Gunja or this about the Split fire. But the fire came to the heart of Split and it must teach us some lessons. But when you look, if you know anything about it, if you know about the configuration of the ground down, if you're from that area, under such circumstances to prevent the fire from coming to you from the Tugar forest down to the House is impossible and there is also a set of happy circumstances. You need some rain in here. How many times have we waited for some fires to end to rain like this? recently on Velebit, because otherwise you can't shut it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53525	The next is a replica of Tomislav Zhagar's distinguished representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53526	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Beus Richembergh, I agree with you, may the fire simply be impossible to put out, and it is not good to choke him because of the smoke many around him may suffer. Namely, I was encouraged by your mention of fire and all that was related to it. We in the Republic of Croatia have 60 thousand 663 operational firefighters, of which 3 thousand 525 are professionals. So, most of the firefighters are in voluntary fire companies. They're operationally ready because doctors have passed, they've been trained. It is a huge potential that the Republic of Croatia has. And as head of the community, I've encountered this problem that you're talking about, civil protection, you know that sounds nice, but you're the only one who can talk to the firemen. When there was a flood, the firemen went first. When it's dry, firemen go first. Of course, it's not just a fire. There are technical interventions where firemen go first. What I warned the minister about, it would certainly be worth putting the fire department into law because the units of local self-government, actually their leaders, because many of the leaders of the local self-government units, at least so some say they are aware of what they are responsible for, would never even run for office. So, there's if we're going to say it like this if the system goes by imposing from above, so someone from Zagreb will come and order what's going to be done somewhere in a community, it's the wrong system. The system has to go down with those resources we have because the people on the ground know best the terrain, they also know the dangers that are potential. And again back to it, it's better to keep the fire from happening, but once it does, it's hard to shut it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53527	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53528	As I said, we live in a region that has an extremely rich fire tradition that has now gone back over 130 years and I greatly appreciate the efforts of voluntary fire companies because I've seen countless times what this social capital is stored in that great ball. However, we also need to know that when the system is completely decentralised that the funds have not gone down and that you have completely imbalanced situations from the municipality to the municipality. Some large municipality or city that has enough material resources can single out legally prescribed funds, let them do more than that. But the state should help to eliminate the standard of equipment and efficiency. I know that through the fire communities it is done and that some richer, let's say the Zagreb Fire Department is very happy to donate, give its equipment and many voluntary fire departments have received equipment thanks to the well-being of these stronger sisters or brothers in this system. But it's not a good thing it's a college thing. It's not good for a fire intervention I've been on to, a public fire unit to take out hoses from all over the place. It's not good because it's dysfunctional and nobody's missing anything and the report comes out that everything was wonderful and wonderful. And it's not and it can't be. So let's improve the system where it starts. Let's get the locals involved. What you say to yourself whenever something happens is called a fireman. It's part of our tradition. Firefighters say: “Fire out, brother save” So they have two dimensions, not only to put out fire but also to save their neighbor, no matter what happens to him. It is an extremely important humanitarian structure in our society. And they need help and I don't think anyone in this government has anything to do with it. It's just the question at which to find, how and at what speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53529	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53530	Dear colleagues, you've worked out this fire system well, but to touch the strategic level. Our problem is doctrine and mixing doctrines. The military is one institution, an organisation that has introduced new doctrines into its work, that means NATO, before it was the former system, now you have officers. And that system introduces people has an organization that lowers the initiative and leads to the lowest level. That's the point, life. We don't have that yet. What about other sectors of our society? That's what we don't have, what is the foundation of society and individual responsibility? What about the judiciary? If you have about justice, if it's a matter of national security of 20 judges who are a threat to national security. All mine, it's a doctrine from the former state, they don't belong there, it's what the army did. Second, where are the money lessons? After the Vietnam War, the Americans conducted a basic analysis of that war, he began to finish in the '70s, where our lessons were learned, but until the '90s, and after the '90s, there was no such thing. If the policy is to set priorities, we see there if you read an open source of information, our problem is all an internal problem, which is personnel, training, equipment and the mental set, we forget. I mentioned the judiciary, that's why we have hundreds of thousands of pending cases. Here's another thing, the corruption of early cancer of every post-Communist society doesn't talk about it. It came from somewhere. The same characters, the same people, the same mental set, the same social directors today rock the Croatian economy. In the end, I would recommend to the government and the parties to agree once and to sit together and teach them what centralised planning is, decentralised performance, learned lessons because every system this, every meeting on the military produces action, and we stand on these key issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53531	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Beus Richemberg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53532	I agree with your findings except for this last recommendation. So, no matter what Damir Krsticevic is my friend, whom I greatly appreciate, I would never like him to tell me that this country will function because he is formatted in the military. I don't want a professional soldier to ever give me a prescription to function. Not because it's wrong, but because that model is not a model of civil society. Civil society is disarmed by definition. And it's the army that's actually that layer defined by the contract that created the state to protect the national space or the state space from the external threat as part of a repressive apparatus. And that's why I'm trying to see him as a civilian because now he's a minister and he has to be a civilian and he has to act like one. But I don't like being ordered by soldiers and being in the army, and on the other hand because I'm a liberal. The matter of national security is a political decision, soldiers are here to fulfil the tasks of the state as such on behalf of its citizens, through their legitimate representatives and do not need to reverse things. We don't need soldiers to teach us anything but honesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53533	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53534	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with you in much of your discussion, you are well informed that you have been practically involved in the life and work of the fire department, civil structures related to protection and rescue. And I'm sure he'd sign a bunch of things you said. However, we must be aware of some facts. And that, first of all,... uncentralized the system would be a tragic nakarada. Although there are now great initiatives in this sense, which I am fighting bloody every day. Because it would be a new tragedy for the system in total. But we should welcome what Minister Krsticevic and the people here are those present who propose this law, two key things. First this article. Two that you say may not be good. He's just saving because he says in peacetime we're all doing our job. And when the crisis is then your public unit is from where you said from Zapresic or Velika Gorica, then it will be made available to the system. And that's a good solution, that article 2 is just great. Secondly, this coordination is fantastic for us. Why? Because in that state of crisis, then we know who the head is and we need it. We've had a situation, you say, the commander-in-chief will easily come forward, the prime minister will contact him. But in the last term of command, we have appointed a clerk. It was named by the government, now not by the government but by the director of state administration. Which is tragic. He must, and here we have now agreed that the Chief Commander must appoint the Government, that he has authority. And that's the key to the solution. Mr. Mandic gave the amendment, last time we agreed as then representative of the ruling majority, that the Croatian Fire Department should be put into the Civil Protection Act. No, it's dangerous. That's you, we had a drone that said to cancel number 193, 112 we put in, that's them, and the secretary said, and there's no God and there's no God anymore. It's something to fight against. So we had a lot of problems. This should be supported, now I appeal to you and ask that your club support it because it will be a great contribution and importance to this whole thing. And this article 2 and this coordination will give us new opportunities. Here you are a big knower, so back it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53535	The Honorable Representative Beus Richemberg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53536	My colleague Sanader, I'm no big knower, I'm just getting information about these things because of the work I've been doing or I've been doing. And there's a matter of sound logic, so so far, you've mentioned well there are several situations where we have constantly appealed to governments, include firefighting seriously. And they ignored it as the civil protection system has down there that they just submit. They're not important here, they're just executives. And in fact, every crisis shows that they are the most experienced and that they are the most important and that everyone expects them to solve the crisis. But when you have this discretion in one big crisis that the head of the local crisis department, the president of the state tells you one story, the defence minister knows another story, the head of the State Department of Protection and Rescue has his own story, and then the chief fire chief tells you a third, fourth story to the press. This testifies to the inconsistency of work at that level which is already regulated by law and will not change this. This law will not, unfortunately, change that. First of all, he didn't even recognize the fire department. Let's just say that by the next reading, that thing will be infatuated. I do know, for example, that the fire community that you are at the head of is an extremely important one medium through which it communicates this entire structure of voluntary firepower, but the story of public fire departments must be as serious as that of a single nivel as the decentralised means in school allow those who have few high standards because it is a matter of protecting human lives. So this system of decentralised funds in school can help to improve this system too, but take it down to the local community to centralize it, I agree with the complete disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53537	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53538	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is my colleague Beus several times already in the debate, in the replicas mentioned actually the fire that you also highlighted in this debate. In fact, what we can conclude is that the only real operating force is especially in smaller local units. Of course, there's a problem with funding here. We've all detected that in local units with stronger fiscal capacity we have better equipped fire companies, so that civil protection that is and fire is part better in local units that have stronger fiscal capacity. Civil protection, what exactly is she to you besides fire? Turns out there's a pile of paper that we in local units have to deal with. It de facto turns out that you have to have almost one person employed to do all these plans, to organize, and actually what comes out of it is nothing. But actually, as much as we invested in civil protection with the exception of firepower, that's what we got. Because look at how much it's invested in civil protection compared to how much it's invested in the MUP, the MORH, and they're all part of that one system. How many citizens know about civil protection? They don't know anything over. They're even chasing it with that one and the DSZ that existed in the former state. So, our entire civil protection system comes down to fire, it comes down to one good will of individuals, it comes down to quality associations and actually citizens' readiness, and citizens always show that they engage in those crisis situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53539	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53540	Your first-hand experience is extremely important. I had something a little different because I was in the executive power of a large unit of local self-government that was then in the civil protection system not only fire but also a whole series of other components. But civil protection itself didn't have its own drive. It was really just an administration, and when you do, then it happens to you that a strategic document on the protection against fires in the city's international airport is coming to you at the session of the city council. There's not a word about it being a summer-land corridor with extremely high risks. So what do you do? Take that strategy and beat the shit out of whoever brought it. What else can you do? So, elemental stuff. Why? Because they're copying coppy pastes from the municipality to the municipality, from town to town. No specifics are taken. But that's what they do, and they usually carry that story, the fire chiefs, first of all, to the public, and they put it politically, and you know it well. That should do it. If it's in our best interest for a party colleague to be head of a public fire department or president of a fire department before it's interested in being a functioning system, then it's also a hook. For 15 years, political factions have been fighting in Velika Gorica, though only one party will have its man in charge of the fire department. Is that a shame? So ask Anta Sanader how luxuriant it is to be president of the fire department. He probably would have done something else in his spare time if he didn't love that call or that story the way he loved her. But pushing into politics is never good, because bad ends. So come on, let's step back, you'll see that the system is going to be more functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53541	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53542	Thank you very much. My colleague Beus, the safety of life in one city, in one state, whether you live here or come here is practically in every segment of life and very often beneath the lukewarm public interest many things that are in principle and the greatest threat to the safety of all of us. By reading this law, I think his intention and purpose is precisely to make these things in those moments of crisis co-ordinate. However, what I decided to report for your replica because you mentioned two things that we live together, we live in the same city and especially this ZTS which has grown to me in a special way because in 91st, as president of the crisis staff, I've held talks with the commanders at the time, and I won't forget that General Tus once knew how to tell me – Ivan, ask the commander only to give you software to maintain MIGs. Unfortunately, the software they took with them and 20 MiGs from that ZTC because such an agreement was signed to this day in that ZTC has not arrived. And that ZTC was probably then the Dragon, one of the strongest companies in the MIG maintenance world, and they even had one of their permanent bases in Libya. But with these MiGs and that software, 300 employees left. Some came back later, some never came back, and that dragon works the way it works. And when we talk about firemen, even though this Dragon must be very important, you only mentioned canaders and a number of other things. It might be better if the moments were in the ZTC than in Ukraine, but then. And when we talk about fire, so with full right, I can say it because for years and as a minister and as a representative in this assembly, I was talking about fire on the Adriatic, it doesn't go out in the 7th month, it goes out at the 11th and 12th months when the budget is brought. Then we have feelings for these firefighters like we didn't have them the other day when we discussed the Law on the financing of local self-government units. At the time, no one thought of firemen, and that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53543	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53544	Croatia does not have much to offer in this segment, so the production of goods and services for the safety itself except for two companies in Croatia, one private, one state-owned. This state, according to her, so we're treating the ZTC as amazing. So the head of this company has traditionally been, for what, 15 years since it came out of the defense system since it became d.o.o. We bring people who have no idea what a Virman is, let alone what a business plan looks like, which is a situation on the market, where they can find jobs when they can't do what they've done before, and that's how it's seen, as if it's in someone's interest to break it all apart. And it's already broken up a lot. So, is it possible for someone who does such a sophisticated job to be so depressed? They could do miracles. You yourself know the quality of the frame there at the ZTC. Now, I don't know if there are 300 in total and there were 1700 and something, 760 in total. In any case, that drive was one of the model drives. And it's not in our best interest that it works properly. It's not good because we don't have a place to serve our canadres right now, but over there. And it's not good for the army to create its own service when it already exists there. So just to rationalize a little bit of the whole system would already be much better. From that to all the other elements you mentioned where we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53545	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next club representative, one notice. Since this point has gone a little bit further and to assume that it will take another 3 hours and because the applicant is unfortunately not there, we will skip point 2 that we have planned today and we will continue with the other 5 points when we end of course this point. So we will skip the point of the National Development Cooperation Strategy proposal for the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2021. Here, now we're going to continue, of course, with this point further and the club representatives. And the next club of MPs is that of HDZ, HSLS, HDSSB on behalf of which they will speak, apparently, only the respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President and Minister with his associates. Well, there's a lot that's already been said here today, and it's interesting to listen to these discussions. What made me happy at the very beginning of the debate is that you have already announced that the amendment will be related to the fire that is so mentioned. And with that amendment that will be, means including our club will absolutely accept this law. When I listen to debates here and when we talk about this law, then I actually come to a very simple realization that we are very contradictory. And even those who criticize this law eventually turn out to support it. When we talk about this law, I will not, of course, talk about this part of the Armed Forces and that part of the security, this is the system that is organised and being developed, and I will talk more about the part of the security of citizens in which it is the most in these debates of speech. When various natural disasters occur such as in Croatia lately or when refugees happen or something like that, then we panic over everything we have. And then it's very good when we have any organised system in the Republic of Croatia that jumps in and does business. And that is true, it is worth repeating again today, that is, in the first place, the fire community, the Croatian Fire Department with its members in the first place, so a voluntary system, then we can talk about a professional system that has its own command line, which knows how it works and in what situations. And the Croatian Red Cross. We talked about him here a little bit, the Croatian Red Cross, the institution in every disaster, disaster and uncertainty of the citizens, which was in the extreme case precisely in such situations in accidents when they were natural disasters, when people needed help. There was talk here that we had a system, that the system was working. So then there was talk that we didn't have a system, that it didn't work. So then there were speeches that should be prescribed by this law which which the body that is in the system in Article 6 should do, but all bodies have their duties and obligations, precisely, clearly and defined what they should do. And we just lacked this kind of short bill that would link it all together, which would finally tell us who it is that's giving a warrant at some point, giving an order and involving someone to operate. And that's why it's good to come to this kind of law and finally get these things going. Yeah, civil protection was a lot of talk here, that's right, that's something we have on paper that doesn't really work. I'm convinced that by passing a law like this, dropping down and that system will run. It would be wonderful to see that in some area where there is an elemental accident, fire, flood, citizens of volunteers who are members of Civil Protection are educated and trained, who have their own chain of command, who know exactly where to come, how to come equipped, what to come and what to do. No one can tell me that this nobleness and humanity of Croatian citizens who showed themselves this year on fires especially in Split and several years ago in Gunja is on floods, that this is something that is good. It's wonderful that people are so human, but it's not good when people who are needed, untrained, unorganized come to such dangerous places. It's fortunate that no one got hurt, and at the same time we have a fire system where trained, educated people who have passed all the schools don't have a medical examination can't put out the fire. And the citizen who came here on his own initiative is allowed to put out the fire. What it's like to be commanded by this fire- or flood-exploitation action to prevent floods. How's that man doing? He's responsible. He must, at the very least, get those people away from that place so that someone doesn't get hurt, means this law and from here call to all citizens who obviously have humanity in themselves, great humanity should be involved in their units of local self-government in civil protection units depending on the interest which, where interested in intervention teams should be educated and then be willing to perform when there is a need that little, little, little unfortunately happens. A friend of mine and a colleague of mine used to mention three words often – food, stability and security. I'll say his name that's General Darko Rukavina, he's often said it often, and I'm not sure if maybe in Article 5 of this Law, where the law's goal was written, he shouldn't have put home-made food insurance. It's because some other laws have to solve it, but all the things they write in this law have to solve some other laws because this is rounding up the whole story. Because it just all comes down to the extreme at that point. People have to eat. They say those who analyse the situation in Croatia do not give God to close borders and empty centres, that Croatia would not have its own food for a month. Quite dangerous and, perhaps, in some future time, it is necessary to consider production, domestic production, own food production as one of the strategic tasks of the National Security Act, Homeland Security. I think it's something that's very, very important. What greatly disrupted this system that exists in Croatia, which is organized, and that is fire, that is the Red Cross, these are various organizations that operate that form the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. No one has done more damage than that structure and he has tried all the time to adjust everything from the field to himself and impose himself on commanding the entire system in a strange way. The sooner we get rid of that problem, the sooner it'll work. Perhaps this law, the adoption of this law, is the basis for it, perhaps this law now defines this system of command and indeed with the civil protection we have and the Civil Protection Act, is perhaps the time to redesign this concept well by the State Protection and Rescue Authority. Because I've seen no significant benefit from this National Protection and Rescue Authority since it was set up. The more we see alone the interference and often the obstacle. We've set up a bureaucratic apparatus that's paralyzed and actually stopped what's happened before and might have happened in the field better. And there's this role that was talked about here, the role at local level, the role of local self-government. There must be one vertical command from the top down in these situations. There has to be. It can't be in a situation where an evil happens to be a democracy and a solution to things the way anyone wants to be on the ground. He can't. All of them must be involved and adapted according to certain rules, and so it is good that such a law is passed because simply if at local level all this could be solved then local leaders would not call everyone around them and often call on the state institutions that something is not done, normally because they can't do it, they can't solve it. But of course, by being there, they are an integral part of this part of the law that told everyone who had to be involved in it. We've had a lot of duplication, a lot of command, a lot of duplication powers. The Deputy Prime Minister also talked about duplication in the principle of material resources, equipment, so it seems to me that a single framework is being created, and one path, one path that will be able to work planically, equipment, all together there has been a lot of talk about it, and it seems to me that there are some indications and some ideas that professional firefighters would again be exempt from local self-government, put under state to say so in government, under the MUP, which was once, I don't think that's good. I think we're going to do two of the same jobs again, we're going to split the same jobs on two sides, and it's not something we should really support. I think the JVP as professionals must work in symbiosis with volunteers and actually be those who are the backbone, those who are professionals while volunteers are who, therefore, all the infantry that has to do the main part of the job. But definitely according to local level, there must be more money for both equipment and education and especially for medical examinations of volunteer firefighters because it is one cancer wound that everyone has and nobody in principle goes to some large number of firefighters who go to a medical examination than they are satisfied, so to speak, some of those legal norms and there are many more people, there are more people who want to get involved, who want to act in this direction and give their contribution to the security of the nation, the safety of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53547	And your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas, so let's start with the first replica of the distinguished representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrg, you were talking about the problem of an uneducated unit. We all know that in local self-government units that what's educated and what we can really count on, they're fire squads. But JVPs clearly function in large areas, in large cities, and they are definitely educated, all other units clearly depend on, I would say, smaller environments. We in Croatia actually have more than 50% and a lot more than 50% of the cities and municipalities that are below 10,000 inhabitants with one I would say, modest budgets, with resources that I can count on in such a way that I can count. The fact that the law has ordered us to have civil protection units now. I'm increasingly thinking that these civil protection units in the majority of the environment don't make any sense, but it literally doesn't make any sense because people just aren't interested in the work when you call them, they don't respond and what I know as a leader that units that I can really count on them are firefighters. And I'm increasingly thinking that the fire department should be at the top of the pyramid, not civil protection. I'm saying it from my experience. If this were to happen and the fire department was to be competent in the event of major threats and not just fires and floods, and not civil protection, then fire protection should be strengthened. And there's what we've actually talked about more than once, and especially about the Law on the financing of local communities, that this country should be either all mother or all stepmoms, and not that JVPs are being financed without fire communities in municipalities, which is, in turn, those who have a smaller budget, not to be financed. And there he would ask for the intervention of here and the ministers and his assistants, is it possible in these smaller municipalities to enable the financing of fire-fighting by the system or at least about as much as the JVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53549	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53550	Thank you very much. Comrade Prelec, we are actually continuing the debate the other day when there was a debate on the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, and I think even I talked about it and said that it should be so targeted. No, we need civil protection. We need civil protection because what I've mentioned now in bringing up the club's views on this law, that they appear to us in these areas where natural disasters and accidents occur, a huge number of citizens who want to help is actually proof that there are people who want to engage actively, but maybe not enough sensitised public to involve people. Maybe they weren't offered enough. I know some cities have even intervention teams. Here's to me in the Križevci, we've formed intervention teams at the Red Cross City Society, so we've equipped them slowly every year, as a civil protection system and united them all. The fire department, volunteering, given this part and the legal obligation of the medical examination, actually offers this civil protection structure just has to be a little bit planned and absolute fire must be the first place in the work because the most organized, the most people there are, but let's say people who can't go to the firehouses can't go to interventions like that, they're educated. They can be in another part of that system, which needs civil protection. And I can be involved in it and I can act, I can function, so I think civil protection is. We just need to make a good move and set things up, but in any case we use that system that we now have, that system that works and that system that we can all set up that exists practically in all of Croatia, it's firemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53551	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrg. Replica Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrg, you mentioned food production in the context of national security, and indeed, there is this link. Of course, this law deals with that classic concept of security, and I think it's a good thing that it does that and that's how it's arranged for these needs. Because, as we know, safety can be seen in this narrow sense. Of course, it can also be in this expanded place where, of course, the production, the food, and that place. But in order to come up with such a broader idea and all these elements, I think we need good, that classical conventional concept of security and, of course, that system of homeland modernized and well organized, and that's why I think that's exactly how this law does it. That's why it is wrong for me and for those who would go the other way, we heard it in this debate, that we should wait with some investments in the home security system, including in that defensive part, until some other things can be resolved. That's, I'd say an old-fashioned way of thinking. Today, in the world, it is accepted that development is impossible unless you have a preconjecture of peace and security. So it's a logical sequence. We must have a good, effective system of homeland security. Of course, then we could cover all the other things. There, as you said, is also a very important element in food production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53553	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53554	Thank you very much, fellow Stier. I'm glad you noticed that, and definitely. Everything we're talking about and from that part if we're looking at an army, if we're looking at people who are on some kind of intervention... Secure the food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And perhaps this is some time in the future to give the signs of launch, indeed, of a climate in Croatia, that it is very important and important domestic food production. I know that even today may seem like one of those flossule expressions when we have these problems, but if this doesn't begin to be talked about normally, if it isn't put as a priority, if it continues in this tomorrow, in some law, in some document aimed at the safety of Croatian citizens, then we'll find it hard to get it. Maybe it's just such an opportunity for something in that direction to go. And look, when we talk about that security itself, home as a home, it's where a man feels the best, the safest thing to do, he knows there's some heat there, there's someone around him, there's something to eat, there's something I don't know, a warm bed. So so is this country that should instill such a feeling to all citizens. And we have witnessed this time in these 27 years, that very often in this assembly there have been policies and laws that have separated exactly that. Who have broken up that sense of security. Today, we need to take it all slowly back and make people aware of it. Because, unfortunately, that's how it is. That can be easily argued. Everything that's bad, that's good. All that's good is bad and it could be. You should put what's good is good. And home and homeland security must be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53555	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53556	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, I would like just one brief replica of one part of your exposure, you mentioned several times medical examinations. So you said one good comparison, people came to the fire, naked, bare, bare, human, big heart, and firemen who didn't have a doctor's license. And you a day can... The system fell apart, there was no system, there was nothing known. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one of yours, one of those statements is saying how the system was. What I keep saying in the media. Not only that, but I say at every moment, in every place, there's known who's in command, who's in command, who's out, who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge of the fire, who's in charge. So at any point, you knew that when it comes to firemen. But we're bombed by a team. Unfortunately, among some officials, the system fell apart, there was no system, blah, blah, blah, blah, so on. But I'm glad you noticed that, but as a man from the local administration, it's clear that you were familiar with it daily. You had it a day as a problem. So a firefighter must also be equipped, trained and trained for this activity and this, medical examination as an important detail, to see both the health and physical willingness of a man to be a firefighter. Here's a thank you for that detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53557	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53558	Well, that's exactly what this is about. Of course, the fire department has its own system and that it knows exactly where it is going and how long it can be and we know that we have a situation in Croatia today, that in any part of Croatia within the time it takes for cars or vehicles to get to that place, that it will certainly be as many firefighters as it takes in that place. And that's the part that works. On the other hand, this second part appears where citizens want to help, have a big heart, have a will, have a desire but are not simply aware that perhaps by being there, they can often do more harm to themselves and even make it impossible for those who should operate properly. And not to mention how much responsibility is placed on the back of those people who command that system and who have to do the job. This second part and statements and various kinds of things can be said by strange statements that very fiercely echoed in the ears of the citizens was unfortunately present and because of the lack of such a law because such a law will be all defined, more generally no one will be able to say that something is not set up, that no one knows what to command, how to act. That's why it's very important to prescribe it. I'm glad that this law has only a few articles, and I'm really glad that we don't get into some of those discussions now, the interpretations, I don't know how, very short, very clear, the pyramid goes down and it has to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53559	Thank you very much. Mr. Angelko Striker has the right to a replica, please. He's gone. Mr. Tomislav Jagar, he's got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53560	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague Hrg, when I saw this bill of law, I remembered a statement from an American admiral I don't know on behalf of him says if you want to change the world, start by making your bed first thing in the morning. You can see in this legal proposal one of these military writings and perhaps to praise the minister, you see here he defends the law with six of his associates and there are seven here, so defends the law and that's for every praise. In that sense, this law provides a good, good basis for the future because as far as I understand it and the strategy says it will change every 4 years and it is not a problem even if the law changes. But this law provides a basis for some things to really coordinate. And what the most important part of this replica of yours is what you said, and I totally agree with that. The other day a craftsman told me, you know what our country's problem is, what we're talking about reforms, we're always talking about some crucial reforms, big reforms. And reforms are done so that always what we see is not right is changed immediately. We see that this system sucks, who's in charge of the fire department? We have the State Department for Protection and Rescue, we have the Fire Department, the Ministry of the Interior. The firemen need everyone and no one cares about them. It would be good to prescribe minimum fire standards, perhaps they already exist, but to respect that every unit of a voluntary fire company is equipped with minimum standards so that it can carry out its tasks. Because if we have in RH 3417 vehicles, then the question is, what are those vehicles in? And the greatest wealth is, we have 87 thousand 224 members of voluntary fire companies, one third of which is youth and children. It's the greatest fortune and we have to work on it in the future. And another thing about the leaders of local self-government units, I think that Article 2(2) should make sure that they too are called upon, if necessary, to participate in the coordination of the home security system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53561	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrg, you've already risen, so you'd like to answer, please. Here you go. [[I've raised my hand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53562	Thank you very much. I don't think it's necessary to put special leaders of local self-government because they automatically as chiefs of their headquarters in their field must be involved if something is happening there and there is no need to prescribe it now, they are prescribed it, just as all bodies are therefore mentioned in Article 6 prescribed what they have to do. It's important to connect it into an organized system. I don't know, a few years ago and I said it. About 10 or 15 years ago, I was invited to a civil protection exercise in northern Italy. They're very well organized. I took with me my firefighters and the people who worked in the city at the time, and we went to look at it. So, after that exercise we watched, it turns out that we in one small town and surrounding municipalities actually have everything that they showed there, except of course not that kind of equipment, they had a helicopter and I don't know what other equipment. But if we had all that system, only that system isn't complicated, it's not coordinated, it's not organized into one system. And there's this main problem that needs to be solved, which, I believe, is really this law that begins to solve and moves in that direction to be organized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53563	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Škorić You're pulling. [[Intruder Škorić: I withdraw.]] Mr. Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53564	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, Mr. Hrg. Here's the most part of your exposure I totally agree with. I just wanted to tell you something else. And with the protection and rescue services and the problems that we've all met as leaders of local self-government and non- civil protection problems, maybe there's no place to have and I think it can be arranged that civil protection is better quality, that people who are members of civil protection realize that they're an important part of homeland security, that they actually belong and that those who can solve something. And when a man knows what he's doing and why he's in charge, when he has a desire to help in that work, then it makes sense, then it can get its effect. But what I would also like to point out is that I may not know whether or not it is said, you didn't mention it, either, is to join, or involve hunting societies, hunting associations in the home security system. Since here we are in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, we have an extremely big problem with migrants who pass through our forests every day, the police cannot stop it or fail to stop everything. And there's hardly a hunter who hasn't met a few emigrants who've been sneaking through the woods next to him... and of course he was trying to find a way to inform the police that he would succeed here in some way to bring them in, solve because they are coming deeper and deeper in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here, it's one of the problems that I also think would be good for that system, that part of the community to involve. Because this law will only make full sense if everyone understands, every member, every citizen of Croatia, that he is part of homeland security, give him part of that system that wants to be better, safer for life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53565	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53566	Thank you very much. A colleague Karlić, well in the law mentions the inclusion of all associations that can participate in hunting societies. Absolutely, and in multiple terms, let's be aware of that, absolutely yes. But not only hunting societies, but also other associations that can contribute, which can work. I repeat, it is very important what message is sent from here to Croatian citizens, it is very important that we talk about this law. Do we think that this law is going in the right direction, whether this law offers some homeland security, whether this law allows citizens to get involved in it, how to get involved, and then it needs to be brought down to local levels and thus involve as many people on the ground as possible. Because it's possible today. So local self-government units still have the opportunity to form interventional modes, to form these units, to form various types of gathering and educating citizens is just a matter of whether individual units of local self-government and to ensure at times, by law, that civil protection ensures certain resources that are necessary. Now it's just a matter of whether or not they're going to be spent or they're going to be physically in position or used for that purpose that can be used. And that's how to actually solve this part of inclusion, so all of these systems. But you mentioned this very well for hunting societies. Absolutely her, I think they deserve and maybe a little more of that more significant status inside and because of this part you've been saying, and for everything else. These are still the only civilian, armed forces in Croatia. Let's face it, people have guns and licenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53567	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Zeljko Glasnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53568	Dear colleague Hrg, you mentioned today two words that I did not want to hear for a long time in the Parliament, which is an individual responsibility. No strategy, no plan can be implemented unless there is a legal framework for it. What criminal responsibilities he has, for example, I was there after the fire, of course, I wasn't there when the fires were. You have there... The system, the pumps don't work, there's no water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where these 10 basic principles are by leading one organization. So the first fundamental... is an individual responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other one's a hierarchy. Who's responsible for anything here? Second on the pyromaniac. These are, for example, pedophiles, the same mental set incurably. And what happens to those characters? What kind of punishments are these? What do we know? Individual responsibility has been dragging us around for a long time, and there are some things we haven't solved. Who handed over their weapons to the Chetniks and the Yugoslavs? We have other questions. Why was it never a ammunition factory in Croatia, but... Kragujevac, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's to blame? Some of the heads were sitting in that system. Today there are great democracies, etc. Looks like we're going to have to order ammunition from Uzica down soon, etc. It's me, it's not me, I'm just gonna add this to the end. Mr. Richembergh didn't understand me. I didn't urge the military to take over government, but to teach some people the basic rules of command and command. And that means the foundation of hierarchy, centralised planning, decentralised performance, etc. You can't do that. I don't listen to the same words of coordination, synergy. Where is this coordination and synergy? It seems to me that some people don't know how to work, because we have pure bureaucrats who don't know, every meeting about the army is an action. And when someone comes to me about an army with a problem... He's got two solutions, the story's over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53569	Thank you. Mr. Horg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53570	I hope we never need any larger amounts of ammunition through our history. Unfortunately, there were too many, unfortunately you never know. But this part that you've emphasized is the command system. So in this situation, things like this have to be. He must be clear, you're a soldier, and as such you speak. So civil society is civil society. It's all okay. But there is no democracy in these situations. In situations like this, you simply have to know who's responsible and who can call on responsibility anyone who's in a chain and you're absolutely right. And that law should absolutely be laid down, to make sure that everyone who is there for whom the responsibility is known to have responsibility and to know what sanctions they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53571	Thank you very much. Now we're going to continue the club debate. Mr. Miroslav Tudjman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. Let a few words first take place about yourself, what preceded the adoption of this law. Since 2000, we have de facto fragmenting of this system since then, laws have been passed on certain components independently of one law, regardless of the other. So de facto that system is not complete and when we say fragmentary we don't think that some segments of that system are fragmented. However, the result is that certain segments such as firefighting, fire squadrons of the canaders, such as the Mountain Rescue Service to the limit, were exhausted to do their job, but there was no synergy, the integration of a coherent action. And that's what this law wants to make possible, it wants to create this one such system. On the other hand, it is obvious from the logic of the state organisation and the functioning of the state that such a law could not have preceded the National Security Strategy that we recently adopted. What you see from these discussions today is actually one dilemma that is before a chicken or an egg, so whether it was meant to define the whole system, all its components, what kind of interrelationships, or going step by step so that we gradually get through one rational approach to this law. So it seems to me that it's a good thing that went the other way, that we got a short bill with a small number of articles that have the task of defining what it is to do to get a rational, efficient and home security system. The objectives are very precise. It is said that there is a need to ensure a rational and effective coordinated use of all existing potentials, their ability to reduce and eliminate safety risks. Furthermore, the task under this law is to strengthen the function of governance in emergency and crisis situations that may be, threaten or threaten national security. But here is an emphasis or including crisis and governance at NATO and the European Union level. Here it might be convenient to warn of one difference that I'm not sure we're all taking enough care of, which is the difference between governance and command. We often replace these two functions, i.e. those two obligations, and then, together with that, we chase what is centralized, which is decentralised without taking care of it. By the way, the army knows quite well the difference between governance and command. Furthermore, this law stipulates that systematic and coordinated development of existing and new capabilities should be ensured. The minister here mentioned ships that are from customs, coastal protection it. which we have in four, five places. But take it, you have something that is equally important at the present time, and it is a question of cyber crime, cyber security, something that in these five years participating in the work of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security I did not get a clear answer whether it exists or does not exist, i.e. it is claimed that everyone is doing it, and when you ask what, where, when, how, then the answer is very foggy. Therefore, this law obliges that this, or similar segments that we do not have, or that are in formation, to be entrusted to someone and to define the responsibility to build such segments of the system. Furthermore, the task is to ensure the regular production of strategic documents of importance for national security. Unfortunately, we don't have enough of these documents. Certain segments of the system make these documents, but there is no coordination within it. Accordingly, a clear thing to impose, in order to be able to obtain such documents that will be consistent with each other, that is, by relying on other segments, we must have a unique methodology of evaluation and ranking and safety risks for national security but also defined priorities as to how to deal with it. The key seems to me to be the one that we should mention here in this which is a lot of misunderstandings if I can interpret it that way, and in today's debate on whether or not to change the competences of individual members of Homeland Security. Therefore, it is obvious that it has gone one step at a time, but that these, the basic competence of individual components will not change. But the obligations of cooperation and coordination with others will change. And in that sense, when it is said that it is necessary to ensure full and harmonised implementation of the rules, etc. Then this means that these laws should be developed and that they should in some way be harmonised not only in the implementation of security and security itself, but also in the case of parliamentary oversight of the entire system. Because I think that it has been said here several times on one side of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security gives opinions, optional opinions on the appointment of some, but not on the resolution of certain leaders of these national security constituents, but not others, although it would be logical for this leprosy to expand. That should also change with this system. There's been a lot of controversy here and talk about national security, pardon civil protection, in the system of national security, so some of them are decided for, others are against. But here you have another component that emphasizes itself, which is that things are becoming more and more private today, and civil society becomes a component of national security even according to European standards, some infrastructure is no longer guarded by the police or the military, but by the security firm, and then it's a whole other relationship and legal, and if you want, mental, financial and security. What is therefore, these are the tasks defined in this 5th article of this final bill to get one and an effective rational system. Now, not what was said whether Homeland Security, so one part cannot be identified emotionally with national obligations and security, other clubs have no difference between that or no problems. I think that the Semantic difference is not only a matter of synonyms but also an emphasis that is no longer the concept of national security that we inherit from the 19th and 20th centuries where the military, police, reporting services are the cornerstone of national security, but that the shift towards the civil and private sectors on the one hand is more and more, on the other hand, that it is a beauty that under national security we today involve from one side of international security, regional security, national security and personal security. And in that sense, there is no reason for this law, or obligations that follow from this law, to be taken into consideration by all this beauty. You can see for yourself that both in these provisions of this law and in expectations, when it comes to crisis situations, then it involves and talks about crises both at NATO and EU level, and therefore the whole leprosy is included. What is the focus and what is somehow the only rational way out or the solution to reach one systematic approach to national security is this coordination for the Homeland Security System and on one side is the centre of gravity and the greatest responsibility lies on it. We see that some objections can then be made to a certain concentration in a small number of individuals or a small number of persons, but if we take into account the tasks of this law by defining with everything I have previously listed, with one of the first tasks that after this law, within 30 days should be adopted by the Rules of Procedure on the operation of co-ordination for Homeland Security, then it is clear that given the difference between governance and commanding that these some fears which are the reminisce of some previous totalitarian systems, there is simply no basis behind them. Especially since we still have all the dimensions here that today seems to have not been a word or enough, which is that coordination needs to be developed yearly plans for the entire national security system, i.e. Homeland Security. This development of annual work plans, we in the '90s, had until the end of the '90s and annual work plans where all the reporting and security services or services had an obligation to prepare these work plans. I know how difficult this job is, and by doing so, if in a year, two days it succeeds in getting it up and doing quality work, this whole system will be far more transparent for Parliament in some way, a view but also more effective in its practice or reality. On the other hand, the central authority is not a coordination but is the National Security Council. And that way the whole thing rises to a whole other level, it's no longer just a matter of executive authorities, but when you have, you have to come up with annual plans, then you have a projection of those risks that you have to face. If well planned as a rule, we can be happy and satisfied if it is 80% of the risks and conflicts envisaged, you always have that 20% which is not possible to predict because it is simply a risk, the crisis is an integral part of life, from individuals to countries and Europe and the EU... In that sense, this dimension of the law should be taken into account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing that has already been said here should only be repeated, apparently some components should be installed, accepted by amendments that both the Croatian Fire Community and the Red Cross and the Mountain Rescue Service should be included in the law as constituent components of Homeland Security. It is clear that not because of party commitment, but because of access and logic and seriousness that this law is prepared to support and support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53573	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Mr. Tomislav Lipošak, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53574	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Tudjman, I will only briefly refer to your argument and mentioning the role and importance of coordination for the Homeland Security System. We have had the opportunity to see recent events, especially when it comes to floods in the Ogulin region, what is really the importance of coordination and joint action of all those involved, all systems and all services. Without the synergy of the military, police, firefighters, units of local, regional self-government, all those associations and organizations of the Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Cross, and even hunting associations that were very active and we have already mentioned them today, there is neither a quality response to threats nor a quality and timely solution. Only by co-ordination and efficient use of resources, their actual combined use can make significant shifts in this system. Believe me, all the services, all the organizations that are in the field, always at these times of crisis do their best to put in superhuman efforts. However, this very legislative proposal regulates their coordinated action, which, unquestionably, will have an even more flexible and synchronised activity of these services and, of course, people and organisations from the field welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53575	Answer, Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see the question of coordination is one dimension. However, there is something that assumes that is not necessarily contained in this principle of coordination, which is the time of response to the crisis. And that response time must also be resolved with these Rules of Procedures or the obligations of certain segments of that system because it must know who, who is responsible and who can make the decision without having to hold meetings, meetings, consultations before, since, not necessarily, you do not always, but very often have such a situation that you have to make a decision within a few minutes, for example by Minister Krstičević whether to tear down a wall or dig a channel and do some minor damage to prevent greater damage. In this sense, the whole system must also be legally defined, because if someone decides that something has to be brought down to save something else, in which case it must be known who will make the financial, conflict of such decisions. So in addition to this coordination, we must have this very precise responsibilities of some people given the positions they are taking throughout the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53577	We are waiting for Mr. Klisovic to reach his place because now he has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53578	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have one question and one brief comment. The question is dr. Tudjman, did I understand that you said that the basis of this Law on the Homeland Security System would then change other laws and comply with them that regulate competences, powers, relations, procedures concerning other state bodies covered by the Homeland Security System? Now, that's what I wanted to confirm if that's the case. And secondly, as for the notion of national or homeland security, you are right that the notion of national security today is much wider than that of the 19th century, but the concept of national security continues to be used. The notion of homeland security de facto introduces Americans as something new after the 9/11 attack, a terrorist attack on America when they also establish a new Ministry of Homeland Security as one new body and determines the authority and relationship of the ministry to other US government bodies. But it should be said that in their system, for example, the intelligence community, the CIA, etc., is not subordinated to the Ministry of Homeland Security and is actually outside that system of homeland security and is part of the U.S. national security system of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53579	Thank you very much. Mr. Tudjman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53580	As far as this part of national security or homeland security is concerned, it is clear that a number of countries, democratically developed countries, have kept the concept of national security simply because they have a long tradition of these institutions, a elaborate system that manages the system, how it develops and what competences they are. So they didn't have to change the name or structure of the whole system for themselves. You yourself said that the United States was going to change that system by having their experience again as a pattern for our behavior or understanding. After September 11, 2001, they did not go to replace all those who, who led these institutions from the CIA, the NSA, etc., but first did an analysis and only after 2 years when they brought in this new concept then sought people who could fit these new patterns of behavior. There's a clear system, that, the ministry or whatever you call it, the Homeland Security Agency, and it doesn't in itself subsume the entire intelligence system. But there is what I said about managing the system, or the reporting community, that is, the American community is required to give the entire system the same as there has been a turn in operation and their State Department where the de facto and reporting system today is subordinated to the State Department when it comes to information, media operations that were otherwise conducted on its own before the CIA or by some other agency. So here,...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53581	Thank you very much, Mr. Tudjman. I'd listen to you more because it's very interesting but. Mr. Klisovic, please have a word on behalf of the SDP Club, no it is an individual debate. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, and I'm not going to repeat the debate that I had there and the arguments, and especially, because here, I don't have a meeting in two hours, and I didn't count on the debate to be so long. I'd just like to send two messages myself, uh, here's the minister who's in charge of this topic. One is this law, which he has proposed, which is well focused on crisis management issues. And that's good, because it was an undefined part of our security system to the end. And in that sense, I support it. But what I also don't think is missing in our security system, one like this part about crisis management, it's so-called. Early alert system or... And then I would pray that the same attention and energy are now concentrated here, so that one system is also developed and imported into the entire system of homeland security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because without it, we're going to have one missing link in that whole chain of important elements again. So that's the first thing and the second thing, now that we've brought national security strategies, when we've passed this law, when we've passed legal regulations, it wouldn't be good if it's just a dead letter on paper, or if we wait for a crisis like we had, I don't know during the summer, a fire or a flood or something else, to test, see, etc. It's just that it's easy to stick to the real implementation of these documents, which is why we have in the strategy that the Assembly will report every couple of years or year every year, I think even about the implementation, the primitive implementation, because it's the key to everything, while the state bodies are coming together with their new obligations, it'll take time to start stalking them as soon as possible. It is not enough just to bring legal regulation or strategy. Simply now, the concentration of all efforts must go to the implementation and preparation of all the persons and institutions involved, to understand the philosophy of the new national security strategy, to understand the philosophy of the new National Security System Act and to begin to contribute to it, not waiting for someone to always instruct them from the top. Because neither the diameter nor the coordinator of this coordination that is set up can take care of every detail, they can't make decisions about every little thing, so there's an entire structure underneath them, which should, however, alert them in cases where they have to decide something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53583	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's up now, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53584	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, secretaries, assistants, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here we have the Final Proposal for the Law on the Homeland Security System before us. In fact, one law that I'm with these specifics... as a fundamental part of its provisions immediately and stresses all that was to be contained in these 2 articles, essentially in this law it was to be summarised in one sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything we have in Croatia today, all bodies, all institutions, everything from kindergarten to retirement homes, everything should be under national security. And it should all be put under one hat. Homeland security is something sacred, something that should guarantee, security, stability, progress and the future and survival of our people in this area, especially young people, and the comparison and development of our society. With this law and regulation that basically implements as my predecessors have said everything we have today, we should include in essence, what's most important, and that's every single person. Without an individual who doesn't feel the country, a safe country, and doesn't feel safe in it, we'll certainly never reach one civilization that we all work together to, and unfortunately everything... That's the point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're even going back a lot. Therefore, this law includes everything except essentially through Article 7. 12 I will make an amendment with my colleague, Zagor, to include both the fire community and the regional and regional, regional, regional and local self-government as essential factors of homeland security. I believe when you look at the Prime Minister's amendment, you'll see if it makes sense and we'll talk about it. They haven't delivered it yet, and when they deliver it to you, I believe you'll appreciate what you've shown for yourself, both the fire departments and the local self-government. From local committees of local self-government, regional self-government, there must be co-ordination, this is mentioned in this law. And most of all, it has to be a drill, it has to be a command line, or we're going to say hierarchically and vertically and horizontally to know who's government and who's in charge. Who's basically in charge at this point? Standard operating procedures, bodies, everything that needs to have one law here and I expect that Homeland, national security will essentially achieve its goal of reacting to what is described by this law, and that is the crisis, meaning defined and the risk, and to threats, to national security, that there will be much better, much more timely. Not as there have been cases of fires in Split, where the citizens of the association and individuals reacted to where the system was a tromium, slower not because we don't have trained firefighters, but simply there was no coordination that this law provided for here. I am mostly interested in security, meaning the sovereign Republic of Croatia, to be sovereign. That means we're protecting what we have. By this law, these bodies are connected. But again we come to what we might have and these are the most significant resources each country has, which is air, clean air, environment, food. It means agricultural and food production, it's water and it's energy. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have complaints about all the issues, these four issues that are crucial at the moment in terms of security, stability, and I will start again from what hurts me the most, and that is water. Water as a basic resource for life. And indeed once again mentioning my Dalmatia, the entire Republic of Croatia, that I am saddened by the behaviour of government members, the inconclusiveness of government members and in this House the main reaction of Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Martina Dalic to my question about the harmfulness of the project thermal power plant on Peru from which Cetina, from which water is now used over half a million people, and in the future the entire Dalmatia. Simply Jadro is already poisoned and is pushed into Lečevac, Dalmatian Zagora and waste, so all of Dalmatia will be threatened because it is the purest source of drinking water, the largest pool of drinking water and I am saddened by those who should protect in the government and who should answer to us parliamentarians we do not get answers except attack on specific issues. It's the same with your energy. Energy as a key resource, there would be a building of one, a thousand megawatts and the whole of Croatia produces 4000 megawatts and slightly more 25% would go into private hands to... So is the thermal power plant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He'd be the controller of the entire energy system, controlling the private price. Therefore, there is no security until we protect these four resources of water, air, food and energy. Until we protect it, and mostly I repeat food once again, while we are, our people will leave because we simply don't give them the impression of fighting these stakeholders working on the harm of Croatian citizens or the coalition partner of the CNS, which he signed in the SDP government that the wind-electric renewable energy source, but the subsidies to naturally go to foreigners, billions of kunas in foreign pockets. It's the same case with telecommunications. We have telecommunications, it's very important for security in foreign hands. What our parents paid for went into foreign hands, and your relationships are in crisis situations, essentially blood flow, in crisis situations that can be of greater proportion. He won't be in these floods, but to a greater extent, telecommunications is the key to the entire management of the system. Without telecommunications, we don't have to go back to pigeon writers or because of what we've given to foreigners who draw profits, who invest in Montenegro, or we'll raise pigeon writers in case they block us. Therefore, we have the meaning of the Croatian state, we have the Homeland War that was injured, which has been dressed, which, unfortunately, since 2000 has been demoted to pain. Let us only remember the words that such criminals as Croatian generals were persecuted in The Hague by those sentences to locate, arrest, transfer, process the most embarrassing message in the Croatian state. The person still manages the system, still that person is the leader of Andrej Plenkovic. We don't, so we don't hold on to the dignity of the people who gave the most. These are mostly commanders like among them and Damir Krstičević, these are the people who led the troops, but still in the shadows are the same people who muddled the Homeland War and only in the Homeland War can we build, only in Homeland, in the community. No one asked who was the son of the Ustasha, who was the son of the Partisans. We were all in the Homeland War together, and I was under 19, just over 18 and someone older. No one asked anyone, but together in the trench we defended the Croatian state. The Homeland War was also mutilated while Croatia was the most robbed, while Jozo Petrovic helped INA Slavko Linic, after Sanader, later Karamark and such figures Valentic, Greguric. All of these individuals who have been following the economic system have been captured as the Homeland War humbled itself. I expect this law to be passed. We will accept it, welcome it, and that this unique Homeland Security Act will be above the political law and that all remarks, this is a second reading, my amendments if they are not accepted, I believe that they can be accepted, that it will be an incentive to implement with all bodies from the local board to the state, to kindergarten, to the largest institution to be unique in preserving our Croatia and to preserve those spaces to be full of life and not empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53585	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53586	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, I could say in principle, given that the Honorable Vice President of the Government is a soldier and a soldier is proposing this law. The law is this yet soft as a real military law. Of course it's not, I guess that's the way it's supposed to be. But what you've warned about is what happens in Croatian society, and that's the form of saying it might sound too harshly special war, but war information is the same kind of war. We had a report here by HACOM where HACOM leaders claimed that with internet connections in the Republic of Croatia, all is well, as traffic increases. However, traffic is increasing because the better resolutions, because many young people who download films now need more data to be downloaded, and it does not match the truth that we have developed a better network, the three governments have been struggling to make money from the EU, to make a new highway optical network, and this is what HACOM leaders are putting... These are very important things that we need to take care of, and I agree with you, constitutional categories that we have protection and water and other natural resources must be a priority for both the end and the work of this coordination for the national security system, and for once again, I stress that it is very important that the leaders of the local self-government units in certain issues are invited to meet this coordination, as I understand it will be every three months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Often this body will meet and there are specific issues in many parts of the Republic of Croatia that would be well considered in these coordinations, to endanger all possible potential threats, to prevent potential threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53587	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53588	I'll start at the end, so food, water, air, energy. For an independent, sovereign state of Croatia, these are 4 resources that are very important in addition to relationships or telecommunications. And of course we have a problem today that the owner of our telecommunications paid by our parents, one of you older, manages a stranger and doesn't pay even the right to service. And with the amendment when we gave here to charge televised service operators and not only is it the owner of the land, but the one who manages the property, it went through the whole procedure until the prime minister met with HT's direct on the night before the law was passed and it was deleted. And the legal procedure passed, the amendment, came to an end, and it was erased overnight and these are damages to the vast Croatian society. And so on all kinds of questions. They put everything in foreign hands, more energy, this little water, so here's the source of Cetina in the Government of Zoran Milanovic, you know how much on the government's rent, 5,000 kuna per month, the source of water. For 5 grand a month. For 37 seconds there was a debate at the Government on the source of drinking water that we put into the hands of a stranger, which is a resource and potential that could be used and charged to develop Homeland Security. Then there wouldn't be any conversation here if we had the resources for Homeland Security, if we had firemen, if we had civil protection. It's just that when we handed everything over our strategic resources into foreign hands, that's where independence is. In our waters, foreign ships don't have an economic belt, we haven't declared it an exclusive economic belt. So in our waters of 3 billion kuna, fish hunt foreign fishing fleets, i.e. ships. We didn't protect anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53589	Thank you very much. Mr. Angelko Uncle, he's gone. Mr. Petar Škorić, he's gone. Mr. Ante Sanader, he's gone. I give my word to the promoter, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister, Mr Krstičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53590	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for the constructive debate, we had here you see all morning support, we see that the law has great support, a lot of clubs, a lot of representatives and contributions, establishment and development of the Homeland Security System. We have also seen clearly in this debate today different opinions on what is the value of our democratic society. I would like to point out once again what is very important that the Republic of Croatia in response to new security threats, threats, risks needs a security partnership from which a system of homeland security that rests on the principles of respect for human rights, human solidarity, then tolerance, dialogue and what we have seen and seen in our home security system will include both firefighters and the Red Cross and the Mountain Rescue Service, I think we need this synergy of all to deal with all these threats and risks faced by every modern society, including Croatian society. It is precisely the adoption of laws in the Homeland Security System that is the first step towards achieving the objective of developing the Homeland Security System where the adoption of the law system is nominally and formally established. This law defines a framework for the development of this system, the proposed law does not involve new administrative structures and what is very important, the sudden radical changes that could disrupt the functioning of what we have as well as the increase in budgets. So all that's good, we're here, we're gonna keep it, but what we think, what we saw was that we should upgrade, then we're gonna upgrade it so we can deal with all these threats and risks better and better. The law opens the possibility for a systematic, coherent approach to the development of existing and new missing abilities. And we've seen that we need some abilities, new abilities especially in relation to these new risks and threats. And what is very important, rational and effective use. The law not only opens up the possibility but also commits to the launch of a process that will contribute to the construction and strengthening of such a system. So each of the components of the system should work on it to make it work in that part, so everyone needs to be improved and upgraded. The basic benefit of establishing a development system of Homeland Security, and this is a priority, it is more efficient management in crisis situations. These crisis situations if they happen to us then we must react to the system and then we must have these crisis situations either have a series of commands, standard operational procedures and this crisis management manual. And I believe it is through this management that what is important is that a clearer setting of strategic guidelines is a complex consideration of all national relevant security threats and risks, and a common decision-making approach to security threats and risks. Then, avoiding duplication of business, waste of resources, or prevention, failure to respond to threats or risks due to possible vaguely defined responsibilities, the responsibilities of individual state bodies. By providing competent decision-makers in ministries and other state bodies with timely and relevant intelligence products, information, analysis, assessment and assessment of safety risks. Building on the security system on the proactive role of the state, citizens, NGOs, public enterprises, private companies and other stakeholders. I must stress that the establishment of a home security system is a lasting, dynamic process whose dynamics will be aligned with changes in the security environment and the needs of achieving national interests. And this law is the first time we've created a framework for its normisation and procedure. So for the first time, we define exactly the system, who makes up the system, and what is now waiting for us all to do a lot of work in this process so that we can, I say, deal more easily and better with all the security situations that we can face. And here's to the end of what I would like, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I suggest you support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Homeland Security System. I think he's good and he's giving us a good framework for work. I call on you to show consensus, in the adoption of this law it seems to me that he might be because for me, and I believe for all of us that national security is a supersede issue and security and the Republic of Croatia and all of our citizens, I think that should be our absolute priority. Here's another thank you to everyone who participated today in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53591	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mr. Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53592	Thank you very much, Mr. Krsticevic. In your debate during the day you said one thing and I'll quote, when you answered me you said you didn't want a military deadline, you didn't serve, therefore it's your position and it's your right and it's your relationship as a representative to Croatia. Now, please explain to me, what is this attitude towards Croatia of all those who have not served military service in the Republic of Croatia, and what makes it negative for you, and why does this indicate the relationship of these people to Croatia as less valuable than those who served the military deadline? And are you also applying this to your head of government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, who avoided serving a military term and who observed all of this from a safe distance in the '90s? One more thing, given that you are an honest man and that what you said is a lie I expect here in the Croatian Parliament an apology from you because I did serve in the Croatian Army and if you didn't know that information, if you said it wrongly, if you were misinformed and you didn't know the exact thing I expect you to apologize here now because I served in the Croatian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53593	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53594	Honorable and esteemed representative Maras, regarding this part of yours now ending. I think the Homeland Security Act is above all of us and that the safety of Croatia is above all of us and that it is also above you as a parliamentary representative and above me as a minister. And I think today is a real priority. I'm glad we were all in that position together. You've come forward the same way, and you've made your point about combat aviation, not talking about the Law on the Homeland Security System, but your position on the issue of the Air Force, and you said you didn't want to do it. Then on that one of yours, I said I was glad I heard that attitude and I told that story that you were right about the military deadline. Yes, I've been informed that you served a military term and I congratulate you and I'm glad you served your military time. And as a man, as a man, I apologize to you in this Croatian Assembly. And I'm glad to hear it again, I repeat, that you served a military term. Well done. And I respect those other people who aren't. And it wasn't my intention either, so I apologized. You know that many times you spoke of Croatian soldiers and me personally in a bad way. Many times about the Croatian Army and me personally but for this claim here again we all go together to deal with the security system, build a security system and show all together responsibility for this system. I think that's what the whole story would be. And as a man, one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53595	I think we've all been more than clear. And on that behalf, I'm giving a 20-minute break to wait, because it ended this debate too quickly, to wait for the applicants,... Please, please, they were all very clear, and in order to wait for the applicants to report the next 2. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So now it's 14.15, let's go to 14.40. It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53596	We now move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Homeland Security, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 149. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted the amendment in accordance with Article. 199. The Rules of Procedure and the amendment tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 87 votes, we have decided to conduct a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to explain the amendment with us is the respected Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53597	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The proposed amendment specifically states that units of local and regional self-government may be engaged as bodies of the Homeland Security System and, in accordance with their tasks and obligations under the Civil Protection System Act, which fall within the scope of the task of the Homeland Security System activities. Article 8 of that Law also lists units of local and regional self-government as participants implementing measures and activities in the civil protection system. Articles 16, 17, 18 and 19. The Civil Protection System Act shall specify the obligations and tasks that units of local and regional (regional) self-government have under the Civil Protection System, while Article 17 of that Act accurately defines the tasks carried out by representative bodies on the proposal of the Executive Body of the units of local and regional or regional self-government. The Executive Body of Local Self-Government Units and the Executive Body of Local and Regional Self-Government Units. Therefore, the units of local and regional self-government are also defined in Article 7(2) of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53598	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. In accordance with Article 199(2), only representatives of the representatives of the clubs of the representatives may participate in the debate. I see a colleague called Bully, I assume, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Turn off your colleague Orepic, I don't know why you're involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, this is exactly the kind of amendment that I and my colleague, Žagar, have given to involve local and regional self-government in the Homeland Security system because it was illogical to include a number of associations, civil, homeland without being a local self-government that has both certain and resources and organizations and, of course, that the technical possibilities of the Homeland Security Act should also be adapted. In the amendment that we cited, I see that it is similar, which is why the fire community was not introduced, i.e. Firemen as a very important aspect of Homeland Security. And the firemen and the fire department, or you'll accept it later in the amendment, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53600	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53601	I would only ask that Article 199, paragraph 2 be taken into account. Rules of Procedure under which amendments can only be discussed by representatives of clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53602	Well, that was on behalf of the club... No, it's clear, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If not, I'll conclude the debate and put the amendments to the government to vote, please let's vote. I find that the amendment has received most of the votes, 94 for, 1 abstention and 9 against, so we have accepted the amendment of the government and it becomes an integral part of the final bill. We are now moving to vote on the other amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Ante Sanader and MPs Miro Bulj and Tomislav Žagar. I ask the Secretary of State to be read first on the amendments to the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53603	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53604	They become an integral part of the law. Now they're going to amend the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53605	It's an amendment to Article three, it's accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53606	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53607	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53608	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53609	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53610	And this amendment becomes an integral part of the law. We are now moving on to the amendments of MPs Mira Bulj and Tomislav Zhagar. We have here three amendments seem to me, so please first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53611	The first amendment to Article 7 shall apply. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is covered in this form by the amendment of Mr Ante Sanader, which is accepted as well as by the proposed amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53612	Thank you. Here's my colleague Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53613	Col. Ivić, of course, that our amendment, which was adopted entirely except for the firefighters and the fire community, which you could adopt on behalf of the government, but it's obviously nicer to hear it as an amendment to the president of the fire community which, at the very least, is not correct according to this whole story, was at least to be accepted by the government so that the story would be combined with the regional, local and fire community because we had it in the amendment, but, behold, it should be emphasized that something Ante Sanader did for the fire department, and I would like more to have done so in our Dalmatia that was forgotten about the fire department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53614	What, are you looking for a vote or what? Besides blinking, are you asking for a vote or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53615	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53616	You're looking for a vote, okay. This amendment is not accepted by the Government, so I ask you to vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to Amendment No. 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53617	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is in this form covered by the amendment of representatives at the Croatian Parliament of Ante Sanader to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53618	Comrade Sagar, here you go. You need to turn yourself off, someone's turned on again. Let's turn off yours and try to turn it back on. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53619	Now it's working, yeah. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. So I am pleased that the amendment of my fellow Sanader has been accepted. In the spirit of this amendment, this was good, we added to include the chief fire commander, I think that would be important. However, given that the Croatian Fire Community is included in the proposal, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53620	Thank you. Well, then let's go to the third amendment. Please, colleague Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53621	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason why it is proposed to cover Article 14(4). The final proposal of the Law on the Homeland Security System, which provides for the participation of representatives of other bodies responsible for the areas under discussion, at coordination meetings for the Homeland Security System.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53622	Thank you. It's obvious, Comrade Bull, here you go. Thank you, fellow Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53623	So, fellow Ivić, secretary of the Department of Defence, I believe that local and regional leaders, local self-government are very important in this aspect and that they participate in meetings if they are in this area, so there is a threat, a crisis or any security that is threatened. I think it's very important, it's very important because it's visible and the latest developments in the fire in Dalmatia, the simple system was not co-ordinated, neither local self-government nor co-ordination nor communication. The honor of the firemen who defended it, indeed thank them, especially the citizens who self-organized and stopped even worse damage, we must pray to God that people have accepted it as their commitment, put their lives at risk in order to preserve their property. But without the head of local self-government and regional self-government to be in meetings, if that territory is local self-government in the county, then I don't know why this law. So they have certain technical options, they have companies that have technical, waterway, cleanliness, which have the ability to react in the best and fastest possible way at a given time. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53624	Please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, and then we will go to the vote on the final proposal for a Code on the Homeland Security System. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 95 for, 2 abstentions and 25 against the passed Act on the Homeland Security System, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53625	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.40 HOURS]] Do you mind if we unify these two discussions? There isn't. The applicant or applicant shall be the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, pursuant to Article 16. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The debate on both points was conducted by 2 committees, the Committee on Human Rights and the Legal National Minority, one committee, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the Government delivered its opinion. Does the applicant, Mr. Luka Bogdan, deputy director of the National Foundation, want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53626	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. There is an annual work report for 2015 and 2016 for the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The report contains a review of work, achievements, news and everything we did in 2015 and 2016. The report also contains one set of exhaustive parts of the financial report showing all the financial support the National Foundation has granted over the past years. The National Foundation for Civil Society Development is an intermediate body of 2 levels, for the use of the European Social Fund and is also an implementing body for European Economic Area Funds and the Kingdom of Norway. The report on the support granted is also contained in this year's financial report. As for 2015, we granted 449 support and in 2016. 394 financial support. In 2015 this amounted to 47 million 321 thousand 473 kuna and in 2016 42 million 824 thousand and 350 kuna. The indicators are very interesting in 2015, we had 24835 volunteers, who did over a million and 117 thousand volunteer hours, while in 2016 we had 16600 volunteers and 622000 volunteer hours. Through our financial support in 2015, 601 persons were financed pay through support and in 2016. 826 people. As for 2015, we had 8 centres of knowledge, these are roof organizations that receive continuous assistance, and in 2016 we expanded in 2017 to the 9th Center of Knowledge. 75 approved institutional support has been allocated for 2015 and 2016 in one and two years. These are the means of supporting the stabilisation and development of the civil society organisation. I would like to point out that during 2015, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and the Ministry of Croatian Defence, we separated support for persons with disabilities, and support for associations came from the Homeland War. We believe that this is extremely important, that we have private tenders for them, to further stabilise and help their work. As far as 2015 and 2016 are concerned, all the counties were drowned. So there's no county in which no financial support is granted. What is extremely important to us is to keep an eye on regional development and also to cover it. In 2015 we modernised the work of the foundation, through the creation of a line of application tools means our financial support, financial support hr, thus allowing organisations to digitally submit their applications. Here, I would also like to tell you that last year has been extremely challenging for us, in the year in which the funding for the work of the national foundation has been reduced. They reduced to 51% by applying the regulation on... and the trust has provided 20% of the financial support to compensate for these cuts from own reserves, more specifically from the financial assets of the trust. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything that has been in the past year has been overcome, all the challenges, civil society organisations have not been questioned by their work, and we continue to continue during and we will not essentially go towards endangering it, but will be careful to ensure continued financial monitoring of the work of the civil society organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53627	Mr. Bull, did you give the line or what? Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53628	Thank you very much. There's one quick question and a short answer. To list your donations, which associations, key, the most funds have gone. I am interested in it for the public, because it appears in public, here is the report financially in 2015 and 2016 which associations have gone to most of the money, just so we know, because it is important in the reports that the public knows who and by what criteria and who decides which body within your foundation decides it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53629	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53630	I thank you, Representative Bulj. Here, as for the organization of civil society that received the most support, these are our knowledge centres that you have detailed specifications on page 110, they are tax-listed. It had meanings in 2015 and 2016. Eight centers of knowledge. These are organisations that have long-term financial support and the maximum support that has been approved refers to the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities where 784 thousand kunas were granted and 549 thousand kunas were approved. It means page 110, investment in the knowledge centre for social development. As for who makes the decision, the knowledge centres were selected on the basis of a public tender where an independent commission was appointed, which assessed all applications. And they now have a five-year-old, it happened in 2014 and they have a five-year financing contract. Here, I hope I've answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53631	Thank you very much. Mr. Vesligaj on behalf of the SDP club. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Sincic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. He's gone. Mr. Kresho Beljak, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, not a pardon, the HSS. He's gone. Did you say something to me? ... He's giving up Mr. Bull. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ms Ljubica Lukacic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53632	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Director of the National Foundation, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's what I want to say about the 2015 report, except for the 449 support that is extremely important for civil society organisations. It's extremely important that they are, that's what I have to say which is extremely important to me that alliances of persons with disabilities become the 8th Center of Knowledge. That kind of made it easier for them to say survival, since, as you said before, they have a 5-year contract for their systematic funding. So as far as the alliance is concerned, they are now in a more favourable position. As regards the funds that have been reduced, so in 2016 we see that this also reflected the support that was 3067 in the total amount of, slightly more than 42 million kuna. However, I am pleased that this reduction in resources did not affect any major layoff of civil society associations employees and that all projects that were planned for civil society organisations were carried out more or less. I have to look briefly at civil society associations here, so now I'm talking about associations and not alliances because I noticed that in 2015 some of them had been abolished institutional funding, which means, that is, a one-year break has happened, but for persons with disabilities, it means a lot. Associations of disabled persons do not have any financial means of membership of their members, since we know that members of persons with disabilities have no more or less resources than they do for a decent life. Therefore, they find it extremely difficult to pay membership fees to their parent associations. So the funds they receive through the National Foundation for Institutional Finance are extremely important to them. It happens in nature that they employ a number of people, as planned in a specific project and after 3 years when these people have to fire a large number of members of these associations, they remain without some systematic support. I sincerely hope and want to commend first of all this part that you did in 2016 that you have opened a special competition for the organisation of persons with disabilities. So it seems to me that this has contributed, however, I would say even a slightly larger number of people with disabilities who have received support, so I believe that they will continue to be considered to fund disabled persons systematically. The proposal is to pass a law on the financing of persons with disabilities associations so that these associations truly have systematic support since they have no other means to survive because here, just these days, many associations and alliances are talking to me about it because of the lack of funds some of them are also about to be shut down. I believe that's not going to happen and that we're going to find some common way to bridge these problems. I am extremely pleased that the National Foundation really encourages the work of civil society and this is also seen in the 2015 report, as well as in the 2016 reports. Especially as I said, which was in 2016, the funds were reduced and the National Foundation approved 20% more funds so that all projects could be implemented. I believe that the National Foundation will continue with quality work and encourage civil society organisations to work as actively and quality as possible, as well as volunteers, we have seen, and you yourself have noted in your opening presentation that a large number of volunteers are involved in the work. So I think that the work of the National Foundation was in my personal opinion somehow better in 2016 and I believe that it will continue to make you a step in order to make the report for 2017 when we discuss it even better and better quality indicators. The HDZ Club will take note of the report for 2015 and support the 2016 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53633	Thank you very much, very interesting. Mr. Djakic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lukačić, you have beautifully described everything there is in the report, I would only add that the National Foundation for Civil Society Development has also been able to fund and 16 association defenders from the Homeland War, that they are now on support and that they are using funding from the National Foundation and thus can express satisfaction with how the funding of these populations of people associated through various defence associations is also institutionally supported. I believe that without them many would not survive as you have said, and functionality would be questionable employees who work and care for defenders and victims, and so I wish that we would encourage in the future to find even more resources in the budget for the development of civil society so that associations from the Homeland War could also use some of the funds that were intended for them. There's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53635	Replication response, Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53636	Dear Djakić, here is a thank you for reminding the Croatian defenders' associations, that 16 of them, interestingly, report that 16 associations have shown that they have improved the quality of their work. However, what I am extremely pleased is that Croatian defense organisations have become both here in this year and the ninth knowledge centre, and that is probably something that will encourage them to do better and better quality work, and I believe that through the knowledge centres they will also have systematic funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53637	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53638	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Bogdan and his associates. First of all, I must begin by expressing regret that there is no Miss Cvjetana Plavša Matic, who is also the director of the foundation that she is here defending the work of interest in the past period and I am sorry to see that this one very, very important report has not prompted a little more attention from Croatian representatives, means that as if we have various reports, this is very, very important to me because it is not government organisations and the number of people reported is, I would say of this topic, embarrassingly small. At the beginning, they are associations or what they really should be. We see associations today as a form of self-employment, so if a man sets up an association with two other friends and then applies to some projects and only gets a job instead of opening a craft or j.d.o., d.o.o., he simply starts an association. The association should be an association of citizens, a volunteer association of citizens, for some good idea, to implement a goal, not only today, unfortunately in Croatia, I will say a very, very common self-employment called the Association. As far as these reports are concerned, they are a real state of affairs, but I believe that as such they are not acceptable because money has been shared there for 15 years since the director of Cvetana Plavša Matic was distributed exclusively to associations by some kind of world-class ideological key, not in the way it should be shared. We've got a lot of problems. I'm going to try to scan a few problems like this and get to know my fellow MPs a little bit. We have a double funding problem, or some associations apply themselves first. You know what, I'll tell them later. Later they join together in some alliance of associations, then another alliance of associations, and then these two alliances together, and then these same associations in one three or four ways receive funds. According to some of my analysis is about some 200 of the same people, I said in associations that are ideological in the left liberal, let me liberals forgive a part of the spectrum of political and whose only function is to impose their world-wide view on Croatian society. 200 people I would say de facto in one way or another has 50 million kuna legally, completely legal from the Croatian budget, not to talk about funds that come outside of Soroshe's foundation, money from Norwegian foundations, etc. Furthermore, we have another problem, and these are one permanent partnership with me I will call them private foundations. In particular, it is called a decentralised model in partnership with regional foundations. We have 4 – Regional Foundation for Local Development ZAMAH Zagreb, Foundation for the Development of the local community “Slatica” Osijek, Kajo Dadić Split Foundation and the Foundation for the Encouraging Partnership and Development of the Civil Society of Pula. I'm not going to say that these foundations have done anything wrong, but I don't think it's right that the foundation, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, distributes its money. Now it's order size you have a feeling about about 400, 500 thousand kunas a year to these foundations, and then those without anyone controlling them sharing money further. So they divide into one 20, 30 pieces what they get and finance who knows who. So we just don't have a control model. We've given money to them, and they share that money to whoever they want, so no control whatsoever. We don't control state money. Here I would mention here maybe a little bit specifically, for example, about these associations who get the money. Here you can only do this if you take the 2016 report and the last page. Well, these are your Association for the Promotion of Human Rights and Media Freedoms, the Centre for Peace Studies. You know who this is? Then it says gong. It didn't get much, 315000 kuna but when you turn the other side of GONG got another million kuna, it means otherwise. Then you have some associations that look quite benign as the Centre for Civil Initiatives Poreč, the Zora Association, the Croatian Institute for Local Self-Government, etc. But here's what I'm going to tell you a little bit later about what associations are really about, or what their main occupation is, or what they're doing. For example, the document you get a year, so it's hard for me to say, here from year to year, I even have it on paper, but maybe it's about a million kuna. Here's what's gonna make me right. through the media if I'm wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The document Vesna Terselić, I presume. She, there on that round table in Vukovar, spoke explicitly several times not only there, but in a million places about the Croatian war being a civil war. It's never from her mouth, and when the press talked her into it, she didn't say the concept of the Homeland War. It's about an association that exclusively serves auditism, about spreading the truth about the Homeland War. Comrade Bulj, this is interesting to you, the Document, means Document. So revisionism, so I'm talking civil war. Furthermore, just to show after that round table in Vukovar that took place, the defenders protested. So, Croatian defenders are very sensitive to such an expression just before the appointed lady. Furthermore, we have knowledge centers. That's just before Mr. Bogdan mentioned it. We've got them if I'm not mistaken for those knowledge centers, we've got eight pieces. Is that what I'm saying? And here we have a situation that is your Green Action, GONG, MOST Association, Croatian Youth Network, Association of Cultures, Green Network of Activist Groups, House of Human Rights. It's about some amounts of 300 to 500 thousand kuna, where, year after year, the same association, no matter what they do, gets the funds. And I find that unacceptable. Furthermore, all these programmes which are implemented do not include the number of users of the project. It's just applicable. I'd say projects like this work for clicks and links on Facebook, not for real people, for real people in Croatian society. Millions of kunas exclusively for, so spreading I said some ideologies. It's still a questionable one thing, it's a neutral asset. I know it's about the means that, in fact, they were at some point in the day to someone who didn't realize them. Even though he hasn't realised them to these same associations, the funds are being given next year. Those funds aren't small. It's millions of kunas a year that remain unrealized. We've got the so-called. institutional support. Whoever gets your institutional support, or in a long, long time series, is constantly getting the funds they are, it's hundreds of thousands of kunas. It depends normally from association to association. Centre for Pensions Studies, Babe, Documenta, Forum for Freedom of Education, Centre for Women's Studies. These associations I believe you all recognize, you recognize it as associations I will repeat for the fourth time which are extremely, extremely declared and located in a small part of the political spectrum on the far left. Did you forget about that 43-year-old Josipovic umbrella? Well, these are the associations, these are associations that are explicitly during the campaign, for the presidential election sided with one candidate. The GONG Association when it was a referendum on marriage has explicitly stopped, and it is reportedly an association dealing with vote surveillance and urged citizens to vote against the referendum. And then these associations get money for that kind of action. I don't think that's right. And just a little bit to get past these associations that look like benign, says the Porec Civil Initiative Centre, what do they say? They say, among other things, clerical currents combined with the right government are trying to revive traditional values and demography with fascist trips and strengthen nationalism. We're giving them money. Then we give money it's called the Youth Initiative, I think it's from Petrinja, the gentleman's name is Mario Mažić, he's the only activity he's ever done, it's been taking down plates to Croatian defenders in Jasenovac who's been taken down, and the other one was trying to criminalise the song "Beautiful Are You". Then we have an association "M" says association M also gets... thousands of kunas, it degrades social norms and stereotypes and promotes responsible behaviour with the aim of building a gender-equal inclusive society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there's a nice association called Zora. When you open it, all its programs are LGB equality, ironing inequality, active youth... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53639	I know you have an archive, but we respect those who think differently from us, don't we, Mr. Zekanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53640	Of course, but we won't give our money budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53641	You have two replicas, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53642	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Zekanovic, I would like to point out that it's good that you mentioned some of these associations that it shows that the report shows from the table that they have received an extremely large amount of money. So I said in my presentation, and here I expect, there's a deputy manager here, and I expect that control of the funds paid in some way is better seen in order to know if, in fact, it's being funded. In order not to finance some things or even some projects that it is absolutely certain to say may not be in favour of civil society in the Republic of Croatia. I believe, here's the National Foundation's going to take care of that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53643	Thank you, too. Mr. Zekanovic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53644	Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna use the answer to the replica to just finish thinking about it a little while ago. We also have Mr. Zoran Stevanović, e.g. which reports Croatian clubs due to alleged racist content to the international organisation FARE. So for this gentleman several times Croatian clubs paid very large fines. It's so-called. Umki association. Here he is, a colleague of Sladolev, you are a fan, he is specifically doing the opposite cheerleading movement in Croatia. It's about all the good that that movement carries. Furthermore, the Peace Studies Centre, 6 million kuna a year, gets one way or another. And that is, this Peace Studies Centre has been his main activity lately, not to hold a military pass in Zagreb. Military pass which is a symbol of the victory of the Croatian people in the Homeland War... He said, "Well, maybe we could have friends from the East who resented us a little bit why we're strutting over for winning." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we should cry. Let him pay for keeping the pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53645	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This twisted hatred of impatience for a long time in this House has not been said in a more beautiful tone as you said today. In your individual exposure, you've dealt beautifully with absolutely everything that isn't in your wavelengths. And everything you don't understand and don't admit should not be given Croatian money, and, preferably, to defeat everything that goes on. It almost occurs to me, that lovely saying kills them all so God can sort them out. Comrade Zekanovic, this is a disaster. This is not the way this should be discussed in Parliament. And I called the Bridge Association, and you know what this association does, it's got nothing to do with ideology, it's got to do with helping homeless people, it's been a long time. And he gets the money because they've been doing it for years. And all of us here need to bow down to these people, all of us including you. Because they do what the state doesn't do, and they should do it. Furthermore, some guy, from some association you're attacking, that he's the only one who's been working on taking down the Hos board, so none of the organizations have taken off Hos's, it's your government that you and your hand have been wonderfully giving your diameter. So when you talk about it, think about who did what. And if you want to be so wonderful and strong, a knight and a fighter against all the associations that don't suck at you. There's also a wonderful association that you're in power now that you're in charge of, and I'm inviting you to fight, but you're very good with her boss. I think Zdravko Mamić's name is, and the association's name is Dinamo. You don't mind hundreds of millions of kunas passing through there. But you mind a few hundred thousand kunas because someone is helping the homeless or doing some third things, and the biggest problem with it is that there's no vote for you or that doesn't share your views, which I'm going to end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53647	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Zekanovic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53648	Dear colleague, unlike you, I have not used a word of killing or beating, you have, you have. You'll look at the phonogram, and you'll see. Furthermore, you are, I'm going to use your expressions to just kill and beat up all associations that don't think ideologically like you. Because none of these associations could even reconcile the money you've shared abundantly with associations that suit you ideologically. I'll apologize to the Bridge Association for not calling her. I simply listed it as a winning association, it's institutional support, and one of them is her. But the normal thing is that the work of the homeless is something to praise. But I have to repeat what I said earlier. So it's very interesting that you resent others exactly what you do. You take away the right of some to apply, to get the money, and when they call you, which is the fact, it's true what Mr. Bulj would say that's a fact. And when you're called, then it doesn't suit you. Well, my men, find me and one association that deals and about that activity as the above-mentioned association, I don't know, I'm taking you to lunch. But you won't find it. And as for this Mr. Maria Maric, who is, the Hos board stands. He normally has a project to prevent repeated violent conflicts in the area of the former Yugoslavia. So what's he talking about? And then you're still defending him. So how do you not even know how to defend people like that who bring us back to that unfortunate creation? That's not clear to me. As far as Mommy's concerned, I'll tell you like this. I'm also a fan and I have nothing with Mr. Mamic. So I just don't like Mr. Mamic's politics in Croatian football either, here's to be more specific to you. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53649	Please, let's not throw it out of the bench, but we will now continue the individual debate and the next speaker has appeared to it, to be a respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a report for 2015, the 16th National Foundation for Civil Society Development. We can see it's a big deal. As a matter of fact, a lot of the lottery funds fund is financed. In my opinion, that's the way you say it and the criteria of the allocation of funds. I disagree. I think it would be much simpler for the ministries to allocate these funds according to associations that have their own requirements, but they are not clear criteria and who sets the criteria. You replied to me earlier in the replica, I still don't know who determines who these people are, how many employees at the National Foundation, how much money they are leaving, and that according to the Ministry, the Ministry of Social Welfare, the Ministry, I don't know, by all the ministries, and that associations, by their course, many associations are good people who do their job as the Association MOST here in Split. Here are our councilmen always together with the MOST Association together to prepare lunch or snack as they say and share it down with the powerless. So there are good associations, but the fact that there is also an ideological worldview and it's obvious and it's visible and I'm looking at, say, associations that are for democratic processes, let's say, GONG, I'd like it to be more involved in, say, the second round for the County of Split-Dalmatia I haven't seen them call themselves that we don't have enough people, that there's no other circle. I think the tribal would no longer be involved not to stand on one side, but about that, by that. Since he mentioned his colleague Zekanovic earlier, so that Mr. Zekanovic, you are the very one who supports this government you spoke of against the associations, just you about the government that's the HoS board of eleven heroes of the Homeland War that moves about what Pupovac or HNS says about how they order them to move. It doesn't even fit in Nova Gradiška now. Therefore, I see no reason to mention it that way in my discussion. Of course I don't agree with the the thesis of the documents that the Homeland War reverses, but that's my attitude. Vesna Terselić and her views are absolutely diametric, mine and her attitudes, and that's my right and I don't see why you emphasized me when you spoke. Or perhaps you are the only one in charge of this House to speak of it. And I really think it is unnecessary for you to talk about who supports this government that promotes these ideas similar to Mrs. Terselic, good co-operation with and even your member by ruling the comparison of General Bobetka with General Chetnic Crime Young and similar. You can see that from the street proposal. Therefore, he knows how to talk about it, and he can talk about the tribune associations seriously. The development of civil society is extremely important. Activism is important in one society and, of course, if that's a fact you'll have to tell the National Foundation for Civil Society's Development that according to ideological worldly if you share, if the associations give political options to support, if the associations call on what is said to support the association... you're funding to support a new presidential candidate uniquely under some umbrellas, I don't know, then that's more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, it's a direct political action. In my opinion, it is, they have the right to democratically launch referendums as some associations have initiated so have others. Of course most will decide, but to be placed on a political single political option although most of it is funded by associations that are politically active it is not good, I will to you, which are political classifications... but to fight for their ideas according to the law, especially if they help the humanitarianally poor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's very important to me to have this detail of how many employees you have and how much money you're going through, that money you're trying to end up with the poor, the humanitarian actions, we see numerous. We've got problems you've seen on Poor People's Day on one commercial television show and on another, here I see every day in all my midst more and more popular cuisines, more and more shops for the poor, local self-governments fighting as they can. And the activism must not be charged by anyone. If someone volunteers activists, they can't live on it, I don't know how many people. I don't know how many employees there are at all. I think that information is very important. Because if you're spending on the employees of 2 million kunas, that 2 million kuna should have gone to the poor, right? That they have, for food, for food or for some organizations in Vukovar, a store for the poor and in other cities. Therefore, the question here of a concept system, where criteria should not be allowed to be ideologically political and secular for associations and for the development of civil society. It is a wide range of associations from people with disabilities to green associations, to all associations that, the association of humanitarian, numerous associations. But if there's too much money being given to political world-wide associations and they're politically standing on one side, any left, right or on the bridge side or anyone else's side, that's not good. This is neither good nor transparent and this money is going to be to promote a political idea, ideology, because many associations need to be financed and the democratic system of the association is essentially an integral part of the demographic system. Who's going to influence our politicians if they don't want associations, if they don't want activists. I don't think it's good, but all those who work legally, who respect Croatian laws, which are critical of bad policies, I repeat again and according to a policy in which I am not having any problems, but those who mock Croatia, with the foundation of the Croatian state, need to trust a little of these statutes, look at these statutes. But that's not the truth about the Homeland War that can be reversed. Because the Croatian soldier was not in Nis, so you can explain to Mrs. Teselic when you give money, to explain to you, the Croatian soldier was in Nis and that the Croatian soldier defended himself honestly and was human in the Homeland War. And you're funding it from the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. Therefore, all victims are victims, to all should fight equally, but we must not twist the truth, and associations should respect it, that is the development of civil society, mostly I repeat, those who are humanitarian, those who, who are people, who are volunteers, who are activists, who change the world in fact they are progressive, they are a little bit under these lights a little rotted, because when a few years of age becomes, then we forget feeling with reality, most of them,... Not himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's a society driver, and I'm up for it. Although I think it was meant to remain with the ministries and according to the Ministry's programmes, and we have no way more than a factory of one ear through the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, and I don't even know how much resources there is in total. Do you have any savings in other accounts? Do you have any savings... The funds? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, even that money, I don't know why it's been saved, there's a lot of your intentions with that money. I think the system should be respected, the equality of the association for education, should be... science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it's politics, but I don't know your criteria. I, you'll have to explain well to them, that these reports would support them, and I won't support them from some others, I speak for my own personal name, for some other reasons, because I believe that the development of civil society cannot be based on the reference to volunteering of hundreds of employees to spend money. You should be employed, I think you should be inside, but you explain and answer these questions. How many employees are there only in your National Foundation for Civil Society Development? And how much you finance basically associations that have more employees than members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53651	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53652	Dear fellow Bull, some critical things have been said here. First of all, I would suggest that the Croatian police send all these NGOs, which are promoting this Belgrade school of truth to date. We know who they are, they're the throatiest. And it's unthinkable for me that these people are getting money from the Croatian state. They have to finance themselves out there. That's how it's supposed to be here. Not only that, but let's just say... agents receive money not only from the Croatian budget but from outside, open society... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] also an example of the one mentioned to the missus... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She thinks she's in Slovenia somewhere, we don't know who she really is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these former Tito heroes and party members, etc. They recently had one project, it was called political violence after 1941, where they got I think about 100,000... from the Dutch Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you'd be incubating yourself... Let's be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let him say whatever he wants, and first... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For them, and for others, let them finance themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have another media in that cultural space, Croatian journalists, who were sent there to train in New Mexico to violate the Croatian state, and now we have seen what we have, these private televisions, you have 3, not to say what TV is. It's also a project of a mystery... in Catholic countries, NGOs legalize abortion, which is Ireland, Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that Trojan horse continues to work, Caritas is not an NGO, and most of all, Caritas, nobody talks about her for the homeless, etc. When they threw the baby in the trash there in the former South who weren't mentally and physically developed who was doing it. One deer... And then you had a dialysis machine in Croatia in the hospital, and what about these people today? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today, most homeless people are funding this association, not these other terrorists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53653	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53654	Mr. Glasnović, not all associations are bad. There's a group of fantastic volunteers, and they really need these people to take their hat off to the floor. Many of these volunteers today care for people who are in a difficult and material situation, or older people or persons with disabilities, and there is no slowness. And the development of civil society is based on associations. But when it becomes someone's business and it becomes just a return then it's not good, then it's not good. I just wanted to tell you that if it was necessary for the money from the lottery of Croatia, which is funded by the foundation, to go through another filter, which is exactly how many foundations, how many employees there are, how much money that could be distributed through the ministries, or I don't know what it's all about, to associations that would do their job. And of course, I personally accept my position that I cannot accept the attitudes of associations that distort the role of, say, the role of the Homeland War. Because the Croatian soldier is an honorable soldier, the Croatian soldier was not attacked either Nis or those places, but if some association is promoting the top and the Croatian state is paying, as mentioned here, it is not good, because you simply have to ask as a national foundation what it is based on that we were or aggressors. We're not talking about the victims here, all the victims there should be protected, but credibility is very important. Although I'm more interested in this humanitarian principle and certainly not in the National Foundation, you've more determined yourself for these ideological world-based associations, you've given them more space, I think there's a lot more money to be found without a foundation and for people with disabilities and other humanitarian character associations in this difficult situation than we have many filters per dozen employees... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53655	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53656	Thank you, Vice President. As for my colleague Bulj, as far as associations are concerned, I myself ran an association in Vukovar-Srijem County, if you believe me, that I never asked the state or the county for any lip, and I ran an association where we helped the poor, we even bought laundry machines. And students who studied and students. However, he would agree with everyone here to support only humanistic associations that help people, all of these semi-political ones would say, as... or CONTRA and similar associations that take the money of Croatian citizens, all working against the interest of Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Clearly oriented to the left. We must both our ministries and our financial police certainly check where that money is spent. These associations need to be reduced to money, given more to humanitarian associations and a gentleman who wants to protest against something, let him take his money, let the street come out to say this square of Titos we do not give but for our money, not for Croatian citizens, not to talk about war as a criminal art, not that our defenders must rise to who can call them so much and especially not associations that have never worked in Croatian interest. And we have to work for those weaker, homeless, children with special needs and similar associations, and the associations should be rewarded multiplely compared to those who receive money and do not serve anyone but certain political structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53657	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53658	So associations shouldn't be left or right, they have their own programming goals, protecting certain groups, this one, that one and no way... political options and cannot allow that money to be shared without criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a basic rule, not left or right. I don't need to agree with some of the objectives of some associations, but they should stand up to political options, and then the problem is that when we finance open-ended associations with political options regardless of which option and openly advocate the political dimension itself, there is a problem and there is certain that there would be a lot more resources for the associations,... to go directly through certain ministries, by the programs, I know you will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I don't have here exactly from the National Foundation I don't have the criteria in which they assigned all new associations of funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been in a lot of associations with both civil and other actions, I've organised numerous protests myself, and as far as environmental, without any support, and I don't have any problem with that, but the problem is if money gets stuck somewhere in what amounts it doesn't get to who it needs to be, and that's people who are at risk and people who are in trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53659	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Bulj, I agree with you that you need greater control of the financing of civil society associations, I have received information that one head of the money association that got from the foundation bought by Iphone 7, as important to him by IPhone 7 for his work in carrying out his activity. However, I would warn you of one thing, I think the civil society gentleman will support me in this, so one of the criteria for financing associations is projects and now you have one disproportionate regional representation on the financing of associations because associations that are in large cities such as Zagreb and Split are much better equipped with writing projects than in the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia and so on. And then disproportionate is created because this association does not have the capacity to write a good project and perhaps the needs are greater, and the association that is in Zagreb, Split or Rijeka, which has much better equipment with both people and with everything else because of writing the project gets most of the money and creates disproportionateness and maybe the needs there are bigger, so here it would just point out as one problem. I think a civil society association or something else should be involved in workshops that these people who, in other parts, learned to write these projects and then could be better funding. Here's just one proposal as a way of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53661	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53662	Well, that's what I think is an important problem because most of the funds go away as you said in large areas, because of the capacity of people who have the ability to write projects and maybe where it's much more necessary and these are rural environments that are both needed and forgotten and on all issues. Because many of our environments today do not have the availability of public transportation, such as the Dalmatian Zagora from where I come from, but the Gorski Kotar, the character does not have the availability of emergency assistance. The older population would have even greater needs for these people. And these people are threatened because they don't have human beings, what every man must have from health care, transportation, food delivery opportunities. Simply these areas have been forgotten, and surely in these areas, there would be as many activists as possible, volunteers who would help these people. And those ends are essentially, you've well noticed forgotten. Because it's simply how standards are made that they just get mostly associations that have the capacity to first create this project, to satisfy it, to approve it, and of course it's always the same associations most of the time every year. Therefore, for any other capacity of enlargement there is no room and that is what I think is also one intention to close borders and barriers and these are these criteria and thus works and thus cannot function the development of civil society. First of all, we need to take care of those who need it most, and this is mostly not even in larger cities, and it's mostly in rural forgotten environments because they don't have the same conditions as they have larger environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53663	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53664	Dear colleague Bulj, the truth is I mentioned your name in my debate not to call you, but to move you to a little debate, to warn you of an association of documents that does something about me that should not be done in the Republic of Croatia. And you as one representative who often defends and mentions, talks about the Homeland War and defends Croatian defenders I thought you would react in the right way. And you called me to support the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Mr. Miro Bulj, my party HRAST is in coalition with HDZ. I am proud to have been on the HDZ list for the Croatian Parliament. And Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will have my hand, I would say by the end of this term certainly unlike you. You signed first at the public notebook, you won't be left or right. So then you offered each other together, then only one, and then with that HDZ you eventually went to the coalition once, for the first time. Then it all fell apart together, and then we won't go left or right again and again with HDZ for the second time in the coalition, and you are now credible. And you know what's funniest and what's really the lamest? You'd still be in the coalition if Plenkovic hadn't chased you. He just pushed you out of power and now you're in opposition and now you're where you're supposed to be from the beginning, but you didn't have the guts to do it. You wanted power, but you didn't win. There you go!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53665	I'm begging you, let's stick to the subject. The subject is the report on the work of the National Foundation. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53666	You're not in the Zekanovic coalition, you're just a bat. She put you on the list. We are even after the government fell for the first time, because if it wasn't for us, you wouldn't be in the Parliament. Well, you've been texting to go on the Most list, so people come to me. You asked people to be on the list. You came in somehow, that's where you got satisfied, come down, raise your hand of course with your colleague Pupovac, the SDSS, with fellow HNS liberals, you represent very different attitudes. And we were ready to go to the election, one government to crash where we had just settled. You can't think of that. For what? Because you're an ear, you're not that heavy. We all measured. You know how many votes you got in the election, you can easily check it out. You can't live to get as many votes as we do, because HDZ put you as a sticker. You're simple, you just roll the HDZ card. And there's nothing to force us to do. We have received the votes we have received, we have opened topics that you can only dream of or obey the orders of Andrej Plenkovic, Milorad Pupovac or Mr Vrdoljak from the HNS, and this is HRAST you are here as a conservative option and in essence everything that is liberal, everything that Mrs. Terselić represents you represent. So you agree to record the heroes of the Homeland War moving, and here you raise the halabuku. You're simply undetectable in HDZ. You're HDZ, you're the same list. You understand that? We were a special list of MOSTs, special people, special independent lists. I was an independent list. You can't live with that! You can't dream that! You must be a obedient servant, ordered by the secretaries and so on. But if we were afraid of HDZ, SDP or anyone else, we wouldn't be here to change things, but I'd come to that party and maybe be on that list as silent as you are. You're tasked only with attacking the Most. Your job is to represent conservative attitudes, and raise your hand for liberals and left-wing attitudes that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53667	Thank you very much. I'm asking you nicely. Let's concentrate on, please let's concentrate on the agenda points and these are the Reports on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. Please! Let's focus on that. Dear Replic, distinguished representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53668	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to try to concentrate on my replica about, in fact, the agenda point, not these, and I'm not going to comment. Col. Bulj, I agree that work should be supported, quality work of civil society, so associations and activists, because they are actually an important segment of the development of any society, especially our society today in Croatia. And you've mentioned millions of actually going to pay, and I'd just like to say that it's actually the biggest culprit of the situation that millions of people are going to pay for certain associations and all the competent ministries and governments so far, especially at a time when we were a pre-accession member, until today when we see that there are actually no transparent and accessible ways of informing the competent ministries, educating associations to be able to withdraw funds from various EU funds and thereby finance their salaries over a period of 6, 12, 18, 24 months and their programmes and various activities, but they are precisely using these funds for that purpose, using funds from the budget or here you said, funds from the lottery. This is bad, so it is easier for us to take funds out of the budget and spend them on salaries instead of those funds that we are certainly paying ourselves as EU membership, which is simply at our disposal. Well, here I am, if I were a minister, I'd keep workshops every day if we had to, as long as we didn't start withdrawing funds from the EU. In this case, the budgetary resources they use for their salaries and, note, precisely for wages can be used by public works and by pooling in joint projects of cross-border cooperation, from various EU funds, they use budgetary ones. I just don't see that logic except that it's just hard to start working with the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53669	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53670	Apparently the National Foundation, it has secured sources of income, it amounts to 50 million kuna,... Obviously they are the ones who allocate these funds to other regional associations that are numerous and good, we can't say it now generalise, civil society is okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is that obviously... much and does not prefer that they use EU funds, then they are provided with money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have extra money, so I'm curious to ask the questions, how much have you saved these funds? So they're interested in getting out the money, by which criteria they finance associations I don't know, I haven't got an answer yet, who these people are and how they choose, there's no idea and the fact that a lot of money stays in the essence between the national trust and the associations, stay in the way of employees, no way... and mostly end-users, which is very visible, mainly in rural areas, I'm talking now about humanitarian associations, associations that care about people with social problems and other problems that are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is visible on the ground that this is so and that huge money remains directly in the foundation and through certain associations, through employees, it is not good, this money needs to be reached by end-users, and EU funds are very desirable, of course, but obviously they do not need them when they have enough money from the Croatian lottery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53671	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53672	Comrade Bulj, most of us are about funding ourselves and the trust and the general association, and you've mentioned it a lot, we haven't been entering the content itself that is being financed, and in what way, I think is more controversial than the way it is being financed. I would disagree with you, you mentioned perhaps not the financing of the association through the foundation, but exclusively through the ministry, we know that associations today are really funded in different ways, one association similar to or the same project is also passing through the municipalities and cities, and trusts and ministries and in various ways, through private companies. So I think that the foundation here has some function and importance because one ministry could not just deal with it, get into the matter of the projects themselves, and get into the content of everything that a particular association does, it's better to have a filter like a foundation, and I don't think it's so controversial or how they finance them, because it pays, and I agree with your colleague, normally that more projects can be drawn through EU funds that we know that you can then put one or two employees on this project and so less burden our budget and our ministries, but you also mentioned this association on the left and right, as they are ideologically colored, we know associations and establish themselves for certain problems that the government may not be dealing with, or society has not recognised, so a certain association of citizens is taking on certain topics, and that's this humanitarian work, and that's positive. But we have associations that have a slightly wider spectrum of their actions and often grab it and often step into this very ideological sphere and it's not even so controversial. So they can touch the ideologies a little bit, each association of citizens normally to be guided by a certain thought, a certain consciousness, determined ultimately by ideology, but what is controversial and what is controversial about this part of this report and in the work of certain associations, if any activity and any project of the association offends the public order, insults the foundations on which society is based, what you mentioned, insults for example. Homeland war. Well, then, that's slow funding. What's a little ideologically colored isn't even, but if it insults the basics and the public order there, then the state has to be activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53673	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53674	I said that the problem are criteria and of course some associations will deal with if it's a struggle for women's rights, then of course they'll deal with those rights, but that's the least of the problems. The problem is when they settle with some political option. To classify themselves irrelevantly with HDZ, MOST, SDP, least importantly, these are problems because here it is mentioned that associations are designated as sources for certain groups of political ones. That's already a problem. Civil society development must be separate from politics, they are policy corrective and I am the first against the fact that politics has no impact and that programmes and projects dealing with social categories are prescribed, hard-to-poverty, humanitarian actions for the sick, of course, should be encouraged. No one's against it, but the problem is that the biggest money goes away for ideological world-famous roles, most of the money. And it's a spectrum of the development of civil society, someone's going to think it's for the marriage of men and women, someone else's, someone's going to disagree, someone's that an abortion for life, it's social things that associations have the right to deal with, talk about, but when they're placed in politics and when they stand behind political options, directly that ideology, the world's going to send a message, but this is too much. Too much money goes away in this difficult situation in Croatia, goes to these things and very little to these poor parts. And very few foundations use EU funds because they are provided with money, he has extra money from the lottery. Maybe at the head and the principle, the foundation is good, maybe it's good. But the ways and criteria of maintaining the funds to me is not a clear choice, he says in the contest, who conducts the competition? In what way? This should be much clearer and more transparent and public tendering. We're all up for a public competition. In what way? What are the criteria? Boiling? Because every year they're the same associations, mostly very small movements, that's what you said yourself, that they're standard associations that are framed and they're within that system. And in my view, these things should change, extend and extend the criteria and way of choosing the people who determine which projects you finance and which ones you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53675	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the deputy director of the National Foundation, the esteemed Luka Bogdan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53676	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. First of all, thank you for your great interest in discussing the National Foundation, our work report for 2015 and 2016. I'd like to try to answer a few questions that were controversial here in the debate, so it might be clearer for MPs and MPs on the subject I'm talking about. First of all, this is the 2016 Work Report, which is why I did not look much at some of the new things that we introduced in 2017, which is specifically the introduction of branches of the National Foundation in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka that will help associations, write projects. The idea is to strengthen as much civil society as possible in the application, right in the applications for a European Social Fund competition. In the debate, it was mentioned that we are extremely weak in use, as I said in the introduction, we are not the beneficiary of the European Social Fund's resources, we are the intermediate body of the second level. And I can tell you, all that was available from the European Social Fund to spend it is 99%. So there were no unrealised funds available to civil society without them being called or something. There were also questions as to how much we as the Foundation cost, in the end line, and how much money we spend. The work of the National Foundation annually amounts to around 4 million kunas, a good part of which is also covered by the technical assistance we use for the salaries of employees working in the EU department. We at the Foundation have 10 employees in the national department dealing with national funding and we have over 20 employees working on financial and programme monitoring associations that have received funding from the European Social Fund, which requires us workload analyses and all the accreditation package that we must have as an intermediate body. I'd also like to look back on whether there are criteria. There are criteria. The criteria were set out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its regulation, there is a Regulation on criteria, criteria and procedures for financing projects of interest for the general good carried out by associations. And all the tenders we call must be consistent with those criteria. It's prescribing what's being daggered, why it's pricking, and how it's pricking. Each year, the Management Board of the National Foundation shall take a decision on independent appraisals which, when we discuss the tender as a professional service, assess the arrival of applications. We noticed that we have some continuity of certain civil society organisations, but then we went with this logic to strengthen all other stakeholders, so we're going to introduce branches, and we're going to strengthen all stakeholders at civil society level, not to problem which association received what amount of funds and why. Here, I hope I could answer those questions that were asked. If it's me, I'll be happy to answer more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53677	Thank you very much, it seems that some questions remain open because we have several replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53678	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I know very well what your options are like the Foundations, as well as the opportunities of associations. I'm actually interested in why you didn't activate, because if you did, it was very bad, so you educated all those associations that they know what their opportunities are by withdrawing funds from the EU funds. That was my question just now that I was actually speaking in the replica. Because they have these options, and they're very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, And if you took out some percentage of what you would do well to do, so let's see how much this association is actually funding its pay programme from our funds, you'd see that it's almost no figure. And there's the problem, you need to educate these people, so why don't you use what's available to us, and then you can use the funds you have from the budget for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53679	Answer, dear Luke Bogdan, Deputy Director of the National Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, we are in the report, you can find in the report and for 2015 we have made an accurate analysis of how many of our users are, institutional support is successful in withdrawing European funds so that analysts exist. And we've made a decision to launch a branch because of this proactiveity. So it went to the Foundation's initiative. So here we are currently in the phase of setting up a branch and it will be open since 1.1.2018. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53681	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53682	Thank you very much. So I think that certain answers, i.e. the explanation that the Government has laid down the criteria by its regulation, it once again confirms that, in fact, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, what is the meaning of this, but now it's a question of all the issues, I was interested in, of these funds, of these funds that the Fund receives from the meaning of games of happiness, from Croatia's lottery to how much money remains essentially in the pay fund itself, which it is about, because the fact that interest and goal, to all of us, that these funds come to the end users, to those who will need help, to volunteers, to those who are on the ground, mainly in these forgotten areas, where it is visible that in these larger cities, it is how much organized? I'd rather run social categories and people with needs, left alone, and that's an angle. The largest part is in rural areas, the older population, because there is no... health services, no schooling, no transportation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the part I'm interested in, how much at the National Payments and Costs Foundation for Civil Society Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53683	The answer to the esteemed Luke Bogdan, although he said so earlier in the reply but now he will clearly repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53684	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bully, that's right. I'll repeat it on the page. The 85th annual report of 4 million kuna, 4 million kuna, the rest is spent on wages. Part of this is not all 4 million kunas from the lottery funds, but is a major part of the technical assistance we use from the European Social Fund. As for the other thing, the National Foundation, there's no money left at the end of the year. We have from the very beginning something called the trusts of property. This treasured property, we have collected various donations, which foreign governments, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and they founded, the property of the foundation is 50 million kuna. The property of the foundation is used in extraordinary situations, as it was last year, when the lottery funds fell. So then, with the trust property, we amortized, which is why civil society organisations don't run out of financial resources. But we don't leave any retained financial resources during our business except for these minimum wage costs we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53685	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53686	Dear Mr. Bogdan, here's a little more on the proposition, for the implementation of any project, there should be some capacity, associations and financial and implementation, so people who work in the association and we have a problem. So some new association that has a good story, a good project. She simply doesn't have the capacity to implement, because she never got the money and never got to hire people. You yourself told the government regulation to regulate these things, so here it is, my one suggestion, that this government regulation, be in a way, to allow new associations, to enter among these currently funded associations. Yeah, and those associations that didn't get a chance to get 300, 400, 500 thousand kuna and hundreds of thousands of kuna from the state, get into that circle, bewitched, that is, to hire people and conduct projects. Well, that's one of my suggestions, as to the proposition of the contests you're conducting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53687	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on both points, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53688	Annual report on the work of the National Civil Society Development Foundation for 2015. The applicant shall be the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, and the debate shall be concluded. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives of the Croatian Liberal Democrats and the Club of National Minority Representatives, I am giving the next conclusion. The annual report on the work of the National Civil Society Development Foundation for 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 109 for, 4 abstentions and 6 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53753	And we move to the next point, which is: - The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2016 is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, on the basis of Article 153. Pension Insurance Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Mr. Josip Aladrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53754	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, before you a report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2016 concerning the activities of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the past year, were carried out in accordance with the positive regulations and financial plan of the Institute, and according to the annual work plan of the Institute adopted by the Administrative Council. The report before you is made up of practically the same methodology as the previous reports, and in order for the results and for some indicators to be comparable, containing the usual chapters on the state of the pension insurance system, the establishment of the institute, and its human potential and information technology, the work of the board of directors, financial operations, the portfolio of the institute, and the exercise of the rights and the work of professional services. At the beginning of a few words on the state of pension insurance, intergenerational solidarity at the end of 2016. So, on 31.12.2016, a million and 223,000 users and a million and 440,000 insurance companies were registered in the Institute. This represents a ratio of 1 to 1.17 which, compared to past periods, would be a slight increase in 2015 when the ratio was 1 to 1.15. Out of the total number of insurance companies, there were 1.23 million employees of legal persons, about 106000 insurance employees of natural persons, farmers' insurance workers, there were just over 19000. 56,000 active craft insurance companies and 20,000 self-employed professional insurance companies were also recorded. When we look at the number of pensioners, 788000 were users of retirement pension or some 64%, the disability pension was received by 201000 users, which is 16.34%. A family pension of 243,000 users, representing 7.72%. Compared to the previous year, again in 2015, this represents an increase in the number of age pension beneficiaries in the total number of users and a reduction in the number of disabled and family pensions. In 2016, a total of 49995 users were registered who for the first time had the right to retire, of which 36732 users aged and early retirement. The average pension made under the Retirement Insurance Act for December 2016 was 2255 kuna and 6 limes. The share of that pension in the average net salary is also 38.63% for December 2016, and the average pension if we exclude pensions made under international social insurance contracts is 2508 kuna, which makes up 43% of the average net salary for December 2016. The average retirement pension for December 2016 was 2482 kuna or 42.52% of the average net salary for December 2016. The average retirement pension without pensions under international social insurance contracts was 2828.70 lipa and 48.45% of the average net salary for December 2016. The average retirement pension, which was determined on the basis of a 40-year retirement period on 31 December 2016, amounted to 4184 kuna and 28 June and 71.67%, respectively, of the average net salary for December 2016. In the total number of pension beneficiaries according to the Pension Insurance Act, the largest number of users is in the age group between 65 and 69 years and the share of users in younger age groups is slightly reduced, which is a positive trend, while increasing the share of users in older age groups. In addition to pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity, the Institute also implements the procedures for the exercise of the right of allowance for children. In 2016, child allowance was used by an average of 174,000 users for an average of 329000 children. The allowance was averaged 374 kuna and 77 lip per child, and the total cost of funding was at the level of a billion and 479 million kuna. When we talk about the financial operations of the Institute's total income in 2016 amounted to €38 billion,710 million, while expenditures amounted to €38 billion,682 million. The revenue from the budget is estimated at €38 billion 677 billion and refers to revenue from the contribution to pension insurance amounting to €20 billion and €298 million, representing 52.44% of total revenue, and general revenue and revenue from the budget of €18 billion 379 million. The revenue from the contribution in 2016 compared to 2015 increased by 3.9%. Total expenditure for 2016 was achieved at 38 billion and 682 million kuna and remained at the total expenditure level for 2015. Pension and pension income expenditures amounted to 36 billion and 805 million kuna, with a total expenditure structure of 95.15% and an increase of 0.3% compared to 2015. As of 1 January 2016, pensions have been harmonised by 0.46%, and in the second harmonisation that took place on 1 July 2016, they have been harmonised by an additional 0.30%, and subsequently the proportion of pension incomes within the gross social product was 11.29%. Business expenditure when talking about staff and material expenditures for 2016 amounted to 343 million kuna. Compared to 2015, by 2.8%. The staff expenditure in 2016 amounted to 264 million kuna, i.e. 0.88% of total expenditure of the institutions, and when compared to 2015 are reduced by 1.1%. Material expenditures amounted to 78 million kuna and decreased by 8%, with 0.2% in the total expenditure structure. The most significant expenditure relates to expenditure on services that are lower by 10.4% mostly due to the reduction of expenditure on postal services compared to 2015 when the Institute had increased costs for sending a solution and informing pensioners for which pension separation was made, and to dispatching the solution to users in connection with the translation of disability pensions. The cost of postal services has been reduced due to the conclusion of a postal service contract through the Central Public Procurement Office under more favourable conditions, while the costs for telephone services for the use of data transfer services via CARNET have also been reduced. The reduction in expenditure compared to 2015 also relates to the costs of employees by 3.6% due to the reduction in the number of employees in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. They were realised at 1 billion and 479 million kuna levels and were lower by 6.9% compared to 2015. The total expenditure of allowances for children includes the funds for the payment of the most innovative allowance of 297 million kuna. When we talk about the work of the Institute's professional services, during 2016 there were 529 thousand 921 requests for pension insurance rights. Here we talk about foreign and foreign insurance, child insurance, home records, first and second degree insurance. Of these, 70882 requests were submitted from the previous year and a total of 454 000 requests or 85.74% were resolved. In the first stage of 2016, 505 000 646 requirements were resolved, which is at 2015 level, i.e. some slight increase in resolution requirements. Of the total number, 436 693 requirements were resolved, i.e. 84.41%. In the second degree, during 2016, there were 24 thousand 275 requests in the office and 7 thousand 653 second-degree solutions were transferred from 2015 and 16 thousand 622 new complaints were received during 2016, of which 71.84% were solved. In the implementation of the Children's Supplement Act, in the first and second stages of foreign insurance, together with the outstanding requirements of the previous year, there were 238 thousand 363 requests and a total of 235 thousand 706 claims were resolved, representing 98.88%. As regards the work on the application of the EU regulation and international social insurance contracts in 2016, 56 000 532 were requested to be resolved, to recognise the right to pension from Croatian pension insurance through the application of EU regulations and international social insurance contracts, and 37,000 237 applications and 65.9% respectively were resolved. The number of applications received for pensions and allowances for children in 2016 was within the limits planned until a marked increase in the number of applications came in the area of the establishment of the legislation, so the plan was at 32 000 until 57 000 applications were received. The reason why such a disproportion between the planned and achieved is that the activity of our companies abroad has been significantly increased, resulting in an increased need for more outsourced workers. During 2016, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office paid pension incomes for 149 thousand and 26 users living in 47 countries, which is mainly about countries in the environment and represents 5.5% of the total annual pension expenditure. In 2016, 3 000 391 applications were also received for payment rights for children by application of the Regulations. Since 2015, 2 000 43 applications have remained unresolved. So in 2016, there were 5 thousand 434 requests that were resolved 3 thousand 338 and 61.43%, respectively. The electronic exchange of data on the fact of the death of pensioners was established between the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and foreign pension insurance holders from BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Poland, Slovenia, Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany. This data exchange is also constantly technologically advanced and thus practically increases the efficiency of the work of the institution itself. In addition, there is a reduction in the number of non-retirement payments of pension income. As regards operations relating to the keeping of home records of institutions other than regular activities, a significantly improved e-login system is a significant improvement. The service is extended to all categories of obligors and insurance companies. And for that reason, the share of applications in the total number of applications increased to 83.9%, 83.2%, pardon. In the same way, the Institute gave its users access to personal data, data on working legal status, e-confirmation through the E-Citizens system. During 2016, e-Citizens made it possible to issue and confirm an insurance and salary internship and to notify the other income achieved. When we talk about human potential in the Bureau on 31.12.2016, the total number of staff in the Institute was 2597, or 84 employees less than 2015. Over many years, a constant decline in the number of employees has been observed, which also affects the efficiency of the institute itself. According to the display of the movement of the number of employees, it is evident that, regardless of the new jobs that we have received under the applicable legislation, we have continuously reduced the number of employees and the continuing decline of the number of employees due to natural outflows or due to the outflows of staff according to other employers, we are primarily talking about the information frame, with the maximum engagement of internal reserves and redistribution of jobs, and we have succeeded in doing all the tasks. In cooperation with the Croatian Employment Service in 2016, professional training for work without the establishment of a total of 156 students, of which 79 students of the first and second levels of higher education were accepted. In addition to its pension income operations, the Institute also has its own funds portfolio in commercial companies. So as regards business related to the management and management of shares and business shares of companies for the said business, Croatian pension insurance d.o.o. On 31 December 2016, the total nominal value of an institution covering 57 companies amounted to a billion 620 million 591 thousand and 532 kuna. In 2016, a total of 398 million 888 thousand and 712 kuna were charged from portfolio management. Of that, 62 million and 901 thousand from the base of dividend collection and 335 million 986 thousand from the sale of the portfolio of the office. On 31 December, the claim made by the portfolio office amounts to 157 million kunas, of which 156 million 930 thousand relate to a claim based on the sale of shares or shares while 822 thousand kunas are claims based on dividends. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is also the founder and manages the Croatian Pension Investment Company, which manages the capital fund. The Capital Fund, therefore, achieves its investment objective of investing assets mainly in equity, i.e., shares, adapting in this investment structure to market shares. The basic income of HMIDA is the capital fund management fee of 2% of the average value of the fund's assets minus the financial liabilities. In 2016 HMID made a net profit of 16 million and 276,000 kn. And the value of the fund's net assets increased by €84.8 million in 2016, representing 7.5% increase in net assets. So this is a summary of the business report in 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53755	Thank you very much. We have more replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53756	Thank you very much. Mr. Director, you've been a good Oliver Mlakar, you've read the report. We could have read it without you. I expected you to talk here about what the Institute did well, what it did bad about some vision, the future of the Institute, in 2017. We read these numbers ourselves, and you didn't have to explain it further. So, you've been a good speaker, you've got to work out a little bit more, your voice was shaking a little bit, and there's a bit of nervousness, and there's a porch behind this pay phone. But what I'd ask two things. One thing is whether the Institute has concluded a contract with the Croatian Post Office on advertising that an application can be submitted in the post office for so, by completing the internships, therefore, to check the internships. Because as far as I have information, so the campaign started that it could be done through Croatia's mail and that officials in Croatia, since this was paid by the Bureau, that officials in Croatia, working on the norm, had sent 10, 100 requests on behalf of their relatives, friends, neighbors, to check and complete their internship, although at that point they did not need it. And secondly, given that the villa Idola, a very valuable property owned by the Institute, as we know, the villa Idola is set up by the bishop's conference, which I have nothing against, but I am interested in whether the state has damaged the Institute and in what value, given that it is a very real estate, which is in a very good position and I hope the Institute did not give it for free.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53757	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed director of HZMO.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53758	I thank you for your findings and questions. So, first question about co-operation with the Croatian Post Office. HZMO signed a contract on the implementation of a pilot project with Croatian Post, 9th and 11.5th respectively, if I am not mistaken, at the time of 6th of May. The contract is consummated, the Croatian Post Office is one of the companies that represents the largest available on the domestic market. As the Institute wants to increase the availability of its services, certain services can be consumed in the Croatian Post Office. Of course, as in any project, there are some little things that need to be corrected, but that's exactly why it's a pilot project. And after the pilot of the project, i.e. contract, which defines the pilot project, we will decide on future co-operation with the Croatian Post Office. The second question was about the villa Idola, therefore, the villa Idola is a property owned by HZMO, unfortunately because of insufficient management funds, insufficient funds, which the state budget provides for us on behalf of maintenance, real estate management, we thought it was more relevant, that we give this property to the management of those who can take better care of the Villa Idoli, and we, with colleagues from the Ministry of State Property, will provide adequate compensation for the specified real estate through future time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53759	Thank you. The next question, a replica of the esteemed representative, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director, I have one question, based on the citizens I spoke to before this session. So here we have data, that unfortunately, as many as 94645 users have an average pension of 232 kn and 286 has an average pension of 8973 kn. So the citizens asked me how much the lowest pension is and what the highest pension is... He can't see from this data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53761	The answer of the esteemed Josip Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53762	So, the amounts of pensions themselves are listed in the report, but I must point out, that the Institute is an implementing body and the Institute implements the acts of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, what is to us on the disposition of legal solutions, we implement them accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53763	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53764	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Director of the Aladrović Institute, here I would like to thank you for one exhaustive but quality and transparent report which also gives us certain indicators, which I would like to say as a negative, simply can't keep them quiet, I have to point them out, not as a criticism to you, but as a warning to all of us, which is worrying about the decline of the number of insurance workers, farmers and craftsmen. This negative trend continued and I say, the message itself is clear, especially at a time when we have some new laws in agriculture. He would also mention the problem of demographic ageing in the population, which is reflected in the unfavourable proportion of insurance and pensioners. But if it wasn't all so black, I'm glad that since 2011, although it has, there has been a continuing increase in the number of insurance companies but we have reached that level since 2011, which is also an indication that the economy in the Republic of Croatia has started to grow. What I would particularly like to point out, and they have asked me to commend the service, the field service in Osijek, or 188 workers and workers who are doing a really good job, which according to these indicators is at the top of the percentage of the requirements and are located at the top, i.e. have the lowest percentage of outstanding demands and are high above the average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53765	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53766	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Ladrovic. So it's clear from the report that you did very well and in the opening part you highlighted in the report itself, and you also said here at the pay phone what the situation in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, in the intergenerational solidarity system, and here you listed several of the most important problems, and we can say it very briefly. So what we are incomeing from pension insurance contributions is not enough or is slightly more than half the funding needed to pay off pensions. You as a system have, and you also have an obligation to propose legal frameworks that would change the existing state as far as I understand it. Some of you have listed measures here, and I am interested in whether there are concrete proposals and measures that you propose to the Croatian Government to make, because this situation is not long-term sustainable. That's what the figures say despite this increase in pensioner and insurance ratios versus 1.17. And I'm interested in that part of the portfolio where you cut the portfolio by 280 million kuna. 257 million refers to the sale of shares if I read it correctly, and 23 million are erasure or individual losses. So I'm curious about how that happened, 'cause I see some kind of veterinary station that the Peace Fund invested in. If you can explain that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53767	The answer of the esteemed director, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53768	I thank you for asking. So, about Croatian pension insurance, that is, this second part of your question and portfolio management. These are companies that have been practically inherited in the portfolio over many years and are practically, in practice, practically managed by the CERP according to the State Property Management Act, so that this part of the business is related to the sale of certain shares. Regarding the first part of the question, so the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute generally always gives its human and material resources to create as high-quality solutions as possible. We are also available to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and to all other ministries in the adoption and creation of legal solutions. And that's where we want to be and we've been a proactive participant so far. So we will continue to continue and I am sure that these incomes you mention, especially income from contributions, will increase their share in the payment of pensions over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53769	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53770	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll just have one quick question. In particular, the report on the third page contains the structure of the insurance undertaking according to the basics of the insurance. It states that we have a million 231 thousand 143 legal employees, so I am now interested in whether or not there are employees in the state and public services that there are around 250,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53771	The reply of the respected director of the Croatian Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53772	If I'm not mistaken, they are. We can still check it out, and then we'll deliver the written evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53773	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the first word will be taken by the distinguished representative Dragan Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53774	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Aladrovic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2016 will say that it is technically correct, to a good extent quality, transparent, but also identical in form and content with the report from previous years, i.e. the data are very similar and refer to different trends and trends. I will publish what is positive, which is therefore to regularly publish information and useful information on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's website with statistics, which makes the work more transparent. It is also the fact that the site was visited by about 3 million 301 000, i.e. for 263 892 users higher than in 2015. I also commend your monthly, monthly newspaper whose self-user I am and I consider it very well done. However, the above - mentioned trends are not very favourable. In particular, the unfavourable relationship between pensioners and users, which in 2016 is 1:1.7. So in 2016 a million were recorded, i.e. a million 223 thousand 375 users and a million 440 insurance companies. The ratio was 1:1.17 while the ratio in 2015 was 1:1.1.15. Therefore, because of this unfavourable number of workers, this is how certain economic analysts claim to be unsustainable in the long term. The revenues and expenditures would not be talked about, the figures are clear, Mr Aladrovic informed us about it. It may be necessary to mention the average pension in 2016, which amounted to 2 2555 kuna. The share of the pension on average net salary was 38.63%. According to these data, pensioners in Croatia are in the most difficult position compared to other EU pensioners, i.e. Romania and Turkey are only behind us whether, which is not in the EU but not at all great data. So the real value of our pensions is, on average, 297 euros, which is what I said, 38.63% of the average net salary, the lowest in the region. Here is only the graduation, in Slovenia it is 58.44%, i.e. 613 euros. In Montenegro, 57.8% and in Serbia it is 47%. So, as you can see, no great numbers. It may also be interesting to compare other price values, so in Croatia food costs an average of 91% of the EU average. So in Macedonia, it is, say, low 58%, in Slovenia 96%. From all of this, it is clear that when the price of food is installed in the relative value of the pension then there is nothing left for Croatian pensioners but to starve. It is also an opportunity to point out that in Croatia since pensions have been coordinated to date, they have lagged behind the growth of wages of 13.84%. In this year alone, that amount is 2.55% which is, therefore, the largest annual backlog of the last 18 years. I will also take advantage of the opportunity and warn of the problem of poverty because of the particulars and very low pensions and the great cost of living. It seems that pensioners do not form a pillar of this society and that they do not seem to have created and tolerated the burden of building a whole society, so unfortunately, they are so demoted. Out of such small pensions they cannot live decently and the largest number of pensions is actually less than average so these pensions are largely already down to the level of social assistance, which makes it seem like they haven't worked or created value. About how poor the pensioners really are also the following HZMO data. The pension of less than 500 kuna was won 94 645. Imagine 94,645 people get less than 500 kuna a month. So, I don't know at all, I wonder how they survive, and they're probably on the verge of existence. 88 609 is receiving a pension between 500 and 1000 kuna. Pensions from 1000 to 1500 kuna receive 137 053 pensioners. From 1500 to 2000 kuna gets 227 255 pensioners and from 2000 to 3000 kuna gets 320 647 pensioners. It is therefore important to point out that some economic analysts predict that the sustainability of this system is another 5 years precisely because of the sensitivity of this matter, i.e. that the ageing of the population is particularly the migration of young people, or the problem of emigration that is taking serious intentions, is clearly affecting and jeopardizing this very system. Also, it is an opportunity for the SDSS to mention the financially damaged pensioners who are addressing us for help because they have found themselves without their guilt in an unequal position compared to others. I'm talking about pensioners who got pensions before '91. years, so, who spent their entire working life paying off these funds. Without their guilt, they were denied pensions because of circumstances they could not influence and others were suspended in their fundamental rights. So I'm talking about pensioners in the period of unpaid pensions since '91. Until '97. A year. And here, you may also have to say that almost all governments have made a commitment to resolve this issue and find... the proper compensation and on the basis of them to compensate for the said group of pensioners, however, the issue remains open. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, at the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, we're going to try to help this category, the financially damaged pensioners, to correct this injustice. I will also take advantage of the opportunity to commend the work of the District Station in Vukovar where we have 72 employees who do excellent work, are always at their service, they are kind, I have direct contacts with them and I have all the words of praise for the University of Vukovar. And finally, the SDSS Representatives' Club will, of course, support this report by making it comprehensive and concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53775	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53776	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Jeckov, here he would only like to correct one of the data that you have presented and which is often used for false statistics in recent days, to display Croatia in pink glasses. Here's yesterday in the prime minister's report, which is that they're insurance workers. So now we hear here that the ratio of workers and pensioners is 1,17:1, so insurance is not workers. This is a haired statistics especially directed by Minister of Finance Marić, who has pushed unemployed persons into insurance companies on vocational training and since 1 January 2017 persons receiving copyright fees. They're not workers. They're workers who have a job contract. They're workers. And if such statistics were applied and such statistics were applied, let's say, by the one who has to apply it, which is the State Statistics Office, it would appear that the ratio is actually far more unfavourable than this report shows. But of course it suits someone that things show up like this and then we still have some impression that the number of employees of the alleged has increased, that the ratio has improved a little bit and it's actually a terrible truth that the number of workers has decreased and the ratio has worsened. Therefore, this statistics provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute should be taken with a serious reserve, should actually be rejected because it is methodologically incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53777	The answer of the distinguished representative Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53778	Dear counterpart Bunjac, it should be said that those working on an act contract and those who are on vocational training also have a certain amount to go and, of course, their salaries go, are paid into pension insurance so that they are certainly covered by this report. And I have no reason to doubt that this ratio is 1:1.75, as I said. And in professional training and work contract, they are all equally paid for in pension and health, of course, they are not released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53779	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53780	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have a routine report from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is no different from the reports we had in our previous years and we had one recently several weeks ago. However, whenever we talk about the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute through it, the situation in our labour market and the situation in the Croatian budget is pictured. What concerns both what is visible in this report is a low share of average pensions in the average salary. It is still low and will take time to clearly increase that share of wages, pensions in salaries. However, what I expected from the director who read that report that we could read and without its help to point first at some other things that are now and in the future will begin to break through the calculation of statistics that will tell us which share of pensions is on average. Because by joining the EU, we will see more and more pensioners who have worked with us and have worked in the EU as well. And so far, the methodology is such that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the part that is receiving from our pension system accounts as their pension and is adding it to the average pension. This has been tried in part to get rid of so that we now have statistics with and without but I think that in the future there should be statistics without those pensioners receiving pensions from EU countries or some other countries and part of Croatia's pension because we are clouding the situation in our pension system. The majority of these pensions are extremely low, so these pensions are about 500 to 700 kuna. We even gave those pensioners and that 100, 200 kuna supplement that local self-government did and that they had 1,000, 2000 or I don't know how many thousands of euros or Swiss francs on the other hand. Therefore, I expected the director to say that this way of reporting will also change to make it realistic and that we constantly get the impression that there are many pensioners in Croatia who have a low pension and really have a low pension, there are many too many of them than statistics themselves say. What we can be satisfied is the share of average salaries for those who have retired, the average pensions in the average salary for those who have retired at 40 years of training, it is therefore dependent on how salaries in Croatia have gone on for years or down they will vary and for now it looks relatively good, but it is not good because there is a very small share of those people who are in full retirement and then we return to the '90s when a lot of our people went into forced early retirement. So where, then, they forced themselves to go to early retirement and accept retirement as it is. I think it's obviously time the government thought about correcting itself, correcting pensions, and that those lowest pensions below the poverty line are correcting that they come above the poverty line and that these pensioners have bigger pensions. The borders of poverty and that these pensioners have higher pensions, and this will not be possible through harmonisation, because only the harmonisation of pensions compared to the increase in wages and the increase in the cost of life will only keep that ratio within those borders that exist. But I think at this time when the budget is going well, when our economy is going well I think it's time to start thinking about it too. To praise is the reduction of the number of workers in the Pension Insurance Office, now 2597. I think that trend should continue, because in today's time informing the e-citizen and everything that has been made, so the number of workers can be even smaller. Of course we're not all happy with the number of pensioners compared to the number of employees. There's a colleague of Bunjac right. What is seen is that jobs are not being opened in Croatia and that is what must first be seen through the Pension Insurance Office. So, that the Pension Insurance Institute starts showing statistics in a way that also has a JPPD form, that it can show statistics, the number of employees in relation to them who have a job contract relative to the number of pensioners. I note that in the early 1990s there were nearly 2 million workers a million and 900 thousand, and there were 500 thousand pensioners. And certainly, then, the pension system could have suffered a greater pension increase than it is today. What concerns is the increase in disability pensions by 33% compared to 2015. So, since 2012, we have recorded a constant number of cuts in disability pensions with better organisation and better work. So this 33% is something that you might be worried about. It may also be part of the fact that the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Skill had problems with its stalking work, so they began to come up with solutions. But in any case, there is something that the director should make clear in his report why we have 33% more pensioners. The government boasts that pensions have been harmonised, so this year the highest since 2008 has been increased pensions, but this is due to the increase in wages and cost of life. What started in 2015 is therefore an economic recovery and it is not only due to this government or Oreshkovic's government, it is also the merit of the SDP government that has hit good foundations so that GDP growth and growth of the economy can continue. Again, what the government has to think about must increase overall pensions in a particular procedure. There is a promise from the prime minister that it will increase by 5%, but not by harmonisation, but by 5% to everyone. Therefore, without harmonisation plus harmonisation in relation to the cost of life and the increase in salary. It certainly shows that the Swiss modified formula introduced by the 2014 law has its effect because it holds the percentage of average pensions in the average salary somewhere at the same level, but still not enough to, therefore, be much higher than it is now. 38% is small if we rule out pensions that are on the outside, so what are double pensions. That's 42%. Still not enough. It should be somewhere at about 50%. What interests me and I hope that the director will give me an answer, is that of the 156 participants, so those who have been to professional training how many of them are left working at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Because in experience these are young people who are extremely high-quality, who know how to work, and I'm very interested in whether or not, because I see that there was employment from the total staff in 2016. How many of them were on vocational training, so let's see if the Bureau used that measure the way it should have been used. As far as our own incomes are concerned, we haven't heard a single word from the principal about what we're all worried about, and that's how much money is collected from the salaries, so based on our 15% that we're taking out in the first pension column, let's see, since that's also one of the indicators of whether the economy is recovering. And it is one of the indicators that is more or less employed in Croatia. How much of these funds, so it's coming together. Is that 19, 20, 21 billion? I also expected the director to make it very clear in this report that out of these 39 billion, it is very clear that for pension-related pensions, working pensions that there is a deficit of around 4 billion, and that all other pensions that we call pensions under special regulations are not shortfalls and is not a hole in the pension system, but it is the obligation of the state budget because the state said it would give pensions to people whether they worked or did not work. Therefore, it is not a hole in the pension system, but it is the obligation of the government itself to compensate so much for the pension system, because from the contribution you will never be able to have enough resources to cover those twelve billion. As far as I'm concerned... I think the director is here now in a position to firmly defend his office if he is not afraid of political revenge, that is, since he has come or has not come by political will, as all directors have come by political will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But Villa Idola is an extremely valuable property, which clearly the Bureau didn't have any money. As the Institute has no money to participate in improving the status of retirement homes, because I also saw no note here that the Institute is the owner, I think 10 or 15 retirement homes in Croatia. He is the owner of the nominal grant, therefore, registered as owner, and to care for the home of the pensioner, they are cared for by local self-government. It also elects boards and directors, and when it comes to withdrawing funds from the EU, it cannot because it is not the nominal owner. Therefore, the SDP has referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the transfer of pensioners' home from HZMO to local self-government, with the aim that these pensioners' homes can, therefore, withdraw EU funds for them. And clearly that the Institute must go further, that the Institute must function, in a way that is appropriate, and that means that it must be at our citizens' service, to praise the system of e-citizens and therefore, the system that the SDP government has launched, it continues. The part that is related to the working legal status is developing well, however, I do not understand the idea with the Croatian Post Office, because there are obviously certain things that the pilot is there, but I find it strange that with the Croatian Post office a contract is concluded in this way and costs are generated in HZMO, and that the effect itself is not, because most of these requirements are the requirements of citizens who will not go very quickly into retirement and create burdens for people in the Institute to process demands that really no one will benefit from, only the Croatian Post Office, because for that reason they will receive certain funds, because as far as I know the agreement is such that every request, HZMO pays. What we managed to do with the Croatian Post Office, that we no longer pay so much money to pay off the cash on our hands, so I'm afraid that this is some sort of compensation mechanism, to be respected, compensates for the loss they had, since most pensions are no longer paid through mail. All in all, as the Institute functioned well in its capabilities. We expect that it will continue to develop, and we hope that there will be no return in the work of the Institute itself and the SDP Club will support the reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53781	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Silvan Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53782	Dear fellow Mršić, I would not agree with you, in order to continue this trend of reducing HZMO professionals, because I have information from the field that further reducing a particular structure of HZMO employees will lead to even more lagging behind in solving the case. In fact, there you need, i.e., the business and the gross, human potentials that are needed are lawyers, who are well-acquainted and administrative lawyers who are well aware of the problem and know the system well. I think we have a big problem, because in public competitions, when looking for people with such characteristics, you're looking for at least a year of experience in these jobs that aren't there. And these people also have solid offers from an open labour market, that since they have certain experience and are very suitable for the staff services of stronger companies. We do have a problem. I think you're going to have to think and here talk not about SOR but about membership, that you're going to have to create inside the house these frames, as long as we have people with a lot of experience, not experimenting that someone who's going to come, I don't know, with some other jobs, that they'll certainly be able to jump in and do that job as well as the one that was raised in the Bureau. Or whatever processes he knew from the beginning to the end. And as for Villa Idola, I doubt anyone wanted to give that money, too, that we made a public call. Only she came forward as a candidate for the Poreč Pulski diocese who intends to make it a residential facility, and I'm not familiar with the details of the contract, maybe the director knows something more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53783	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Miranda Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53784	Thank you very much. That's why my question was also addressed to the principal, since it was somewhere in 2015 if he didn't cheat on me, when I read, that there were about 30, 40 employment inside the office, so people who went into retirement, as many of them had completed professional training. I hope most of them were, because you could test them out in that year and see how much who could and allow them to stay in the Bureau. As far as the requirements are concerned, the Bureau has also given a table from which it is clearly seen that in certain district services, i.e. the district offices, we have, therefore, only 8% of the outstanding requirements, while somewhere in some others we have 19, 15 or so obviously there is a disproportionateity in resolving the requirements themselves. What would help, I know, is that it works, so if you submit a request to Zagreb that it can be solved by a lawyer in Osijek, Split or anywhere that is free, I hope that this continues to work, the ESUP system to continue to function. And as for... Clearly, the Institute has no opportunity to finance or rebuild the facility as well as other real estate and the Institute must be resolved practically all real estate because it is not its core business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would only be interested in whether the ministry has assessed this property and whether the Institute for that property will receive adequate compensation or whether it will be the only one, we will give it to one day when the funds are available? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53785	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53786	Thank you very much. A colleague Mrsic, what you pointed out and what is actually one of the biggest problems that bothers us, is the decline of the number of insurance companies with the simultaneous growth of pensioners. If a demographic assessment really occurs that in 2030 we will have less than 3 million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, the question of how pension funding will be provided in the first place. We don't have one piece of information in this report but it's just illustrative because it shows what you were talking about, so in 2008, there were a million and 488 922 workers in legal and physical persons, and now there's a million and 363 997, while the number of pensioners in 2008 is a million and 034 262, and now there's a million and 140 004. So that's exactly the key problem, and right now I don't see any solution being offered.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53787	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53788	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, it is true that this report by the Ministry of Peace clearly shows that jobs are not being opened in Croatia at the rate in which jobs should be expected to be opened. Trend exists, but it is still not enough to come into a position that we can say that we are relieved given the stability of the pension system itself or that the state budget does not transfer so much funds into the pension system itself because it is now very clear that with this number of workers we will not be able to maintain the pension system and that we will constantly resuscitate the first pension column because all transfers in the first pension column are the resolution of the first pension column. What is very clear on the other hand is that we will never have a situation of having two employees on one pensioner because then we should have almost all and a half million employees which is unlikely in terms of demographic policy, given our economy where tourism is one of the biggest employers. Obviously, there is a need to change the paradigm in Croatia and to create jobs in other activities and thus enable young people to stay in Croatia without leaving Croatia. It is absolutely certain that if we do not continue to develop the pension system, yesterday we have received a government decision that refuses to increase the pension allowance of 27% for all those who are now in the first and second pillars, which will lead to these pensioners having far less pensions than they should have. Apparently, the government is against the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53789	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Darko Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, I personally very often talk in this House about information, the necessary need for information in the public administration. I personally believe that the rights of public administration reform will take place when we inform the public administration but in the right sense of that word how it should be informed. I also think that informing is the process and in the country is actually the best form of fighting any form of corruption because when you inform something then you prescribe all the procedures, you input into computers, and there's no room for the creativity that people are willing to do in order to, let's just say, adjust it to themselves. I answered to say, since the E-Citizens and the whole project were mentioned, to praise actually HZMO because in the years when the entire project of E-Citizens was done, HZMO was one of the most active parts of the public administration, or whatever you want, the state and indeed, very much did it and people there were doing this job great and understood what it was doing, why and how it should be. And in principle I think this replica would also like to encourage the new director to continue to work on that path because it's really the right way. In this way they save money, thus saving employees, saving papers, and saving everything else that is spent very often needlessly today. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53791	Thank you very much. Here, there were no questions, but the distinguished representative Mrsic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53792	There were no questions because it was a finding, I think we agree that the Institute was a feather in the E-Citizen, but here from the report I see another thing that is worrying, which is that the Institute is still tied to the IBM platform, for... So, for one platform more rarely than anyone in the world and that the Institute has not made any step to move everything that is related to information technology to the APIS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if the APIS is taxed, if the APIS are voting lists, if there are other parts of the state in the APIS, so the whole budget is there, everything is there, I don't see why our base of workers and pensioners isn't in the APIS. And that leads to that because the old technology to ensure that you give the system itself an update, we have three shifts. So people work in three shifts as in some factory that manufactures, it actually has a great demand. So we pay people to work in 3 shifts and by moving to another platform, to a more modern platform than the IBM masterframe that obviously costs us a lot when, here, there are no reports but I know that we certainly give a lot of millions of a year to IPIS and that we have a platform in APIS that's much cheaper, more modern and where the data will be able to come right away and not that we have to have a third shift that then the base spins overnight to get some data from the base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53793	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next Club of Representatives and that's the HNS on behalf of which... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I didn't see it. Excuse my colleague Shucker. Here's a colleague of Shucker's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53794	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic and I have debated a lot here, and I am actually sorry that you haven't deepened your debate a bit because your debate is being held if certain numerical indicators are added, as if you are filing a debate on behalf of the Institute. So it's something simple that gives us the answer that we're in one big problem with the pension system. So if we had 400, 500 thousand employees more then we wouldn't be talking about all these problems. Convincing each other whether there were 5 or 10 thousand more employees in one term is simply a small political game that cannot solve a big problem. So if we withdraw the parallel of how much tax revenue we have to give to pay off our pensions. And I'm not inclined to share pensions. Why? Because we in this House of Commons have given some rights to someone who has the right to retire, no one has taken it on their own. So the tax revenue to pay out pensions in Croatia is equivalent to 7% of VAT points. And we will have that problem until the moment we cross a million, 700 million employees. However, there is another problem and it is something we always have to discuss when we talk about the report of this Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and also when we talk about the report of compulsory pension funds, which is what brings us the second pillar of pension. Because you know well those who liked to play a little reform of the pension system and when they proposed that second pillar of their pension projection, it was that by 2008, we were going to single out the second pillar of the pension system 10% and not 5%. So I think that when we talk about the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that, regardless of what political option we belong to, we need to open up topics that we all think about equally. And we just can't think any other way. We can't get out of the shoes we're in. But the fact is 400,000 employees solve this problem and solve the health problem. And the question is, can we, after all the debates we have and in this House, get someone to open so many thousands of jobs?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53795	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53796	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Schuker, I'm sorry that you as Minister of Finance did not raise the release to the second pension column at least 7% And you could, you could, and don't say you couldn't. ... [[Intruder Shucker: I couldn't.]] So we wouldn't be having so many problems in the second pillar that we have, so you've gone to 5%, and you've abolished the second pillar, and you've gone to develop it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So that's a very clear fact. And as for the report itself, so I was saying in the report, very balancedly, so the Institute has its role, the Bureau is doing its job, but I am certainly pointing out the problems that the Bureau should solve. And the other problem that breaks through the office is the number of employees. And clearly every policy likes to boast by increasing the number of employees because that's what's relevant. That's when budget revenues grow, it's a sustainable pension system, it's a sustainable health system, but that's why I said that the director in his statistics would have to try to base on how many employees we have working on a contract for a certain or indefinite period of time, and that's why we can talk about the number of employees. Is that bigger now for 10 grand, 15 grand, 20 grand, dear God anyway. I agree with you without 400 or 500 thousand new employees we will not be able to maintain either the pension or the health system and then we come up with problems where these workers, 100 thousand have left Croatia this year, we want to import labour, which workforce, which qualifications, which we will open. It's certainly not a place for tourism, it's not a branch where we can base the safety of the pension and health system. So these are other branches that are much more important than tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53797	Thank you. Now, we're going to have a distinguished representative, Peric, who had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53798	Oh, here's just my colleague Mrsic, I'd like to point out one more time and you mentioned it but a little bit of authority, that actually about 69,000 pensioners have a pension of over 4100 kuna, which is 71% of the average net salary. So that and such pensioners have actually made and earned their pension because they have over 40 years of standing. If we turn that into a euro, it's over 550 euros a month, which we should actually strive for. If we compare ourselves with Slovenia whose lowest pension is 500 euros, then we should really seek to make as many residents and employees as possible in the retirement group that makes those pensions come true. And unfortunately, we are still in that status that over 320 thousand of our pensioners have pensions from 2000 to 3000 kuna. So, what I'm trying to say is all of this is that both fellow Shucker and you and I need to strive to increase the actual number of employees, so that we can make all these other misunderstandings right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53799	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53800	I agree with you that we shouldn't, so we should increase the number of employees, but we shouldn't increase the number of pensioners more than the natural course. And in the Defense Act, we are now going to create another privileged group of pensioners who will receive a basic pension, at least that's how it is in the proposal with basic pensions and that extra because they were defenders. It is therefore another cost for the budget that it will have to, because it cannot be alimated from the contribution to the salary. Therefore, we must be careful when we suggest here in the Parliament that we do not do the opposite of what we think is right. At this point, the situation is what it is. It is necessary to seek to create new jobs, to strive to make people work as much as possible, but it should also be possible for them when they can no longer work at their workplace to work elsewhere, not to go to early retirement, not to go to disability pensions. It's right somewhere from 70% is the average pension, the average salary for those who worked 40 years and over, and they're only 12 or 15%. It's 70% in Germany. And that's it. So, we, so the HDZ government's decisions were privatization in the 1990s. People went into early retirement. They're early retirement now, and that's why our average age is, then you have defenders. So that is why our average retirement age is extremely low, and then you have to defend it against Europe because Europe is not clear. And that's what we need to talk about, that we don't create new groups of privileged pensioners, because there are no more parliamentary pensions. This part that's tied to the military and the police will probably go into professional retirement. And so let's not create new pensioners there we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53801	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the distinguished representative of the Goddess Makar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Only the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's report is technically done correctly and professionally. We see that there continues to be a trend in the reduction in the number of staff in the office, so at the end of 2016, compared to 2015, the number of employees was reduced by 84. This must have contributed to the information and rationalisation of the business itself and is still expected to be present. Therefore, the reduction in the cost of employees as well as other material costs, but of course with retaining the professional and quality of the business of the office. Here I also commend the system of e-citizens in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which has started since 2013, and I must say that every year it is getting better despite these remarks which are being used by the system. We believe that the Institute worked well because in 2016 there were 530,000 requirements for pension insurance rights and extras for children of whom more than 450,000 requirements were resolved or 86% with 70,000 being transferred, so it is satisfying the degree of resolution of these cases. What is really important to us in this report is the state of pension insurance, pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity. I won't talk about pension insurance based on individualised capitalised savings or so on. The second pillar is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but is very important for our pensioners especially for future pensioners and their pensions. In 2016, a million 223,000 pensioners and a million 440 thousand insurance companies were registered in the office. That's 1:1,17. It is better than 2014 when it was 1:1,14 or in 2015. 1:1,15. I'd like to remember those nice beginnings of the 1990s in this regard when we had as fellow Mrsic had already said close to 2 million employees and 500 thousand pensioners, or it was 1:4 ratio. This is the ratio in which we can only dream today and certainly will not happen again in Croatia. Today, the situation is far worse than the one shown for 2016 because here I referred the question of whether the 250,000 insurance companies receiving the salaries from the state budget are included. So it's not a novelty, it's not about real sector employees, it's about people who are employed in the real sector, it's about those where in the state budget we write debt demand, that's about the income and expenditure side, so the ratio if we subtract that we have a million and 200 thousand insurance companies somewhere, and millions of 223 thousand pensioners, so below is the ratio of 1:1. The problem is a large number of disability pensions. Croatia had the highest number of disability pensions watching the average in Europe. This trend was halted in 2010, especially in the last 4 years by applying stricter criteria for the assessment of working ability. We're not against disability pensions, because anyone who's lost their job has to get a disability pension. But we all remember well the reasons why everything was going into invalid retirement and even crimes related to the recognition of these pensions. Although the number of disability pensions has increased compared to 2015, we can still talk about an average of 2770 new users per year. I personally believe that the reason for the increase is precisely more intensive work of the Institute of Arts although it is not mentioned in this report. If we look at the structure of the pensioners, we have 602000 users of retirement, with an average internship of 31 years and an average age of 71 years 10 months. 180000 people prematurely with an average internship of 36 years, 130000 disabled pensioners with an average duration of 22 years and 228000 family pensioners. A large number of young pensioners are still present. The maximum number of pensioners is 65-69 years of age or 258 which accounts for 23% of the total number. However, there is a large number of pensioners from 60-64. There's 186,000 or 16%. We're talking pensions, and I'm sure nobody's happy about that. Everyone thinks they're too low and they're really too low, for covering and even the basic cost of living, they're not enough. But we need to be aware of our reality. And the reality is, we have too few employees, who pay pension contributions. On a significant increase in pensions, we will be able to think, only when the number of insurance companies is significantly increased. There must certainly be an increase in the number of insurance companies from 100,000 to more, as only 100,000 will not contribute significantly. Is that possible? So you need to work on investments, you need to work on opening new jobs. But will there be anyone working in those jobs? The fact is that we already have a situation, that in many employment offices, there are no registered workers who could fill out certain jobs. For some reasons, there are those who cannot accept the offer offered for employment. It is true that the number of residents, namely, insurance workers in Croatia, is decreasing year by year. These sad but irrefutable facts we're all aware of. In a short period, we cannot expect any improvements on the demographic picture of Croatia, which would change this situation. It is necessary to keep every citizen of ours, to keep working in Croatia, but it can only be better paid. It means better jobs and better living conditions. In addition, the most serious need to start thinking about accepting labour from other countries, because only in this way, we will be able to maintain this pension system. If there is a need for an increase in pensions, it is necessary. And that it takes every year and according to this formula and finds new opportunities, because we are all aware of how our pensioners live, it is necessary. However, a more significant increase is certainly not possible, because we are aware of how full the first pillar pension fund is, as far as it still stands out directly from the state budget, our pensions are still low. And again I return to that pension level because the average retirement pension paid for December 2016 was 2482 kn or 42.5% of the average net salary. If we exclude pensions resulting from international social insurance contracts, then the average pension is 2828 kn or 48%. The report states that if we take an average adult pension for a full-time working life, which is usually stated in international publications, it is equal to 4184 kn or 71.67% of the average salary. These amounts to many pensioners seem unrealistic. Although it's really not about some high average pensions. Surely 2482 kn looks a lot for the 94645 pensioners who receive less than 500 kn. There are many of our farmers who have spent a small number of years in insurance. And that's why most of them are now receiving a pension of about £400 and £500. But they need to live too, they need to settle the basic costs of their lives. And we need to find a way to give them a decent life. More than 320,000 of our pensioners receive a pension of up to 1500 kn. Most pensioners, 28 receive pensions between 2000 and 3000 kn. And in all this statistical data, if we look at it, women's pensions are the lowest again. They're lower than average, they're lower because they've worked their entire working life in an intensive shoe industry, the textile industry, where their salaries were lower than average. Now they have a pension really unworthy of life. They won't look back anymore, because I think both men and women, and I'm sure they should have equal pensions and be equally paid for their work. In retirement it was, but unfortunately, their wages were less. And at the end of the HZMO report, we can be satisfied, because as I said, the Institute is doing well, the report was made professionally. But we cannot be satisfied with the situation in the pension system. But that doesn't change in the Bureau, the club of representatives of the HNS will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53803	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first of which is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53804	Thank you very much. I love these discussions about the pension system, because the area I'm studying is, and I wouldn't want this to be outwitting who's nicer, who's smarter, but we can get richer in the experience of interpreting these data and what's causing it, and what's the consequences. In fact, I would dare say that for a good salary and a long-term internship we have in the Republic of Croatia and a solid pension. She's not too big, but she's solid for those, for working at work and for many years if she's been working. However, we have another problem, if you look at the statistics, I have the latest ones in front of me because the Croatian Pensions Office has every monthly updated data and you can freely use it on their website. So we have at this point something that is very, very accusing for our past 25 years, we have 234 thousand 960 users of the lowest pension. This means that the contributions were paid below, i.e. very small and the salaries below the table, that the contributions were not paid, so they were all those to whom the state, so the contributions were so small that the state protects them with a minimum pension provision of 61.36 kuna per year of internship, below which no one can have. But this result of these lowest pensions, these are not the lowest pensions of 300 or 500 kuna before '99, these are these 25 years. That says why we have a system like this. These are the consequences of not paying and devastation of the pension system for 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53805	Thank you. The answer to the honourable MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53806	Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Hrelja, I know how much knowledge you have, how much information on this subject. And I'm always happy to listen to you. In fact, what you said only complements my knowledge. And I have to figure out with 71% of the pension that's on average is a solid percentage. The fact that the situation in Croatia is the other thing is that it is not a higher amount. And as for these lowest pensions, I'm still standing on it because I know it's about pensions that haven't really been paid, and I said that the short retirement period was, like, a small number of years and that they're so low. And if there were other situations when part of it was paid from minimum wage to account, the rest as you say under the table, it probably was. I hope that there is less and less, or that there is no more because our people are also aware that it is still going into costs and that there is both fiscalization and everything and that there is no more money to be found to pay off on black and that at least from that point of view, the situation will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53807	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53808	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Makar, it is unusual to listen to a parliamentary representative pour crocodile tears over the fate of the pensioners, saying that he cannot live with 500 kunas and really cannot live, it is an absolutely impossible mission. With 500 kunas a month, you can't even eat, let alone afford anything else. And then he says, "Dear representative," but that's reality. Be careful what a person who has monthly incomes of 20 thousand kunas tells pensioners and what I can do for you, and that is, you have to get used to it. But here I have a concrete solution for us to say to the honourable representative, in fact to all MPs in the House, to cut our salaries to 500 kuna and tell them that this is a reality so long as they find legal solutions and amendments to improve the position of pensioners. And I guarantee you, in that case, we would have so many laws in this House by 1.11. So many creative proposals, so many fights, so many speeches, so many breaks that it would be something amazing. And I guarantee you that within a few weeks the pension would increase, the legislation would be better, so that there would be no more talk about realities than the necessity and that finally the pensioners would have better days. In this way, speaking to people who can barely make ends meet that it's their reality, it's really not right, it doesn't show our solidarity and empathy, and it actually sends a very bad message to all those voters who unfortunately voted for this coalition that is now in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53809	Thank you. The answer to the honourable MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's a friend of yours. Here, if it'll solve our pensioners' problem, I believe we'll all raise our hands in Parliament to work for 500 kuna. Please calculate what that is. What you're saying is that I'm crying, I'm not crying, I'm aware of the situation, and I'm aware of the reality of our funding system and what we have and what we can pay our pensions from. The way these people live, I know my mom belongs to those who are receiving 490 kuna pensions and I know how she lives and I know I've been helping her for the past 20 years. And that's not the solution, but it's still to say that you suggest something concrete to fill that pension fund, get rid of it, here's the real deal. You normally propose a lot of laws, then I believe they'll come within the next month, I guess that's how much you need that law. I don't know in any other way than what I was talking about in my debate, which is possible to significantly improve the status of our pensioners, or increase pensions. I'm certainly up for it, for that. I'm about to maximise what is possible, within the framework of an existing, but some significant increase without what I've stated, I'm sure it's impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53811	Thank you very much. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, speak to the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53812	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we have this report on the work and business of HZMO, and I am very glad that we got this report in hand because it tells us a lot of things not only about pensioners but actually about the policy of this government, and finally that report that we heard yesterday from the prime minister where he boasts about increasing employment. And now from this report we see how he came up with these alleged positive statistics. He was using exactly the data, so HZMO data where he showed the insurance company as workers, I was just talking about it, and that's just not true, because that number includes people even those who are unemployed. So unemployed people, people in vocational training, means 15 thousand of them and also people who get copyright fees. So they're not workers, they're people who are temporarily on a job or maybe just a month, two at a job, and then they're shown as some workers for a whole year. The prime minister and his ministers claim that in the last two years 53,000 newly employed people in Croatia have appeared, however, it has not. According to statistics from the State Statistics Office, the number of workers has dropped by 26 thousand over the past two years. So it didn't increase, it decreased by 26 grand. At the same time as the number of workers decreased by 26, the number of pensioners increased by 100,000. So 100,000 pensioners more, 26 thousand less. And that specifically means that this ratio of pensioners and workers has worsened in the last two years, which is the two that the HDZ governments and their prime ministers have come from far away. Now if we have an employee and one pensioner in Croatia, which is basically only in these counties that are a little bit better developed, in some of the counties that are underdeveloped, the number of persons employed is smaller than the number of pensioners, so that we can achieve a sustainable pension system. Here, for example. The average salary is gross 7, 8 thousand kuna and if 15% is singled out, that means that the monthly amount is 1100 to 1200 kuna in the pension fund. How can an employee with 1100 kuna who sets out in the first pillar pay a pension to a pensioner who, for example, receives a pension of these 2,200 or 2,300 kuna, how much is the average pension? It's an impossible mission. So it can't be given two with 1,000 kuna. And then what happens? Then what happens is that every year, we actually have about 40 to 45% of the pension money missing. It's our cruel and dreary reality. 40 to 45%. How that money is obtained should be asked Minister Maric. He's getting out-of-the-way debt. This government in 3 years plans to be in charge of 178 billion kuna. Here is the honourable MP Makar, right now I am offering you an answer to the question you asked 5 minutes ago to offer a solution, it must change economic and monetary policy and Croatia should stop living on debt because if we have to borrow 178 billion to pay for pensions and to work at all, then the problem is much deeper than in the pension fund itself or in the laws concerning pensioners. We also find out from this report where the government is hiding the unemployed. The government will tell you how successful we are, so in the last two years 90 thousand unemployed are less. I don't know, 260 grand, now there's 170. And from this report, we see that the number of active populations, meaning people between the ages of 20 and 65, is shrinking in the last two years by 120,000. So the 120 thousand working-age population is less. Where are these people and did they get a job? Yes, but where? In Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia and other countries. Therefore, there was a reduction in the number of unemployed, not because the government was doing something smart, but because people moved out and that Croatia today has 120,000 less active people than it was in 2015. What else can we see in this report? So in this report, we can see that Croatia has a huge number of disability pensions, about 50% to 60% more than the EU average, which also shows the government policy that went after people who couldn't find a job, to provide them with some kind of pension. So then people get pensions, as we heard 490 kunas, 500 kunas, and someone said, they get them in the social aid rank. Unfortunately, social aid is a wealth compared to the pensions many people receive because 800 kuna is a dream for many pensioners who will probably never experience life. They don't know, 300, 400, not to mention that many older people over 65 don't have any peace offerings, but no pensions, one kuna. I hope you've met such a person when we're talking about some other examples. I talked to the person who said, I'd be happy if I had 100 kn, I don't have one right now. And it's really a question of how these people live who have so little pensions. Here, I call on my fellow parliamentary representatives, who talk about some reality, right. Let's go now, when this session is over, here I'll take you, MPs Macar or anyone else, to the first garbage can on Jelačić's salary, we'll stand for 20 minutes, let's stop 3.4 pensioners who will soon show up next to that bucket, and ask them how they live. And we're going from our corner. People who receive huge, huge wages, wages, compared to what most people do, and let's just say, hey, you see, and that's your reality. Push your hand in and find a bottle of 50 limes, if you're lucky, and before you know it, 20 people tried it the same way. So, the government, it doesn't solve the pensioner's problem. I could really solve it, if it had reduced the number of unemployed, it could have solved it if it had increased employment, but we can see that the government didn't do it and these are the defeating figures, which we today, the day after the prime minister's report here, have to face. So, the number of unemployed didn't shrink, people moved out. The number of employees, not increased, but decreased, and statistics were cut by the basis of this report, which insurance wants to portray as people who are employed. There are solutions, yes, more for the pensioners. Here, today will be one of the solutions on the agenda, the legislative proposal submitted by the Live Wall and the SNAGA's Representatives Club, means we offer solutions. You'll see how many MPs there will be in that debate. As many as can be counted on the fingers of 2 hands, 7, 8 where a solution is offered for pensioners, among other things, to stop robbing Croatian citizens, which is the Consumer Protection Act. How many people will be there then to face that reality? Very little. It's only important to come to the vote tomorrow at 12 o'clock and say we're against it. And some pensioners face reality. Also, when we talk about pensioners, it is very important to mention that they are also under unbearable pressure from banks, claims agencies, that they are constantly being compensated. I don't know if you know it, but from the second pension stake, the banks will take 30% of your funds if you want those funds to be inherited, and it's said to come from automation. 10% will take your banks to pay 3 retirement pillars voluntarily, that's the same data that's being kept secret, and then all the way to the most banal fees of what's like 50 kn to pay your pension on your hands, which you used to do... I would like to ask MPs and directors personally, if there is any possibility that payment of pensions through mail is charged in the same amount as at least the bank's fee, and preferably without it, as it once was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now in the end, we come to perhaps the most difficult fact, which is particularly necessary, to raise awareness of these turbonationalists, what do we see that more and more after the Parliament is nothing, and how are we really going to find these 40,000 workers, who are desperately missing, that one day we finally have a sustainable pension system? One way is, therefore, I repeat, changing economic and monetary policy, for the CNB to take an active role in managing the economy, and another more gloomy way, is the one that mentioned the MP just before, which is immigration. Immigration. And who's going to move in with us if it really leads to that? Only those citizens who have less salaries in their countries will move in than in Croatia. And who are these citizens? Of course, citizens of BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia. Since they do not have an obstacle to language, in some ways it will be logical. The moment I mentioned these countries joining the EU, then all of them will have to be allowed to work in the Republic, just as Croatians are allowed to work in Germany or other countries, and then eventually, all those who swore so much that they did not want to be in the Balkans, eventually Croatia will be more in the Balkans than it was in Yugoslavia. It will be the perfect irony of a failed policy, which has an arm on its heart, when it speaks of Croatia, but which, in substance, does nothing at all, to build the one Croatia we dreamed of and what generations of its citizens fought for. For that reason, the Live Wall and Power Club will not accept this report. Not because maybe I'm the Pension Insurance Office doing something wrong, but in principle, because someone has to be against this kind of government work, society as a whole. Someone has to say, it's enough, and here, if we want to warn in this way that Croatia has no future in such a policy with such an economy and behaviour as it has had in the last 27 years. I hope that at least someone will get to the ears of this appeal and trust the appeal of most Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53813	Thank you. We've got three replicas. She's the first distinguished representative of the Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I have listened very carefully to what you will teach me this time and in your answer, in fact give me guidelines in which direction you will continue to work on solving our pensioners' problems. And I wasn't surprised when your conclusion was that it was all CNB's fault. Because in fact, in every debate you've had and those phrases and that pulsism and everything, for 27 years it hasn't worked out well and you're a savior now and we really expect you to save us. But what I would ask of you right now and ask you to publicly tell all our authors of music, our writers, our drama artists, art artists, you are unemployed. You're not workers, you're unemployed, even though you're paying, but you can't get into it. I also ask you to say that the unemployed and those persons who are on vocational training, who regularly come to work, are making every effort to collect knowledge as soon as possible so that they can do their jobs in quality, but please confirm once again, and you are unemployed because that's exactly what you presented in your discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53815	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53816	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, at least you don't know what you'd say, so then you're trying to invent some kind of effective answer. You know very well what kind of worker I was thinking, of course every man does something. Even the unemployed are doing something. He probably doesn't know, he cooks lunch, cleans the house, so we all do something. But the official legal worker is the one who has a contract on work. So the labor contract, it's ultimately a worker and you can't put unemployed people like us, insurance companies, under workers. It just doesn't make sense. Look at the statistics of the National Statistics Service, let Branimir Bunjac speak. Give me a dial so there's a hundred yards down from us is this state-owned office on Jelačić Square. So go and ask them how many Croatian workers there are. And as for politics towards the CNB, here's a review of the case of the Czech Republic. You're old enough to remember what it was like when you traveled to the Czech Republic 30, 40 years ago, you were a queen to them, like you had the standard, how much money you had in your pocket, the Czech Republic was like some African country, poor. Go to the Czech Republic now, and compare your standard with theirs. Does the Czech Republic have the euro? What policy does the Czech National Bank run? Does the Czech Republic have more imports or exports? What's the unemployment rate there? How is it possible that this country has reached us so many times in such a short time? So we're not talking about how we're going to get, I don't know, the favor of the voter's work, but we're using very clear exact indicators, and on that basis, I'm just going to offer an alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53817	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I will take the principle of the word you used to agree with you on statistics because all politicians like to interpret the statistics on bikinis, to like to highlight what is attractive and to hide what is important. So there's nothing new here. But something that is, you are simultaneously making proposals that are completely opposed to the functioning of the pension system. So you wouldn't be in charge of paying your pension, but you'd be hiring, and until then, those pensioners you're sorely crying over, they'd starve to death. So to be clear, pension law, monetary pensions, is not savings in the first degree of generation solidarity, that's the right that workers make to pay contributions. And by making a contribution every month from pay, we create a level of rights. Come on, you tell me, who has the right to take someone's level of law that's been created for 20, 30, 40 years? Who's right? And is that a laugh? It's a debt to generations that have worked and created all of what we have today and even what we have broken down by bad policies. But they have no right, someone to question whether they'll have money for pensions. What is lacking in the pension system or through the payment of contributions must be settled from other tax revenues of the Republic of Croatia. Amen, period, there is no dilemma. And what you said you'd be against in principle is precedent because it's disrespecting 2,500 and so many HZMO employees who are really at the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53819	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53820	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hrelja, no one spoke of pensions being reduced, if you listened to my speech a little more carefully, I always advocate that they increase dramatically, or that they lead to the level that pensioners can existentially survive the month without additional borrowings. However, it is that there are ways to pay these pensions and without external borrowing. You have an example. When she mentions MP Makar HNB, you have in the CNB tens of billions of kuna retained profits, meaning retained profits. You know what it takes? All it takes is for the prime minister to sign one piece of paper and that debt will be poured into the budget. And here's already a lot of funding to partially ease that pension deficit. But of course he'll never do it. They won't do it simply because they run politics in the interests of foreign banks and foreign centres of power. Let's give me a country in Europe, a world where 99% of the banking sector is in foreign hands. So who let that happen? So how is that possible? Well, it wasn't I don't know, it wasn't in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, I don't know which country, I guess in that Congo it wasn't in that state and we have it. And now we're saying that borrowing is the only way we have left. I can't agree with that finding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53821	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the first thing I'd like to do is correct an incorrect quote. So that's where the esteemed representative said the number of pensioners increased by 100,000. So if you look at HZMO statistical information for the 3rd month of 2015 then there were pensioners on all grounds, so you have to add up a million and 225 thousand 255 and at the end of 2016 million 223 thousand 275. So that information is simply, what you said is simply not true. Another thing I'd like to say, I'd like to say something about the very genealogy of the intergenerational solidarity system in the circumstances in which it came into being. So he continued at the end of the 19th century, at the time of Bismarca in 1889, but then the situation in general was both economic and demographic completely different from today, this must be considered. In particular, it was then retired at the age of 70 and not 65 and the average life span was about 50 years. So the ratio of pensioners and workers then, or workers, or pensioners were even 4:1, means not even 2:1, or 1.5:1, but almost 4:1. So that this structure has changed irreversibly, and that kind of problem is actually all of the Western world's Member States, meaning the extension of life span, demographic ageing, etc. And that's all things to consider. So this problem is not unique for Croatia only, of course, Croatia because of the economic situation may be in a worse position than some other countries. But this system, as originally imagined in these present circumstances, simply cannot function and therefore transfers from the budget are needed. And finally, one thing that is mentioned, which concerns the Czech Republic, and I think it should be fair to say that the Czech Republic did not have a war, did not have a renewal that practically Croatia financed itself, so that these comparisons are not exactly appropriate in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53823	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53824	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sokol, therefore, I read in the report here in chapter 2 that in 2016 a total of 49 thousand 995 users who had the right to retire achieved the first time. So I was using the official data that was reported in this report. As for people having to work longer and longer, it's unfortunately bitter truth and you're actually representing that theory that he gave to the German Institute that should be extended I don't know until 73 years of work. It actually suggests the fact that a very large number of people will never have a pension and those who experience it will enjoy it for maybe a few years and that's it. One smaller number of course experiences 100 years, but most people of course don't. And that's sad. Not so long ago, at least women retired from I don't know 55, 60 years. Is it really necessary for us all to do up to 73, which is all, can a man physically endure working at such a late age? And as for the issues of the Czech Republic, you say the Czech Republic had no war, I would remind you that the Czech Republic was occupied in 1968 by a Soviet army that was much more rigid than the JNA Army, that the Czech Republic was literally exploited as a colony, that they had no independence and that they could also calmly say that they had suffered even more damage in some way than we have. It is therefore very comparable in Croatia with the situation in the Czech Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53825	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53826	We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representative Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53827	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Director of the Pension Insurance Office. Here is a report for 2016 that I think is already in the debate most of the speakers and praised as one serious, quality prepared report from which you can really get all the information about the state of the pension system, but also everything the Pension Insurance Office does, which deals with business. It means from the regular business of pension, the exercise of pension rights, child allowances, the implementation of international contracts and EU rules, legal transactions and all others, the care of human potential, governance, property management. It's all done really in accordance with the law, with here's the dynamics, the deadlines as planned. So I don't think there's any need to repeat too much of what's already been said. But here's maybe just a few things that I think are kind of important for once again emphasized, and that's that ratio that is now 1 to 1 17 which is of course going towards... growth in the number of insurance companies per million and 440 thousand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is one positive piece of information. What is important means that 20.2 billion funds are made out of contributions and 18.3 billion from the state budget. And what's also important is that the share of pension expenditure in GDP is 11.29% lower than it was in previous years, which actually speaks of a slightly better situation and an increase in income. The reduction in the number of employees by 3.13% also has data, which may be this good in terms of cost reduction, but of course, it is also important to guide the quality of work of the Institute itself, i.e. all its branches. What's important, that number of insurance companies of a million and 440 thousand, is 73% of people under 50 years of age. The average retirement pension of 2482 kn is of course small and we all agree with that, but of course it is a reflection of the pension experience that these persons and citizens actually achieved in their working life. Someone here may be a few years old, someone has a 20, 19 of course they can't have, but what's relevant to me is an average retirement pension for 40 years of retirement, means full pension, which is 4184 kn and of course it's now 71.6% net salary in the Republic of Croatia. That's the data that might actually give the picture. Of course we're all aware that a large number of our pensioners don't have this much internship... years for various reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we're all dissatisfied, of course with the lowest pensions of these 234,000 people, who have very little pensions, and unfortunately thanks to the likely consequences of the war, the destroyed economy, one part of the poor privatisation and conversion that led to the failure to pay or that they did not exercise these pension rights. The peace settlements in 2016 were harmonised on 2 occasions. Of course, it's not that big a deal, but what's important is that it's run... And I believe that every year these coordinations will be increasingly high-quality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The average retirement pension rate is growing at 31 years old and this is an increase and it is very important data. I don't think I'm stalling any longer, that we can say that already in the real year of the mandate and the HDZ government we see these positive trends, which I'm sure for 3 years will lead to a significant number of employees and, of course, to an increase in pensions, because we all expect this and here because of this very serious quality report and this institution that is truly worthy of respect for all of us, the HDZ Club will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53828	I would like to thank my colleague, Mladen Krlić, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53829	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Director, there is no colleague, then colleagues, there is not much of us, but it doesn't mean that I will speak less of this report, because it's an area that I sort of keep track of. So it's in the focus of my political interest. And what I must say here is that Mr. Josip Aladrovic, the youngest director in HZMO history so far. So, it has the honor, I think next year to celebrate the 95th anniversary of the beginning or this year, the 95th anniversary of the creation of HZMO, so, one institution, which at the time, when there was one pensioner and 5 workers, 5 insurance companies, built a lot of things in Croatia, from their buildings, to their health homes, to the homes of pensioners, to the granting of loans, therefore, to companies, or companies. So there was a period, and I guess that was not, I don't suppose, but that was a full 70 years more income than expenditure. There is therefore a generation debt to both this institution and those pensioners who then worked and created. So we have to look at this vital old man with special attention, because he won't exist so soon. In fact, HZMO will exist as long as there is insurance and pension payments based on generation solidarity. And now she's a slightly lower rate of contribution is 15% compared to the previous 20%. Of course this is a standard, standard HZMO business report in 2016, and this is still not the director's report, it's Mr. Bulaya's report. We are in a much better position than the last time, when in 2015, in some way we defended the report, which neither director nor director, for which they were not responsible, nor knew what it was like to have come to its finalisation. So, I wish him next year, here in front of the Croatian Parliament, he has his own report, a report that he will control from the beginning to the end. Of course, and I want better parameters next year than they've ever been. It is certain that the figures will be better, as much as they will be in the value system, as much as they will be worth, as much as our pensioners will be able to buy for it, how much better they will live it is, that time will show. But the law is the law, the Retirement Insurance Act and the other laws impose the rights of our citizens. And HZMO is here to guard, to safeguard their scope of rights, so to make sure they don't devastate insurance rights, to make all preparations for their pensions to be paid out of the Treasury, or out of the state budget, and that's one very serious and responsible job. Of course, I have witnessed the last 13 years of HZMO's progress that, with fewer employees, a greater number of jobs and quality work have been done. Yes, and in the case of hawari in certain district offices, they jumped in to help each other and moved forward. Something had stalled the issue of disability pensions, that is, skills, and that has now begun in some ways. What is to say and here is mentioned today and not yet denied, perhaps the director wants to reject it eventually but the fact is that something has not been done during the term of his colleague Mrsic so that we today have about 300 thousand disability pensions but then we have entered into the process of translating disability pensions into retirement pensions and this process is still going on. In doing so, no one has harmed them unless someone in a city has given them benefits based on receiving disability pensions rather than actual disability or physical damage. But it's not competent, it's not systematic, it's not a systematic mistake. Of course, I am particularly proud of some products provided by HZMO that can be read freely and every citizen can read them on their websites, so their statistics and information is good. Anyone can suspect it, as well as his colleague Bunjac suspected, but I think they would have removed it very quickly, especially in the context of the 2016 report, because in 2016, pensioners who worked in the work contract did not pay contributions and could not at the same time be insurance and pensioners. Therefore, I hope there are safeguards that can't be confused with that data. So, at this point all you want to know, everything that's interesting and attractive you'll find on two pages you just need a little search for them, not exactly what you notice at first glance, on two pages you'll know all the most intense data that is updated monthly on the state of the pension system. And about the average pensions and the number of pensioners, etc. But I wouldn't talk about it because you can always do better, you can always do better. I'd like to make some recommendations. So first of all, it's envious to communicate with citizens' enquiries. So all the citizens of the future pensioners ask for a very quick answer, get both calculations and recommendations is to start preparing documentation as early as possible to make it easier to calculate pensions. But I think that HZMO as that vital old man, exactly what Mr. Director says should be repositioned in general in Croatian society, is being marginalized in some way. Like they're going to crush it inside themselves, they don't need anything, etc. It's not true they don't need anything. Few people know they have to keep the paperwork for 75 years. Few people know that they have problems with fire protection in their facilities. Few people know that their HZMO facilities are under cultural protection to call it protected goods. Few people know there's a problem with archiving. Few people know that they have very few air-conditioned spaces, modern offices, etc., and that I am not talking about tailored facilities for access to people with disabilities. So these are all positions where HZMO needs certain actions, certain state aid because he himself can't. If nothing else, I recommend the Director to make one deal that everything that is not core business is in its formal or any property to move it away from itself without asking the state to solve two regional centres with new functional facilities each year. Because building new functional objects would cost less than being in this law-protected facility. All in terms of easier provision of services to citizens, removing architectural barriers to older people and people with disabilities. Here, when a debate is being held, instead of discussing HZMO, there is always a debate on the pension system, on justice, injustice, etc.. So the pension system is among other things a pillar of social security in the Republic of Croatia. But he's not the only one. The peace system was simple, two-stage or three-stage, nor could it solve the problem of poverty in the Republic of Croatia. None of the three pillars for those who will not have enough internships, i.e. have low pensions, low contributions, low wages, irregular salaries, incomplete work hours, none of those three pillars will be able to secure pensions in the future as they are intended to be security for age and disease. That question answers the pension system itself cannot give. It's a matter of social protection, it's a matter of health care, it's a question of parental responsibility, children's parents. But again, I will say something that, which is a little bit of a thought, and I expect perhaps in the repositioning of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, that its experts who are less and less respected are feeling it because I am following the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute through the years, and this is not a characteristic of just one government but of all governments in continuity, that experts from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office who should assess the sustainability of such a system and the fairness and equality of those insurance companies are not sufficiently respected. But I think they can contribute to the fight against poverty. For example, if pension is insurance for age and illness, if I read earlier in the replica that we have 234 000 and 960 at this point in the lowest pensions. Among them are the early ones, among them and the premature ones. You know, I was counting the other day that a 30-year pension is the lowest pension of 1860 kuna. But if someone goes 5 years early because they have to go on their own free will, then it's down to 360 kuna, or 20%. He's got everything in 30 years an internship of 1,500 kuna. I ask you whether it is polite to think and whether it would be okay to think in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, that those people who had to retire after 5 years or at the latest in the 1970s are eliminated, you know these 360 kunas. It may not mean that much to us here, but trust these people means a terrible, terrible lot. Secondly, what I advocate is what Minister Mrsic started, but before the end of the term, can we and how different can we arrange family pensions? In fact, we are one of the few countries that has, in the case of family pensions, either 70% more pensions of the deceased spouse or stay in their pension and lose this second pension. Most countries have a system to add up the total number of internships, the total number of years of internships, and to determine your pension plus part of your deceased spouse depending on when the circumstance of death occurred. I think these are the elements that we must think of as one serious Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, that it must be a more active participant in the creation of pension policies. I referred one of my questions with my colleague, Pejo Grbin, to them today in the procedure, which is a question of credible interpretation of Article 3. The law of the supplement. That'll get to them for sure. And the idea is that for years spent in the first pillar, insurance companies get 27%, because in no article, no law says that they can't get it. Thank you very much. Otherwise forgive the Vice President, or I'll just say that the club of representatives of GLAS and the Croatian Retired Party will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53830	I thank my colleague Silvan Hrelja. We have one replica. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53831	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hrelja, here you are talking about the highest and lowest pensions. Since the director did not answer, I believe that you will know because the public is interested in how much is the lowest Croatian pension, and how high is it? And then another question since the prime minister boasted yesterday about how pensions grow. How many kunas after Plenkovic's increase were secured by the pensioner with the lowest pension, and how much did he get with the highest pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53832	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The answer of my colleague Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53833	Thank you. There is no minimum pension in Croatia in absolute terms. There are 61.3 kunas per year of internship. This is the level if the worker also paid less, it is the level of the lowest pension and it has been so since 1999. Before that, there were some different lowest pensions. The highest pension is 3.8 times the current pension value for the 1.62. So you multiply 62 times 3.8 times the year of internship. It doesn't, there isn't a single highest pension because it depends on years of internships that someone has. So we left those institutes in 1999. And to be exact, of course, at this point is the average pension including what you asked for a raise, or an indexation of 2.1%. At this point, it's 2000, an average of 2314 kuna and it's exactly somewhere around 47 kuna has been given someone who has had an average pension. The math and the calculation could tell how much he got the one with 1500 kuna, but he got it and you know it well 30 kuna. So these are calculations. Of course, for these lowest, it is not enough, but it can also be solved if GDP grows by extraordinary alignment that would go according to social criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53834	I would like to thank my colleague Hrelja for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53835	Thank you very much. Well, here I have one of my own consultants, volunteers. I was 10 years old, but by energy, believe me, he's a young man. It's Professor Vinko Bajrović Capi from Split. And so he consults the SDPs with us every now and then. So he sent a few sentences on this occasion, so here I will share them with you and with the viewers who are watching this debate because indeed Professor Bajrović is deep in this topic. There is time, an analysis of it all the time, and I believe that he could also help the director who presented some information today with his advice. Among other things, what Professor Bajrovic said, according to data from the end of 2016, there were 241 thousand 860 unemployed, 10600 employees who do not receive salaries from their 3423 employers. And he hopes that today our debate will at least for a moment ignore Todorovic, Agrokor, Zdravko Marić, real estate tax, MOL, travellers' transit at the border, Jasenovac, border arbitration with Slovenia, Frljić's play "Our Violence and Your Violence", Vigilar nebulose etc. What we agreed here today is that the ratio of insurance and pensioners is becoming more tragic, and the life of many pensioners is humiliating compared to pensions. The review of the insurance companies according to the basics of the pensioners and their relationship expressed in proportion, if we look at 2002, 2008 and 2016, is particularly significant. We've heard it a few times today, so let me rephrase that now the ratio is 1.17. So for one pensioner, it's 1.17 insurance. Unfortunately, however, as things stand very quickly, it could be 1:1, and in no case will it be promising for the retirement population. Very interesting figures that Prof. Varovic sends. I'll just share some of them with you. I already pointed out in the replica of my colleague Mrsic that in 2008, there were insurance companies million and 488 thousand 922, and now only a million and 363 977. However, the data from the craftsmen is even worse. In 2002, there were 80417, 2008. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 79149 of 13 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 794/2009 of the At the same time, pensioners grew from 20355 to 25299 and 2016. 32357. Farmers in 2002 insurance farmers 62217, and today only 19633. Therefore, all these figures indicate that in 2002 the ratio of the number of insurance workers, pensioners, was 1.38, 2008. 1.40 and now it's 1.17. I think it's numbers that can certainly make us all worried. What's also very indicative, if we look at the number of insurance companies according to the age of life, then you can see that a very large number of insurance companies are currently at 60 and over. It is 70737 which will soon increase the number of pensioners very quickly. Of course, the biggest frustration is caused by data on pensions. We have heard here again that the average pension is 2 thousand 255 kuna, but unfortunately up to 500 kuna we have as many as 94645 users whose pension is 232 kuna. What can you do with 232 kuna? I don't think there's any need to explain. However, it should be said that persons with these 2,500 kuna pensions who also feed and members of their family live in a very difficult situation. Therefore, if we look at the figures related to the Pension Insurance Act, the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Law on the HVO under the contract between the Republic of Croatia and BiH can also see interesting data. Well, according to Professor. Bajrović, I will quote: "The review of this data shows that there is more thinking about people who are sometimes allowed to say hunger, while many fat geese are caressing their necks." Why does he say that? So here's the average pension in our house I said already several times is 2255 kuna. Then if we talk about this according to special rules 3490 kuna, 5075.66 kuna and related to the contract on HVO, it is 6283 users whose pension is average 2792 kuna. Therefore, the figures that Professor Dr. Bajrovic points to concern. I hope there will be ways to ensure that our pensioners are provided with larger pensions, and as Professor. Bajrović concludes that this will be heard by the mayors of the municipalities, mayors, mayors, parliamentary representatives, members of the government and the president of the Republic of Croatia and has a funny conclusion "I agree with those who will say that the sea is salty, but I cannot be silent, I must say what I think." I want a lot of health, Professor. Bajrović and all of our pensioners, and I hope that the government will really provide them with bigger salaries, not this eye-swallowing we heard yesterday from Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53836	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53837	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, this ratio of 1,17-1 insurance and pensioners is only an average. You know, we and here can very much prove that we have Croatia that works and Croatia that does not work. I'm not going in whose fault it is, but if you look at the county statistics, then you'll have a situation where 0.6 workers come in on a pensioner. I come from the county where it is between 1.5, 1.6, you come from the county where it is similar, so we repair this average very important, and you know me and in this Croatian Assembly very annoying when some who come from these districts, all of us who come from these other counties, who have a lot of work experience, salty mind about retirement and redistribution. I also told my presentation, I'll do it again. The peace system is a pension insurance system, it cannot give away except protection measures such as the lowest pension, nothing that has not been acquired by the right, or obtained by payment of contributions over the years. The second story is the defense attorneys. They are intruders in that system, but they are also obligations on the other side. And yet they can't be excluded because one part of them has just as much work experience. And as for this average age of pensioners, the freshest data since September, men 70 years, women 71 years and one month. We won't go any further, we have time to discuss more statistics, but everything the professor wrote, you have on HZMO's website.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53838	I want to thank my colleagues. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53839	I am pleased that we are coming from an electoral unit that is paying into the Croatian budget very, very large amounts and thus ensuring that pensioners in the 8th constituency, and now we are talking about the Primorje-Gorski County, actually live the longest in the Republic of Croatia. The average age per the latest statistical yearbook is 82 years for women and 76 years for men. So what should be the goal of this pension system is not only to extend and add years to life, but also to life for years, it should be the meaning of the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53840	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53841	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we can freely say that the Croatian state, or Croatian government, has, in solidarity with the HDZ and SDPs, ruined the pensioners by introducing a voluntary or, let's say, mandatory supplementary retirement rate, or that other pension column that comes down to these private funds, led to the fact that the pensioners will have fewer pensions. What does that mean? This means that if today 100 thousand pensioners live below 500 kuna and must dig through the trash, it means that in the future that general pensions will be less and less, the problem of poverty will simply be more and more, especially for older people. Who's responsible for that? Ladies and gentlemen, people say Pernar all the time you're talking about the problem of digging through garbage, like you're not offering a solution. So here's the solution, so you put the minimum pension of at least 1,000 kuna. There are very many countries that have so-called countries. a minimum pension in a way that no matter how many pensioners paid to survive because otherwise what we're going to look at, we're going to look at the scenes of the diggers in the trash and they're going to be our everyday life. As for that second pillar of retirement insurance, that's one general disaster, here's why. The property of these funds over time instead of growing actually falls, people have less than they've paid inside, so they've put into account in the bank, if they hadn't done anything with that money, they'd have more today than they've had in all these years, and why? Because those funds are investing in the so-called ". shares and bonds or government debt, etc., which, however, all shares have a very low yield or we have a situation where the entire stock becomes worthless, so there is no stock growth on the one hand, on the other hand we have very low interest rates, relatively low interest on government bonds and why is this a problem? So for a simple reason, because if you have an annual pension fund management fee of 4%, that administration means that so-called. If the administration eats 4%, if the interest on the government bond is, say, 4%, for example, and has invested in the fund and some companies that fail, we'll find ourselves in a situation, or not that we'll meet, so what I'm saying is not a theoretical problem, it's the most practical problem, and then we're in a situation where people have less and less money in those pension funds of the second pillar. And ultimately, you need to draw the line and tell who's profited from the pension reform. Foreign companies, Allianz etc., i.e. Croatian insurance, etc., who entered the game with these pension second pillar funds. So the management of these funds has profited, the owners of these funds have profited because they take literally, look out, ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of what 4% of the annual fees mean? Well, that's only 2 years, 8% in 20 years, that's 80% of all. So simply, this bureaucratic apparatus is created by a parasite, which is privatized, where owners and managers of these funds are convulsing money, earning fat money. And in return, citizens will have fewer and less and less pensions. Here I don't understand, in what, where logic is with that second pension column. But we have to tell our citizens where the story started. The story again begins with the World Bank and those international lenders, who asked Croatia to privatise the pension system. And you can see that every public institution by its privatisation has actually lost, that is, its quality has dropped. Or people are taken more and given less. Why? Because the purpose of private pension funds is not the well-being of insurance companies, but their profits. That's the essence of the whole story. So these pension funds aren't in the peace game, so the pensioners would have bigger pensions, like the pensioners were falsely speaking. Anyway, they're only in that game to make money. And if they earn, it's clear who loses, loses insurance, loses pensioners in the future. Croatia has recently added pensions to all those people in the second pillar, i.e., let's put it this way. Since all those who had this were forced to enter the 2nd pension pillar, they had fewer pensions, the government had given them some addition, but now the government and the supplement had abolished. Now the government has abolished that supplement. And what's going on? People imagine inflation in a way that, with the time they're getting bigger and bigger, that credit wars will remain the same. But in this system that we have, with a pension system like this, credit wars can grow, and pensions can fall. Simple math, where does it lead and the whole society, where does it lead to future pensioners? To ruin, sunflower. You are ladies and gentlemen of HDZ, SDP and your coalition partners, de facto team of retired, hung that millstone around their necks. And that's why every day, we witness human tragedies, witness pensioners who kill each other, witness pensioners waiting in front of a soup kitchen, and testify about pensioners digging through garbage. We have more and more homeless people amongst the pensioners. These are all problems that this government doesn't care about. Didn't care about the last one, and why? Because all you cared about was listening to what the World Bank told you, all you cared about was following their orders and you were personally doing well. And the fact that people are going to be digging through the trash isn't your problem. Mrs. Macar says, she says, "retirement 500 kn is small," she says, that's our reality. So, Mrs. Macar, why don't you trade in with that pensioner who receives 500 kn pension, and you pay him 15000 kn, and then if you said you couldn't live 500 kn, then tell you that pensioner or pensioner, and Mrs. Makar, that's Croatia's reality. So we in Croatia have two realities, one reality for the political and financial elite, and the other is a reality for ordinary citizens. What's another paradox is that most MPs here don't protect the interests of the vast majority of citizens. So pensioners are one broad category and actually systematically reduces the rights of the pensioners, who will eventually have nothing to live on. It's the government's policy, it's the government's policy before it. And this shameful policy will continue as long as HDZ and SDP and their coalition partners, Milan Bandic, HNS and similar ones, are exchanged in power. The Croatian people must wake up, if they do not wake up they will disappear. This is, this is not a warning, this is not an appeal, this is actually a scream. This is the cry of despair, because really when I listen to people's stories, I feel like I'm freezing and I see that you're doing nothing to correct or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53842	I thank my colleague Pernar for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53843	Thank you, well-respected representative Pernar, you're absolutely right when you say that pension funds make a lot and too much money on the administration of the second and third pillars. Here, let's say, third-student pensioners must pay 10% of the fees for paying the funds in the 3rd pillar. And that information will only be found out when he gets his pensions. So that's the information that's hidden from them, but in the end these people are going to have to find out the bitter truth, that these offerings they allegedly made went to the banks. This time I don't want to mention how many salaries the members of the board of these pension funds have, but I would like to ask you one question, namely how you comment on the fact that the pension funds in March of this year bought the shares of Agrokor in the amount of 750 million kuna, that those shares paid between 3 and 9 thousand kuna, and that those shares are no longer traded, which means that they are worth 0 kn. So who, and how he allowed it at all, assessed, and everything was clear, and much earlier, to enter into such a risky enterprise, and how this will now reflect on the business of these funds and ultimately, what is most important, the pensions that people will receive. Whether these pensions must be speculated in such a way that they are not held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53844	I would like to thank my colleagues, Bunjc, for the reply of my colleague Pernar, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53845	Mr. Bunjac, do you know how that works for you? Let's say you have shares like Ledo worth nothing, for example, Agrokora. So none of the shares of Agrokor are worth a shindig and you know Agrokor is an overindebted firm and you're thinking about what I'm going to do with those shares, to which I sell my balls under my kidneys. And then you find people in those pension funds, you say here I'm offering you 700 million kunas and worthless shares, bossy in the pocket as owner, or Agrokor because Todorovic owns 94% of Agrokor, he'll go into the pocket of big money, you amigo, friend, get a commission and everyone happy and satisfied, and that's what your pensioners are going to have once that scheme collapses, and that's not their problem. So what's this about? Literally, the future of people means their existence is traded on the free market. On a free market where there are speculators, frauds, lenders, debt dealers, and all possible people with bad profiles, and you have delivered millions of people into the hands of these people. And what's the score? The result is that they'll have pension shortages, that a few of what you said, these managers and these what they do, these blurry transactions, they'll profit, and the pensions of the pensioners will be less and less. So unfortunately, this whole country of ours is imagined and unfortunately this citizen fraud policy is supported by all the political sides de facto in the House except us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53846	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, we have the final word. HZMO Director, Mr. Josip Aladrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53847	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after a few hours of debate, I'm glad she was very lively, I'd dare say she's out of HZMO at some point. I am pleased that we have passed the 2016 report together and that, nevertheless, the vast majority of the criticism was positive. HZMO is an institution and an institution of long tradition, all the good that has happened over the past 95 years as we have heard we will keep, together we will work to improve these processes and in the future, speed up the current problems, challenges both in the entire pension system and in the HZMO as much as possible. What the HZMO will continue to be and will strengthen this role, it will have a proactive approach to modeling the entire pension system and thus only the first pillar it presents. I thank you again for your discussion, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53848	I thank the director, Mr. Aladrovic, for this final word. This concludes the debate, thanks again to the director of HZMO, Mr. Josip Aladrovic, for the reasons. This item of the agenda will be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53849	The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2016 is submitted by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, a report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2016 is accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 105 votes for, 16 abstentions, therefore, most votes are required, the conclusion reached in line with the proposal of the Assembly parent body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53850	We move to the next item of the agenda: - The report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2016 is the Carrier of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials based on Article 10. Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. The discussion was conducted by the responsible Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. I call on the President of the National Council for Human Resources Development, Ms. Ružica Belo Lučić, to give us an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53851	Good afternoon, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me present to you in the shortest lines the National Council for Human Resources Development and give you a brief report on its activities in 2016, which was actually the second year of its work. The National Council for the Development of Human Potentials is the central strategic body of the Republic of Croatia for the development and application of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, therefore it is appointed in accordance with Article 10. The law on the Croatian qualification framework. In addition to monitoring the measures and effects of the HKO's work of the sectoral councils and the register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the important role of this National Council is to assess, evaluate, evaluate and coordinate public policies particularly related to education, employment, lifelong professional orientation, regional development, taking into account their impact on achieving strategic objectives and improving the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. The Council is composed of stakeholders, therefore, of representatives of stakeholders of the qualification system, which are primarily representatives of ministries, agencies, chambers, higher schools, educational institutions, adult education institutions, union associations, employers' associations and civil society organisations. In 2016, the National Council carried out the following, I would say, key activities, namely that members and the National Council considered and analysed the draft programme for the development of a system of vocational education and training that was extremely important for Croatia and gave an opinion and a series of recommendations for the promotion of this document which proved to be good because, ultimately, it resulted in the adoption of the European Commission. In the organization of the National Council, the Ministry of Science and Education held a round table in April 2016, with a theme of Skills of the Future for the Development of the Croatian Economy and the central theme of this round table was actually the presentation of a study, a projection in future developments in the labour market developed by the Institute of Economics from Zagreb and, in fact, at the initiative of the National Council and which was funded by the European Social Fund. As well as the first year of its work, the National Council in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education organised a two-day conference of the National Council called HKO qualification for the market, society or individual, and at that conference the National Council actually presented the results of its two-year work and opened and encouraged discussions on a series of current issues and problems that arise in the educational system and in the qualification system of Croatia. Two important documents based on the conclusions and this conference was adopted by the National Council. The first guidelines for the harmonisation of study programmes for qualifications standards, the development of new study programmes in line with the Croatian qualification framework. So he wants to promote this document between higher schools, HKO tools and harmonising programs with HKO. Other important documents are actually recommendations for more successful implementation of projects through the application of the Croatian qualification framework. After discussions on previous experiences in the implementation of HKO projects, then obstacles to the effective withdrawal of funds from the European Social Fund have been given by a number of proposals to improve the procedures and conditions of implementation of the projects, and these recommendations have been sent to all the competent authorities. The National Council also encouraged the production of an e-module with instructions for making standards of interest, standards of qualification and learning outcomes for the wider education of all stakeholders in the system and better quality use of HKO tools. During 2016, the National Council also carried out its task of monitoring the actual development and application of HKO through regular monitoring of sectoral councils' work and monitoring of the implementation of already mentioned projects that were actually implemented to improve the quality and relevance of education. What is important to note is that 8 sectoral councils have been formed by the beginning of 2016. In early 2016, members of most of the remaining sectoral councils were actually elected. So there are 25 of them in total. However, during 2016 there was no appointment in the ministry, which significantly slowed the implementation of HKO. By the end of 2016 62 HKO projects were implemented, therefore financed from the European Social Fund. During their implementation, 177 standards of interest were developed, 220 qualifications standards. The information system of the register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework has been developed, however, due to the absence of sectoral councils that should have actually evaluated all these standards and made a recommendation for inclusion in the HKO registry, this planned progress in 2016 and filling the registers with the standards set out in this 2017 is now taking place. We held 6 sessions and 1 meeting during that year 2016. It is important to say that the National Council is financed by a small part of the state budget, mostly by the European Social Fund through a project to support the work of the HKO, sectoral councils and other stakeholders in the process of implementing the HKO, as well as the national contact points for the implementation of the European Qualifications Framework. Any additional information on the work of the National Council can be found on the qualification website.hr. which is very up-to-date, very content. Check it out, you'll see I was telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53852	I thank the esteemed Lady Rose, Belo Lucic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53853	Madam dear, your success in the human potential strategy at the state level is the greatest testimony to what is happening to these human potentials. Whether they stay in Croatia, whether they develop or flee from our country. So I think this report of yours is essentially tragic, because it turns out that you're doing something good for our citizens, and the fact is that the state of human potential means the usability of their qualifications, or their future in our country has never been worse. I'll give you another detail of yesterday's conversation with Ambassador Morocco in Croatia. In Morocco they produce cars, produce parts for airplanes, for boing and erbas and produce electricity solar panels and at a large level. Behind America, Morocco has one of the largest solar power plants, so let's call them the world. And Morocco is facing the future, and, dear lady, where you turn human potentials and what their future is in Croatia with this kind of government, with this kind of policy, I don't think it's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53854	I thank my colleague Pernar for his replica. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we see that the National Council for the Monitoring of Human Potentials, we see that this result since you were founded, you said in 2015 that the Council was founded. You had a few sessions. You are commended by the European Commission, and the fact that this potential while you add yourself together, while you form that will be the full potential in Ireland. Therefore, the aim of this would be to keep this human potential in Croatia and to adapt that potential to the Croatian market, not the Irish market or any other market. So from your design, there's more and more of our potential in Ireland, so explain what the methods are for you to keep these people in Croatia and that our most important potential, which is human potential. And we know that we have a little bit more around Zagreb and around larger cities of human potential, in the rest of Croatia we have literally no one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53856	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to laugh because both my colleague Pernar and my colleague Bully missed the subject. So this isn't about human potential in a physical sense. So here we were working on a very important process for the Republic of Croatia where we need to know what we have, what qualification structure, what does it mean for citizens to know that they can compare themselves with Europe, the European Union and that when ours, when our educational process is finished, we can then go to Europe with those qualifications. And he says that, in Croatia, you learn that and that and we learn that and we know that and we know that. It's equivalent to you in Germany or Austria. I'm sorry the colleges didn't read what this subject was all about tonight. And I am sorry that we are gone, because this is one of the most important topics for the Republic of Croatia because without human potential, without labour force, without qualified labour, Croatia cannot go on. What I'd like to ask you is that, so we started in 2014, it started in the beginning of the Croatian qualification framework. It took a long time for the scientific community to understand what was going on. Now it's started. According to you, when it's going to be that final moment when we say that we have everything ready, we have everything in the chain and we know that when we enter from one side we'll have a result on the other side. I wonder if everything would be as prepared as it is under the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and by what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53858	I thank my colleague Mrssic. My colleague Mrsic, I would really like to ask you that as far as the subject is concerned, whether someone has spoken about a topic that has not been discussed or if he has missed the subject as you say it is the President's matter. A lot of our colleagues and colleagues sometimes get off the track and miss the subject, so let's let them. I'd like to ask that you don't decide. And you also replicated the Honorable President of the National Council, not Mr. Bull and Mr. Pernar, but fine. Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53859	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Injury of Rules of Procedure Article 338, where basically, you yourself have said, essentially referred to us with a smile. I'm sorry that those who go to Ireland, parents from the children of our human potential, are not allowed to laugh, and you have allowed the factories of the desert councils that are purposefully self-inflicted to entangle themselves. It may be a good intention, but you're smiling now to refer to our speeches against, so contrary to the Rules of Procedure because you didn't try to speak to me, but to the lady who presented what she said. But in tears, parents send their children with diplomats in their pockets washing dishes in Ireland. And you're one of the guilty, and you can't avoid it. I know you're gonna defend this, because you probably got your staff right in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53860	I thank Mr. Bull. So, any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I hope you'll agree that I've already told my colleague Mrssic about his replica, so I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I thank you. We have a reply to the replica of Mrsic, the Honorable President of the National Council of Mrs. Ružica Bejo Lučić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53861	Thank you very much. I thank you for your rep and Mr. Pernar and Mr. Bull. Of course it's a very important topic and trust me that I would work with this National Council for 24 hours to know that with this National Council, I can solve the problems you're talking about. But really this National Council and its only dedicated work can't solve the problems you've been talking about. As far as the process of implementing the national qualification framework is concerned, both in Croatia and in other European countries. It's a very long process. So it's not about that or that this process is going to end someday. So it's a long-term process that actually needs to be introduced permanently and that will actually be carried out permanently. But I understood what Mr. Mrsic was going to say. So, I believe everything is ready and now more sectoral councils are formed this year in 7 months, intensively being educated that early next year, somewhere safe by half of 2018, a good part of the established standards will be able to be evaluated and placed in the register. And then, of course, according to them, the programmes will be able to evaluate both their new and those who are existing to evaluate their quality and use these standards in accreditation processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53862	I thank Mrs. Rose Beljjo Lučić for solving three replies to the replicas with one answer. We have another replica. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Beljo Lucic. I have to express my regrets in some way that no qualification register has been established today in 2017 and that in fact not all sectoral councils have been formed. HKO is an extremely important instrument for the establishment, i.e. for harmonising of certain qualifications at all levels, for better recognition within the EU countries themselves and is extremely important for linking education and the labour market to which we always put a focus, because without it there is no development of the economy, but there is no governance, effective management of human potentials. What I am interested in is what you mentioned in your 2016 presentation of the 2016 Report when you said that in fact most of these standards of qualifications and the development of the Croatian qualification framework are partly financed from the state budget, and mostly from EU funds, specifically ISFA. We even have this operational program of effective human potential. I wonder how much we really are, do you have that information you missed to take, or how slow dynamics are given the fact that the whole process has slowed down relative to the dynamics in which it is originally imagined. So, will we be able to pull out of the EU by 2020, specifically from ISFA, all funds intended for qualifications and development standards of HKO. That's what I'm interested in. Or by slowing down the process, we've missed something we won't be able to make up for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53864	I thank my colleague, Voter. The answer to Mrs. Rose White Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53865	Thank you for this question. So, as far as withdrawing funds, this dispute is not going to slow us down, and it's not really about HKO slowing us down. We can, more slow us down, in fact, the problems that I have mentioned in my report, obstacles to withdrawing funds from the EU, which does not fall into the fact that the sectoral councils have not been established. Because standards are being developed and there are no conditions for him to be in the register. So we can make standards, withdraw those funds. I think that these days there will be a new big one, so to speak, a big one, which will be able to withdraw for projects to develop standards of qualification, the standard of interest, so that part goes, and I believe that practically all the funds available to the operational programme by 2020 or by the time of 2020. You heard the minister, the other day, I saw the information that was planned and amended by the Law on Education and Education in order for teachers to additionally withdraw the funds of the European Social Fund to be rewarded by salary increases, I think it would be an excellent move because, in fact, motivated people who want to write projects, who will make projects, make standards to withdraw all available funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53866	I thank you for your response to the esteemed Rose, Belo Lucic. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53867	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the National Council for Human Resources Development, Dr. Bejo Lučić, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is what you saw from Dr Bejo Lučić's opening presentation, before us The report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2016 and as already said, the report received a positive opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and was also discussed by the parent Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Just to remind myself that the National Council, in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, was established in 2014 as the central strategic body of the Republic of Croatia for the development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and, as we heard from the report, in 2016 for the purpose of achieving its framework programme of work with the existing five thematic working groups set up in 2015, a 6th Thematic Group and these 6 thematic groups were focused on the topics and activities foreseen by the Framework Programme and just an analysis of the activities of these working groups could be monitored by the course and quality of work and then also by an effective National Council during 2016. Since a detailed description of all the activities of the National Council for Human Resources Development is in the report and extends from pages 10 to 40 of the report, I am not going to list everything here, it would be useful to read them in detail and I will only put emphasis on some of the activities that I consider important and, of course, not diminishing the importance of all other activities. What I think is very important is the guidelines for writing a higher education programme with the application of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which explains and regulates the process of harmonising existing study programmes. So, those we have with qualifications standards and also new study programmes that will be in line with the Croatian Qualifications Framework and, of course, for this purpose, the Council has also adopted a recommendation on the implementation of guidelines for the harmonisation of programmes which then include the creation of a curricula based primarily on labour market needs, while the key component is the need for the labour market, which then comes from the standard of interest and through the qualification standards, enters into new study programmes. What is important and is already equally said is an e-module with instructions for drawing up standards of professions, qualifications standards and study outcomes. E-modules are actually designed to help all stakeholders involved in the implementation of HKO. Of course, a plan and a programme for the education of representatives of the Quality Insurance Agency and the High Quality Insurance and Quality Committee have been set up on a high-quality basis which I feel is equally important because, on the basis of the plan, a draft description of the procedures for assessing the compliance of study programmes with qualifications standards and then this draft also presents a draft education of all stakeholders. What I find important is the framework of the national standard for qualifications for teachers in primary and secondary schools, which I find very important for the reason that there is currently diversity in Croatia in levels of education for teaching professions and we do not have clearly established standards. And what is important to note is that this standard includes a pedagogical-psychological-dedicated and methodical education which is also a condition for the work of all teachers in primary and secondary schools and, of course, by making it, assumes first and foremost, what is very important, standardisation of qualifications and quality assurance. The professionalisation of the teaching profession is then known in European countries, therefore for all stages of professional development, from traineeships through professional examinations to their relicence and further professional advancement. And what I think is important here is to note, that the whole document is structured generically and that it is applicable to all profiles of teachers regardless of the educational cycle, in the garden of the curriculum area and to the place on the educational vertical where teachers work. In the same way, I consider it essential to analyse the draft programme for the development of vocational education and training, so to issue an opinion on the draft development programme. What I think is equally important is the draft regulation on the evaluation and recognition of informal and informative learning. So it's an area where Europe has gone far, and that's where we're still lagging behind. And of course with regard to the visibility of the work of the National Council, very important for me too, a very successful annual HKO qualification conference for the market, society or individual at which a number of workshops, round tables, plenary presentations were held where challenges were actually discussed, the potentials then also of the perspectives of vocational education and training. What I consider important was also discussed about the relationship and comparison of the outcomes of learning from professional and university studies, and also the problem of learning through work, as well as the problem of improving professional practice. Which I find very important, because we talk all the time and need to talk about the coherence of our school programmes with the labour market. What is very important is the activities of the National Council and so far has been highlighted on several occasions, the continuation of the process of setting up sectoral councils. According to the information, there were at the beginning of 8, and then plus 13, so now we've come to a total, if I have well summed up 21 of the sectoral council, then the law prescribed 25 sectoral councils and expected this process to be completed in 2017. Of course, the programme is also designed to educate all sectoral council members, which is extremely important, in order to train them to evaluate, above all, to learn the very methodology of making standards of interest, and then to evaluate them, as well as the evaluation of standards, assemblies, outcomes, learning etc. What I think is really important to mention here, and that is the fact, that since one of the most important tasks of the sectoral councils is to evaluate the established standards, out of interest with relevant standards, qualifications and meetings, learning outcomes. In doing so, if we take into account the complexity of this process, and then the ability to handle and manage the information system of the HKO register, as the main tool for evaluation, then it takes time to prepare and educate. So, I believe, that the full application of the HKO registry will therefore experience its fullness by the end of 2017, and if I remember well, so far through these projects we have made 177 standards of interest, which of course is not a small number, and that is an exceptional basis, therefore, first of all for their enrollment in the register, and then what is very important, what comes after that, it requires time and it is actually a process. Once we have a standard of interest, we need to adapt the study programs, enroll students, lead them to completion, so their diplomas, their competences are comparable, and therefore, I understand, when I talk about it being really a process, a process that takes time, but I believe we're on the right track. And therefore, here is the need to continue the cooperation of the National Council on human potential development, not only with the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, but also with other bodies and commissions and working groups, which are responsible for the different aspects of human potential development. And, of course, in this context, strengthening the role of the National Council as a central strategic body for the development of HKO is closely linked to the respect and actions and recommendations of the council, but then to their consistent application in practice, in order to strengthen this reform role of the Croatian Qualifications Framework in the Croatian education system. And, of course, all these conclusions and opinions are contained in the annexes of the report and are very transparently indicated. If we look at the financial report that we have there on page 40, 41, then we see that the National Council actually had very little financial resources, of some 309,000 and some small kuna, where we have some 80,000 from the state budget, and it remains from European projects and gifts, of course, not including these projects that went to high schools. And here, in conclusion, from everything I have stated so far, it can be concluded that the National Council during 2016 carried out its legal task, and mainly in the section relating to the assessment and evaluation of employment education policy and lifelong professional orientation in the Republic of Croatia. And of course, I need to commend the methodology of making the report itself, its transparency in all its parts, and also the support of all the activities of the National Council, belonging to the documents given in the report. And on the basis of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support a report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53868	I thank my colleague Vesna Bedekovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, so I am interested in the implementation of everything the National Council does, it is very important that the Ministry of Science and Education works. So I'm curious to know where your coalition partner, the HNS, who went into the coalition with you, is just to ensure that education works as well as possible. I don't see them here at all, so they won't make a contribution to such an important subject. So what's the coalition contribution of the CNS if that was their reason to join the coalition with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53870	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Answer, colleague Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53871	You'll have to ask them where they are today. I believe that each of them, per person, are busy with some previous commitments and I believe that they would be very happy to participate in today's debate and will probably do so next time and every time it comes to education.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53872	Thank you for telling my colleague, Bedekovic. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53873	Mrs. Bedekovic, if the state of education is so good, and you claim it is. You can then explain to us the sharp decline of the number of students in Croatian schools and, in fact, the breakdown of the education system and the fact that teachers no longer have enough, no more classes to teach, cannot meet the standards and must seek a new job. Please answer that question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53874	I thank my colleague Pernar. Answer, colleague Bedekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53875	I did not talk about education, on the agenda and today's topic is the report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development as a central strategic body. I wasn't talking about the education system as a whole. So today we're talking about everything the National Council is doing to develop human potentials. So the focus was on the Croatian qualification framework and everything that seems to be in order to bring the study programmes, higher education programmes and then to the secondary schools in line with the needs of the labour market. In order to do so, qualifications standards must be established, learning outcome sets and professional standards evaluated. It's a process that lasts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53876	I thank my colleague Bedekovic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53877	Well, here's 238, so the lady is demeaning her common sense, so she mentioned that the education system is going in the right direction and we see that it's going downhill. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53878	Comrade Pernar, I would ask you very nicely not to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure in such an ironic way. I'll let you go this time without warning and next time I'll give you a warning. I do not think that my colleague Bedekovic has in any way hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I would really ask you to stay away from this institute in the future and use it really at the time you think it is necessary and that the Rules of Procedure is really injured. Thank you very much. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53879	Thank you, Chairman, Professor Belo Lucic, colleagues and colleagues. And first of all, I have to say that here's the okay teacher has made progress and she's not at the debate at midnight, yet she's kind of normal, but it's still a long way from normal that this important topic is being discussed at this time and that there are so few people in the assembly and I'm afraid that a lot of the people who are in the assembly haven't even read this document at all. So, we have a debate about such an important document without actually knowing what this document is, that we do not know what the Croatian qualification framework is in some way not worthy of parliamentary representatives. I therefore hope that the third happiness when we discuss the 2017 report will come in time for this to be the first point and the assembly to be full because indeed, with the strategy of education, science and technology, the Croatian qualification framework is a key document for the future of Croatian education, Croatian labour markets, the future of Croatia. I am really afraid that most of the people sitting here are not aware of the importance of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework as well as of this National Council for the Development of Human Potentials which does not do at all what part of the colleagues in their debate mentioned. Therefore, I will once again work us here and for the sake of the citizens who may be following this debate repeat what the National Council of Human Resources is in general. The work and tasks of the National Council are therefore an assessment of the evaluation and coordination of public policies and, above all, policies of education, employment, lifelong professional orientation and regional development from the point of view of the impact on the development of human potential and their contribution to achieving the strategic objectives and competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia and the development of society. Making recommendations on the process of planning and developing human potentials in line with the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, proposing integrated human potential measures, mutually coordinated employment policies, education, regional development, monitoring and evaluation of the effects of HKO and individual qualifications, and making recommendations on improvements in the integration of education and labour market needs. To give an opinion to the Minister responsible for Education and Science on sectoral council recommendations on registration policy, registration quotas and funding of qualifications from public sources according to qualifications and to counties, monitoring and evaluation of the work of sectoral councils and making recommendations for improvement on the basis of regular reports on the work of sectoral councils. So this is all, this is the future of Croatia, it's all summed up in this one passage that speaks of what are the competences and tasks of the National Council. Another question I need to explain what a Croatian qualification framework is, do we know what a Croatian qualification framework is? Therefore, the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the HKO is a reduced instrument for the arrangement of qualifications systems in the Republic of Croatia that ensures clarity, access to acquisition, reliable acquisition, pass-by and quality of qualifications, as well as for linking levels of qualifications in the Republic of Croatia with levels of qualifications in the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area and indirectly with levels of qualifications in other countries. At the centre of HKO are learning outcomes, therefore competences gained by learning and proved after learning where the learning process itself is not essential as long as the outcomes are consistent with the approved evaluation programme. Each qualification acquired in the Republic of Croatia will be determined according to the level of learning outcomes that belong to that qualification. Comparing qualifications to a certain level allows qualifications to be compared and connected to one another. One of the most important elements, I particularly point out, HKO, is to coordinate education with the needs of the labour market, so that we no longer educate children for employment institutions. Therefore, employers will play a significant role in defining learning outcomes. It is precisely on the basis of their needs that competences will be defined for a particular profession, and this will result in the development of prescribed learning outcomes, educational programmes. In this way, the education system will directly connect with the needs of the labour market, which I think must be the key goal of us working politicians, the framework for the National Council to be able to do its job. And who benefits from HKO and the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development? Therefore, Croatian citizens will have the visibility of qualifications to the Croatian European labour market, mobility for further learning, creating preconditions for evaluation and recognition of informal and informal learning. The benefit will be provided by employers due to the comprehensibility of qualifications and due to competences that will be consistent with the needs of employers and labour markets and ultimately of course and the education system due to the arrangements and transparency and verified and recognised quality of institutions and programmes. So one complicated name and something many people don't know is crucial to Croatia's future. One of the problems that the National Council is currently facing is that it's not in complete composition, I don't really know what's waiting for it. Of the 26 members, at this time 8 members are in the process of resolution and we have not appointed, therefore, new members of the National Council. In the case of documents adopted in 2016, it is 6, I would draw attention from those 6 to 3 that I consider particularly important, so this is an opinion on the draft programme for the development of the vocational education and training systems, where the conditions for quality education and learning are highlighted in line with the needs of economic development, social inclusion and even development and strengthening the competitive advantage of the Croatian economy. Secondly, the recommendations of the National Council for Human Resources Development on the use of the results of the study, projections on future labour market developments, are very important. Therefore, on the basis of analysis and data obtained by projections of labour market developments, useful for the analysis of the impact of economic policies on the demand for knowledge and skills, for the planning of educational content and programmes, outcomes, learning, registration quotas, so that we have concrete data, foundations that will be determined and managed then and registration policy. Of course, I cannot and cannot mention that the National Council has reached conclusions on support in the implementation of full curricular reform, I quote: "In fact, full curricula reform has no alternative and if time is lost in this process, every year hundreds of thousands of our students and students will be brought into an unfavourable position compared to their peers in the EU, and our economy will continue to be uncompetitive." Therefore, there is no dilemma that this is one of the key sentences in this year's National Council report. In the case of the activities carried out by the National Council listed here in 15 different areas, it would have singled out 5. First, the colleague also spoke of it, so we share an opinion, I believe that one of the key activities was the framework of the national standard of qualifications for teachers in primary and secondary schools. As the colleague said, this creates the possibility of a single standardisation that will enable the professionalisation of the teaching profession as well as is known in European countries for all stages of the career path, from the acquisition of qualifications, traineeships, the passing of a professional exam to the relicencing and further progress because without quality teachers there is no quality school. The second thing I would single out is one round table held in the organisation of the National Council, which is the Skills of the Future for the Development of the Croatian Economy, so the central theme was a study of projections on future developments in the labour market. The role of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials in the Development of HKO is highlighted as an instrument for regulating qualifications in the Republic of Croatia which ensures the quality and relevance of qualifications in relation to labour markets. So if you follow me, if you're so focused, it's always seen that the key task of this national council is the key task of our education system, which is the process of harmonising education with labour market needs. So HKO is a reform package that ensures that our education is finally in the service of the labour market. It can't be said that an annual conference was held at the Croatian Qualifications Framework for the Market, Society or Individual. And this highlights the importance of this strategic body for the development of human potentials that evaluates, values, integrates public policies of education, employment, lifelong professional orientation and regional development. It monitors and evaluates the work of sectoral councils, makes recommendations and proposes other measures that contribute to the planning and development of human potentials in the Republic of Croatia. The fourth thing I would particularly like to point out, so by encouraging decision-making and public policies based on evidence and research, the National Council has also given young researchers the opportunity this year to present their works which are thematically related to the development of qualifications through the application of HKO, the model of early career development of young experts, employability and other topics related to human potential development. There have been several awards, here to mention the names of these valuable young researchers. These are Katarina Pažur Ančić, Matija Batur and Tijana Vukić, who have been particularly shown in this project of the National Council for Human Resources Development. As counterpart Bedekovic pointed out, I stress the importance of activities concerning the making of documents for the evaluation and recognition of informal and informal learning. I'm curious since the draft rules on the recognition and evaluation of non-formal and informational learning have been presented, at what stage is its final adoption? And finally, what the National Council was doing was monitoring the adoption of new legal and sublegal acts and other regulations of their compliance with HKO and recommendations for policy-making to the relevant ministries and institutions, which, in particular, raises concerns about me because I think that one insufficient activity in all ministries, especially the Ministry of Science and Education, has significantly slowed all those activities that were related to the implementation of HKO. The SDP club supports this report and the way it was developed, content and methodically, and we want Professor Bejo Lučić to continue to have as much success as possible, with the support of all those involved in the work of the National Council with the complete composition, because this will depend on the quality of our education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53880	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have two replicas, a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you, a colleague of Jovanovic, pointed out one of the roles of the National Council for Human Resources Management, and it may have been presented here in the opening statement in a secondary position, which is in some way an impact on the registration policies, i.e., the registration quotas. And that's an extremely important question. Once all the standards of occupation are made, all the standards of qualifications, once we complete, the original register, it will be revived, it will be renewed, etc. However, I am afraid that quality integration of the education system with the labour market, but I will not only say with the labour market, but also with the needs, the social needs that are equally variable, will not come to life, until, by the moment, we really start to create, quality and efficient management of human potentials. We need to know, do, mean development, images of the population in the Republic of Croatia, the needs of employers. Not only in numbers, the need for certain interests, certain human potentials, but also in quality, means those standards that are needed. And I'm afraid that through the constitutional category, the autonomy of the university, which is very flexible and very flexible and very broadly interpreted, we're not going to be able to influence high schools to finally not listen to the system, which the system says, whether we need so many lawyers. On the one hand, whose hyper production we have, and on the other hand, we have a deficit in the educational institutions of mathematics and IT professors, and we are talking about introducing information as mandatory subjects. And we don't have at this point, as long as she's elective, we don't have, as you might say, personnel who are qualified, who can carry out the same information. So I'm curious, how you see it, fellow Jovanovic, how we're going to get out of this one vicious circle, on the one hand of the university's autonomy, which interprets it, that the state can't tell them how much we're writing, and on the other hand that we're really investing in people who need this society, that we don't have a huge surplus on the one hand, and on the other hand, an incredible deficit for certain human potentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53882	I would like to thank my colleague Voter on the line. Answer, colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53883	Thank you very much, colleague Voter. You have just highlighted the basic foundation and meaning and the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, because its aim was to change, what we learn, how we learn, and not learn for nothing, so that someone ends up at the Employment Service. So that's the point, and that's why we've seen the reports, which are presented here today, that there's been a lot of work done in that sense. But, of course, what you said, in the end, it's just recommendations. However, in order to implement recommendations, there must be good will both in the education system, especially when it comes to education systems, higher education and universities, which rarely see their autonomy only in a way that money is given to them, that nothing is asked afterwards. Of course there are models and I am convinced that, with the continued work of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the implementation of education, science and technology strategies in full curricula reform, programme contracts that will be encouraged to enroll students who will be employed and that, to what extent, students who have graduated, are quickly employed, depends on the funding of the university, that we will be able to really school for work, not for the Employment Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53884	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53885	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed president, of course here, listening to these now exhibits, acquires everyone, actually the impression of the importance of just implementing the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a basis for development, especially to say within vocational education. And of course, whenever we mention vocational education, it's his connection to the labour market, but I can only say that this connection story, meaning the education system and the labour market, has certainly been told for decades in some way. And if we only valued the effects of these stories, then we would come to the conclusion that some of these colleagues said, that the effect is very small and that some way, when we come to the biggest crisis, then we begin to learn the most in error. So here I hope that now and the results of the work exactly, your work results will still be seen and that one additional dimension will be given. Because the key question you asked, which is in your report, is, in fact, whether vocational education will respond to labour market needs? Just when we look at the labour market asking two questions. One question is, does he have a job, in the space I live in? The second question is, is this job adequately paid? And then we would always ask that question, but we just want to have experts, qualifications and everything else, but we see that the profession sometimes goes beyond what they're educated about, when they go abroad, then they accept a job profile, which absolutely wouldn't be acceptable to us. This therefore speaks of several aspects that need to be seen by our labour market. Sometimes it is not even necessary to look at the labour market sufficiently through the figures. Because if we looked at the labour market and saw quotas for foreign workers that were approved this year, then we would say that we would have to respond very quickly to these needs. These needs would be in the context of shipbuilding primarily, construction and tourism as the strongest sectors requiring new personnel. But when we look at our students' interest in the profiles offered or not, if we mention especially agricultural production, then we see that the interest is small. And many of our schools, they have just the problem, that the programs they offer are not adequately filled. Even if their programmes meet the needs of the labour market, it does not mean that students who enter them actually want to accept it. Therefore, we should return to motivation. One safe space for education is how to overcome actually the lack of understanding of what is offered on the market, how to overcome the needs that employers offer nominally but in reality they do not want adequately neither to reward those students and those future workers who need to come and fill those jobs. So just to refer to the labour market, we didn't really respond to the complexity behind it. So these projections of movement, they kind of show that dying of certain spaces, will lead us to that, not only will we not have an adequate qualification structure but we will not have a sufficient number of professions to attract certain production that would attract investors. All the efforts that everyone involved in this education system will make are not sufficient if there is not one systemic government policy to ensure the development of every part of Croatia. And then the efforts that take place in certain areas for the purpose of modernising education programmes, their adaptations may not result in success. And then they're going to question whether all this effort, whether all these educations, the educations that you've been conducting and listed in your report will be sufficient. Here I am happy that Minister Divjak was an active member of the committee and her energy to make a change is certainly a good basis for these procedures to be launched in haste. I hope that these initial ones too, I say there is always a certain opportunism and desire in some way to control the process but here is your work and ultimately the needs that are both the labour market and all of it, and this when we listen to the self-exposures here show that these procedures should simply be depoliticalized and really comply with those requirements that will be. And educational programs drop to all levels. What we often encounter is that certain vocational schools do not want to change or change. From year to year, they offer professional programs that, for which there is no interest but cannot start from the beginning that they may need to discuss themselves. So if by retraining, by transforming the knowledge and skills of his lecturers, here he is mentioned in the debate just before and example, let's introduce the information skills to be raised by our students and we don't even have a motivational framework to attract someone who's been educated, educated for the IT profession. Because the wages offered to such experts are not adequate compared to what other parts of the labour market offer them. So we're going to meet here to modernise certain procedures, so back to agriculture, sometimes it's enough to have maybe a driving category that's enough to run a particular agricultural machine, some kind of machinery. Well, I haven't met a membership card in a tractor yet, but let's leave it for some discussion. But all we can see is that modernization of technology requires increasing skills, increasing knowledge, and you just can't rely on just one quick requalification anymore. We also have investors who, with all the support we offer and who rightly can say that they are relatively solid in relation to the environment, the regional environment in which Croatia is located, which is what will be with our labour needs. And they're rightly setting up because we've defined that we offer retraining, additional training for labour at the employment office. However, they say neither the quality of the people who are in the institution nor what they possess is sufficient nor to launch retraining programmes that will provide them with the steady flow of labour they have during their business and development of their business. So that answer, in fact, we will all have a very difficult answer together because the processes that we would like to be hasty, which we have also questioned in the previous government, have been several times where we discussed how to respond in an urgent, short time to the needs of the labour market. Unfortunately, here are the people who are in charge of our universities and in other areas of education, we have not been able to get an adequate answer. The answer was always that these are the processes that require and I see them from this report that it means that they should make good preparation. But as we prepare it, as it goes through one political sieve and a solution again, as it causes numerous conflicts that primarily through the media then get a new dimension or get a new ideology after that, we find that all the efforts, all the programs, the projects that were carried out through the profession that gave its suggestions are not being implemented. Here also today I had a session, the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture and the basic objection which was on the work of the state bodies is that during the preparation of the public consultation the academic community and some professional institutions were involved. However, there was actually a significant step in finalisation where the changes themselves were no longer consulted among the people who participated in the working groups. And in the end, there's an inexhaustible model. That's why I'm afraid that all the efforts of your council and all the people involved end up with quality recommendations, we have a very professional approach, we respond to what the labour market has given. But then one thing actually happens is that maybe we should say both interesting and all kinds of not just say political integration that makes one barrier and only miss certain parts through the filter. And it's the paradigm of the society we're in. I hope that not only this means, I have seen relatively modest resources that you have in your work that will also be strengthened, that you will get one new dimension and directly participate in the preparation of all future forms of education, so that all schools that expect to actually implement such programs are included in all models to say improving their effectiveness. But this means not only the programme, but also the infrastructure must respond to it, but human resources must primarily respond to the second financial separation in which we, like Croatia, are at a very low level, have to be raised in a short time. And that's why it's important in making a state budget, and I'd say to those before just what we're about to do right now, we need to step up importance, and we need to increase investment. Because if we invest more significant funds then it means that there will be a larger number, especially in education where it is based primarily on human resources, a greater number of people involved in all of these processes, and all of your conclusions, your recommendations will give one new perspective and that it can be implemented all together through quality programs and strengthen the whole, the whole vocational education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53886	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for this debate. We have a few replicas. A double replica of respected colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53887	2 to 1. Dear counterpart Panenic, your question was whether the vocational education of the labour market was appropriate. My kind of modest grade is three times not. For the first time, not because despite the fact that somewhere around 70% of high school students are actually in professional crafts. Professional education in Croatia is not yet popular enough and is considered less valuable because in Croatia, you still have imperatives in the future, if you have to go under the mus, and if you fail to enroll in high school, then you will choose as some other, third choice of professional or craftsmanship that is completely missed because children do not actually realize that your pre-school is a commitment to further education at a high level and the acquisition of the first qualification can be something that can be referred to you from 18 years of age to the labour market, and on the other hand you can continue to be educated. The second reason is not because our programs, but the curiculas are still not enough even new curiculas open enough to involve employers in theirs to say design, to get them and now I'm going to say that maybe a little rough. It's not right for me to talk about kids like that, but a finished product that needs an employer. Very often we get the opportunity to hear that children who complete certain occupations acquire certain qualifications, they theoretically are. But it's only when they come to the workplace that they start learning because they don't gain knowledge, skills and competences that they can feel independent about starting a job. And the third reason is the same as in higher education enrolment policy. So the ministry has absolutely no right to founders, or units of local and regional self-government especially regional, because it's a high school thing to say don't sign up for rifles because they don't have a place to work, for example. And in our schools, unfortunately between the interests of children and the interests of the chamber, I have nothing against the professors, but very often registration policies are created in accordance with the chambers and the need to keep our jobs, we consciously educate children in these interests of the Employment Service and that is it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53888	I thank my colleague. She even respected time, double replicas. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53889	Surely the motivation of employers is very important. Unfortunately, so far, we've only actually reduced it to a formal obligation that often came down to a signature in a work diary was enough to fulfill the form it requires, in the end perhaps a student himself who is not even aware that in one environment where the school and student and employer are motivated would provide himself with a job. If we were to start from that base then we would get to these very registration quotas very quickly, because if we knew which employers wanted to participate in the education process now to hire those students for 4 or a few years, then the answer would be very simple, so that the school would have to answer to the employers who took these children. We're actually having a quality moment right now, it's that we're starting to feel a lack of labour. Now is the time for exactly this kind of implementation where we no longer have the labour force supply that was pressing while there were 300 thousand unemployed. Now we could go a lot easier on that path and change practice, actually opening programs that don't actually have a regional job offer. I have to say that I was surprised at the opening of some high school programs as managers in tourism, and then when you do, so okay, one generation might be able to find out locally to the entrepreneurs of employment, but when it goes from year to year then you happen to simply educate in your area of workers who will leave, I don't know if it was in the Vukovar-Srijem County that you'll go to a sea destination. Hence, whether our county was appointed in that case as someone considering their development or considering merely satisfying some form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53890	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53891	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Panenic, what is the problem is professional education and what Croatia now feels is a lack of personnel in the field of vocational education. Simply now and in tourism but also in other vocational education, we see that we do not have personnel, but what HKO needs to guarantee is that the staff coming out of that education are what employers need because the fact is that now looking at vocational education they learn a lot of theories and practice little or no at all, especially if practice is a school practice that doesn't have much to do with the situation in the real sector. Therefore, there is also a part of the European Social Fund programme that has been launched, and the European Commission has not allowed us to include it in this part that is related to education and vocational education is a special project within the European Social Fund, connecting employers together with schools to get young people to go to the employer, to study there and to test themselves with it. In your neighborhoods, I think that Cerna is an example of a company that took a whole class of tokars who worked with them for all three years and then hired thirty of them, already tested them, knew what they were working for and who they were working for, and that's the future of vocational education in Croatia. If we don't turn it that way, we won't have time for the needs of our economy, and that's what everyone should know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53892	I'd like to thank my colleague Mrsic for the replica. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53893	You have just listed a paradigm of our system, so when such an entrepreneur appears who is actually for himself and because of what he saw on the labour market is taking over and he's actually forming our education system, then we have a Bakic who forms our informative future with initiatives. So that happens individually, we have a Roman who introduces innovative technology and he collects not only from Croatia but from around the world people who come to participate in these programmes. However, we did not set such individuals up to become actually a reference point for the development of professional programmes. This when you mentioned both our schools and their practice which they can do here we witnessed that certain directors really did their job, that they had a vision, that they had actually organized themselves and joined certain funds that were available, equipped their premises with very modern ones. They're successful and I'm saying I don't know, in Slavonski Brod there's such a school in that. Then when we look at some other schools, we wonder if it's the same education system in all of Croatia or if we really depend on an individual case, and then individual entrepreneurs, individual schools, and we can't talk about a single education system that has a reference point under which we can't go. Those who can't reach it must go, whether it's the director, was determined to say professor or anyone else who can't meet the challenges of modernization because we're talking about modernising the education system. So we can't rely anymore on the method of coming to school at 8:00, and I'm home for lunch, that time passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53894	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53895	Thank you very much. I answered in an individual debate for one reason, I won't be long and the reason is to express my dissatisfaction and concern with the behaviour of the rectors of the University of Zagreb, the Rector of Bijeliš and the team around him again, I apologize to Borasa. I welcome the white man who was before him. So, the rector of Boras, who is in one frame, would even dare say that, although some will attack me with the Constitutional Court, a very unfavorable and insane decision regarding the Croatian qualification framework and the law where they have challenged certain provisions and sought to re-adjuvenate them and discriminated against 50,000 students of professional studies. And worst of all, when the Ministry held a debate and there was a solution that was even compromiseable that could accept and that 50,000 students rector Boras with his same team again trying to challenge and a solution that is now compromiseable, therefore a shameful solution, and I hope that part of those 50,000 students of professional studies listen and watch who takes care of them and who only takes care of the financial interests of a round of university professors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53896	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have the final word, President of the National Council of Honored Mrs. Rose Belo-Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53897	Honorable MPs! I thank you for the debate, especially thanks to representatives of HDZ, SDP and Mosto clubs for a very contentious debate that has actually enriched and complemented my brief actual presentation of the National Council's report on the work for human potential development. The debate touched really important issues that need to be resolved and found solutions for more effective implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework and, of course, which is the main objective of improving our qualification system. This mentions the harmonisation of the labour and education markets as the most important objective of the introduction of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and the specific issue here lists the harmonisation of the national council's recommendations for quotas and their application. Of course, these recommendations are not easy to give, now the Croatian Employment Service is doing this with specific recommendations, so we have launched a project that will set out a methodology for setting priority sectors because it is important to determine first and foremost what are priority sectors, and then also to make recommendations for certain registration quotas. What is also mentioned here and is extremely important, the flexibility of our education system or the flexibility of a qualification system that can certainly be achieved with partial qualifications. This so far is given in a certain way as requalification, the Croatian qualification framework gives way for this system of partial qualifications that will be aligned with the labour market to create a quality assurance system. Equally mentioning the system of recognition of previous learning, or informal learning, competences that are thus acquired, this system will enable us to make sure that we are much better flexible or much better adapted to the needs of the labour market. The rule is, the draft rulebook has been drawn up, but we are now working on a strategic document to build a system for the recognition of previous learning because for this system it is extremely important to create a strong quality assurance system which I trust you all clearly, and it will rely on the register of the Croatian qualification framework on quality standards that will actually be for these qualifications and therefore we must wait for the filling of the register to be able to establish a system of recognition of previous learning. I would just like to point out very important, Mr Panenic of the Mosta, who said about the vocational education that is certainly at his disposal large funds from the European Social Fund and needs to spend them wisely for the reform of vocational education. The motivation mentioned is very important and schools must be places, vocational schools where students will be happy to see each other. To do this as an example in Slavonski Brod here we now have an assistant at the Ministry of the Director and the School of Slavonski Brod, I hope, and I have already spoken to him, his vision with the instruments of the Croatian Qualifications Framework is to make many more of these schools in Croatia and, of course, using the European Social Fund funds. And as an important topic, which is the creation of a centre of competence in vocational education which I believe will still lead us to be places where our high school students will love to see themselves in the future. Once again, thank you all for the debate and for supporting the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53898	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Council for the development of the human potential of Mrs. Ružica Belo Lučić for this final word. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the esteemed Mrs. Ruzica, Belo Lučić, for the reasons and for the answers and for the closing words. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53899	The report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2016 is submitted by the National Council for Human Resources Development, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2016 is hereby accepted. Please vote. I find that most of the votes are 112 for, 8 abstentions and 2 against, therefore, the majority of the votes have reached a conclusion in line with the proposal of the Assembly home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53900	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 167. The proposal is a representative of respected counterpart Goran Aleksic on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committees on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. I call upon a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic, to give us an additional explanation of this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53901	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Economy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I predicted it'd be half the night, but here's 20 hours and 30 minutes, somewhere around here, it's a little early. Unfortunately, such a law is, the proposal for this law concerning over 100,000 Croatian families on the agenda is at a time when the Assembly can only be observed on the Internet. I asked it to be before, but my request wasn't answered. We're right where we are. And now for the bill. What's this about? The proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act will address three important problems for Croatian consumers if adopted. Problem number one. After a collective court ruling, the only thing that should be prescribed for now is to make it clear how the limitation of claims in private court proceedings is observed on the basis of a collective court ruling. So, in private court proceedings, it is prescribed that it is clear that in the event of an action being brought an end to the statute of limitations, and after a final judgment of the statute of limitations, it begins to run from the beginning and all that period before that does not count in antiquity. Accordingly, it should be clearly prescribed that in private court disputes on the basis of collective judicial judgments of an age-old account, on the basis of a collective court ruling, or that the appeal in a collective court dispute is suspended and in a private court dispute, and that it begins from the beginning of the day of power of judgment from a collective court dispute. It's a question of number one that would be dealt with by this law. The question of number two which would be resolved by this law is the return of the amount of interest paid and the corresponding tightening interest to the debtors who are damaged by the illegal behaviour of Croatian banks, and on the basis of the only known collective judicial verdict so far. What's this about? The banks unilaterally changed the interest rate, agreed on a way to change the interest rate by their decisions, and it was rightly ruled unfairly and therefore useless. Consumers have also been given the right to initiate their own private court proceedings on the basis of these judicial collective judgments. In order not to go to these private court proceedings, it is proposed that this law be used to account for overpaid interest and associated tight interest rates and to settle the problem out of court and to repay the overpaid interest to all damaged debtors. The third problem to be solved by this law is the problem of tight interest where we have a problem for people when they come into debt when they start to run them, then the tightening interest flows continuously and there is no end. At the end of the tightening interest goes beyond the value of the principal and the value of that total debt. So this law also proposes that the situation be tightened by interest to stop accounting at the moment when they reach the value of the meal in the set. So some meal has reached no charge, a tight interest is charged when a tight interest reaches the value of this complete meal, a tight interest would no longer be charged. These proposals for either or through the Implementing Law, these proposals have been back five years more times, they have never been adopted, this would be an example, this would be a new attempt to at least collect annuities, or meals so prescribed. The law would cover all debtors who contracted in seven convicted banks loans with a variable interest rate regardless of the credit currency. And it's about the period between 10 September 2003 and 31 December 2008 because it's a period that includes a collective judicial verdict. However, except for these debtors who have already paid off their loans, who still pay off their loans, too, would have been caught by debtors who converted their CHE loans, which have some 55 thousand. Why should these debtors be part of this law? This is because during the bank's conversion they applied an unlawful change in interest rates as they applied in the same euro loans to debtors who actually agreed on such loans. Like that. I will say my concrete example in the conversion was first applied the initial interest rate of 6.1% then increased interest rate of 6.6%, then increased interest rate of 6.15% and never returned to the interest rate of 6.1% during that conversion for the payment plan applied in conversion. And secondly, during the conversion, an incorrect calculation of interest margins has also been applied since the beginning of 2014. Therefore, banks have applied in conversion the same way, the illegal way of changing interest rates as they have applied in the same euro loans, and therefore this law should also cover converted loans and it is necessary to compensate the debtors who converted their CHF loans. The collective ruling includes Erste banka, Privredna banka Zagreb, Zagrebačka banka, OTP banka Hypo banka now called Adico banka, Splitska banka and Reifeisen banka. Sberbank was cleared of the blames, the High Court of Commerce and the Supreme Court found that Sberbank correctly negotiated the interest rate. However, I argue that this is not true and I hope and expect the Supreme Court to decide differently in its review because we know that at the end of 2016 the Constitutional Court returned the audit back to the Supreme Court, so the Supreme Court must re-determine the dishonesty of the interest rate for Sberbank and must re-determine the integrity of the currency clause CHF. However, as long as the Supreme Court does not change its revision, this law would not apply to Sberbank because Sberbank is not condemned. So the basis for this law is a collective judicial verdict. It's not something that came from the sky, it's not something that's made up, it's something that the judicial authority has found was unfair in banking behavior. After it was decided that they had negotiated an unfair way of changing the interest rate, the banks continued to act accordingly. What's this about? It was found and ruled that banks should no longer behave in such a way. However, the banks continued to behave, they continued to apply increased interest rates, did not return interest rates to initial amounts, however, at the beginning of 2014, on the basis of amendments to the Consumer Credit Act under Article 11a. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, However, they are not operating legally from that point on. The proof of that is also a misdemeanor in my particular case, there are more such convictions, but I have prosecuted my bank, it's the Adico Bank, because she didn't make a margin with me. And the Criminal Court in Zagreb has reached an unlawful verdict against Adico Banka 90 thousand kuna Adico banka must pay into the state budget because it has not agreed on margins with me. It's proof that this banking behavior was illegal. However, the Croatian National Bank holds the lottery to banks and believes that such behaviour of Croatian banks is legal, the executive power has done nothing about it, so here is why I propose a law that will restore what has been overpaid to all the damaged debtors by the right hand. On the basis of this powerful collective court ruling, some of the debtors have initiated their own private court proceedings. According to my knowledge, there are currently over 3,000 such processes being conducted in municipal courts. I am in possession of over a hundred first-degree rulings, all those first-degree rulings are in such a way that debtors must be treated with overpaid interest and associated tight interest. All the first-degree judgments I have are such that there is no outdated claim with an explanation that it cannot be obsolete because the debtor who was damaged by the bank's behaviour did not know it until the moment until it was legally established in a collective court trial. So, on 13 June 2013, it was the date when all the consumers who were damaged by the illegal operations of the banks realized that the banks had really damaged them and that is the moment from which all these consumers who were damaged by the illegal operations of the banks could launch their judicial processes. And here, over 3,000 of these processes are being conducted, I know that there are over a hundred convictions, there may be more, but I own over a hundred and I own a dozen judgments because these first-degree convictions are not so relevant. However, I also have a dozen judgments of power and I have attached three judgments of power to the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Legislative Affairs when I explained why this law should be passed. Therefore, apart from the fact that collective judicial judgment is the basis for the adoption of this law, private court proceedings and relevant case law are also the basis for the adoption of the law. Therefore, the rightful private court rulings represent a relevant case-law that must be respected and therefore no longer has the dilemma that this law can be passed. I don't have an impact assessment of the rules in terms of how much this would mean the total cost to banks but I guess it's working somewhere between 3 and 5 billion kunas that banks have unfoundedly acquired and what is unfounded must be returned along with the corresponding tight interest from the day of acquisition. The Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a negative opinion on this proposal primarily because it considers the law to be retroactive, and others because it considers that some of the provisions in the law do not comply with the Implementing Law. As far as retroactiveness is concerned, I claim that the law is not retroactive because it refers to situations that are not obsolete. If the law refers to credit situations and claims on these loans by damaged consumers who are obsolete, then the law would be retroactive and then such a law would be unconstitutional. However, this is about claims that are not obsolete. Consumers are the cornerstone of the Republic of Croatia's economy, we all need to understand that. So there is no growth of GDP without consumers. Consumers are damaged by the work of banks and therefore consumers must be returned to their 3 to 5 billion kunas that banks have unfoundedly acquired. I must say that there is also relevant case-law in the European Union, so Spain has passed a law on the basis of the judgment of EU Court of Justice C 154/15 on the basis of which it has reimbursed the debtors of the interest paid in a non-judicial manner. What was that about in Spain? In Spain, the banks decided not to apply the agreed provisions that were read so that the interest rate consisted of margins and euribors, so they minimalised the interest rate and at one point when the euro was beginning to fall below zero stopped reducing interest rates. However, the EU court said clearly that you must not limit the interest rate in such a way that it can be minimal, if the eurobor is agreed, then the eurobor must also be applied in the event that it is in a minus. Spain, on the basis of this EU ruling, has, before that, taken the ruling of its Supreme Court to the previous issue of the EU Court of Justice, passed the law of LEI1/2017 and, under that law, the bank must repay the overpaid interest to all damaged debtors. This is one example from the European Union. The second example is Hungary. By the end of 2014, Hungary also defined, on the basis of EU judgments C 26/13, the way in which interest payments were paid to all debtors damaged by the illegal operations of banks. In Hungary, it's the exact same situation as ours. There the banks equally agreed on an interest rate to be changed by the decision of the bank and all these increased interest rates were illegal, found to be unlawful and Hungary therefore passed a law requiring all overpaid interest to be paid to debtors. I wouldn't be too long, I think it's clear, I suggest that all those MPs who supported this bill and there are 78 who certainly support this law when it comes to voting. I am telling the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the Ministry of Economy that I am ready to cooperate between the two readings, that I am ready to agree with the positions where I can agree, that we can also discuss retroactiveness, that we can remove these provisions that are contrary to the Implementing Law. So, all this can be solved if I want and I'm afraid the Government of the Republic of Croatia only explains with gloves on its hands as if it were for that model, in fact it's not for that model but it's for the solution. Because the government of the Republic of Croatia has given some kind of signal that they actually like the initiative, that it is not a bad initiative, but that they do not like the model, that it should not go through the changes to the Consumer Protection Act. However, when I asked today the representative of the Ministry of Economy on the Committee on Law, which the model suggests, I did not get an answer. So, I think it's just cheating on opponents under quotes, but I still appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that if the law passes into another reading, we sit together and work together on a good solution, and a good solution is that solution that will bring back to people their overpaid interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53902	I thank my colleague Alexic for this explanation of the bill. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Alexic, means a founding unfair interest in the court's verdict, the government's opinion negatively. Well, it's not the government's choice of banks, it's the people's choice. This is where the triba simply invite the parliamentary deputies to stand by the people because they didn't give, legitimateized that government to represent the people. It is not clear to me why they give a negative opinion when you list court practice, in these cases and in Europe, in other countries, when it is the fact that we have the rightful court rulings because of unfair interest, and banks act as if they are, as if Croatia is their pasture, and the government is the only one who serves them at the expense of the people. But yet this House is the largest body, and here it shouldn't be slow to go through the second reading, it was free to go in the first reading that the government is working in the interests of the people. But apparently the Government, the Ministry of Finance has obligations to banks that certainly draw through fees, commissions of 4 billion kuna per year without interest from the Croatian people. So this is an unnatural government, this is a banking government if she gave a negative opinion. And the Croatian National Bank is a service to these banks against the bank. So the tribbaum is removed from the Croatian National Bank, meaning absolutely both Croatian and national, the triba to make it a monetary bank of banks in Croatia. So, I don't see any reason, no reason why this proposal of yours doesn't go through, and 78 signatures you've already received, that it doesn't go through here unanimously, no reason. If the government disagrees with the people, i.e. The verdict, therefore, is that I, there is no doubt here at all, there is not much to be debated at all, we should vote immediately and regretfully what it really is at 9 o'clock this topic. But it was done on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53904	I thank my colleague Bull for this replica. Answer, colleague Alexic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53905	Thank you, dear Vice President. Col. Bulj, the problem is that the Croatian National Bank holds the lottery to the banks, it is the biggest problem. Vice Governor Fraz claims the banks are doing a fair job, doing business legally, he's interpreting it right there. Governor Vujčić always shifts the ball to him and unfortunately they argue that the fact that the banks have illegally negotiated the interest rate does not mean that they have unfairly changed the interest rate. It is nonsensical because the collective judgment states clearly and decided that the banks' contracting an illegal interest rate does not mean that the initial interest rate was also illegal. So the verdict only mentions the initial interest rate, not the change in interest rates and the verdict tells banks not to behave like that anymore. I, as a parallel, will mention this shameful parallel to the National Bank of Serbia. It is a shame for the Croatian National Bank that in 2011, the National Bank of Serbia proposed a law that resolved this case and said banks illegally agreed on an interest rate, she said they should not apply an interest rate higher than the initial interest rate and, in addition, she suggested that banks in Serbia be paid back to debtors. So, the National Bank of Serbia did this in 2011, and the Croatian National Bank, which is part of the European Union, defends itself from it and defends banks. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53906	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53907	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Alexic. You've launched this initiative. From the very beginning you had the support of the club MOST, as well as a large number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. You got the signatures and, as my colleague Bulj said, I don't see how the government can go against it, I'm wondering how those MPs who gave you the signature will be appointed and supported your initiative what they will do in voting on this proposal. It will be interesting to see, because it will be an indication that what they're talking about is not fellow Bulls, that they're not protecting the interests of the people, and here it's obvious that it's illegal interest, that banks have made huge money at the expense of our citizens, and we have judgments in that direction. And the government itself is looking for a solution to help citizens that they don't have to go to the lawsuits, and there's a parliamentary representative who takes the initiative himself, giving them a concrete proposal. If there's something wrong, then you can talk it over, correct it and go for the benefit of the citizens. But obviously this government isn't in the interest. This was also shown in the CNB Law where we asked for the revision to enter the Croatian National Bank. That law was here in front of parliamentary deputies. In the debate he was even supported, so here also by the SDP and means by HDZ when the vote on the point came, HDZ representatives all voted against entering a revision into the Croatian National Bank. This shows that these people are not MPs. They are representatives of their great leader or leader, or interest groups, who tell them how they will vote. But thank God there are us in the Croatian Parliament who vote depending on whether something is good or not. So we're on our own conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53908	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy, for this replica. Here's your answer, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53909	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Grmoy, I hope that all 78 MPs and MPs who have signed support will vote for the entry of the bill into the second round, at least that much. Well, then between the two readings, there's time to fix some things that the government doesn't like. As for what you're saying about the ruling coalition, let's say, unfortunately, we're witnessing that back in the 20 years, always ruling has certain military behavior, but that's a negative behavior, because it's not war. This is where you take care of society. If we take care of society then we have to think for ourselves sometimes, we don't always have to, but sometimes we should and I have to say that there are MPs and MPs and from the ruling coalition who support me in the halls, but when it comes to voting for something that's good, the vote will probably be against. And it's only because of this one military discipline that can be good to a certain limit. I therefore appeal to all MPs and MPs to think for themselves. This is not about any interest of its own party, or Goran Aleksic, or the minority in the Parliament. This is about the interests of Croatian citizens, and we are here to protect these interests in accordance with the rule of law. So, I'm not asking for anything over my knee, but I'm asking that the rule of law be respected, and the rule of law is a powerful collective judicial verdict that the banks are convicted of unfair business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53910	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply. We have another replica. Dear colleagues, Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Alexic, well, it will be interesting to see how the colleagues who have given you support here mean 78 how they will vote when the vote comes. Because in this particular case, you don't need the government's opinion if that's how it is, because this House of Commons is making laws. But it's interesting to ask the question when we talk about this retroactivity, how it wasn't retroactive for Spain, how it wasn't retroactive for Hungary and how it wasn't retroactive for the court. Well, I guess the court is following retroactiveness is something retroactive. So we have a powerful solution, so we already have practice. If we have the practice of my people, then that means it's not retroactive. It means as soon as he's so judgmental. We even have directives like you said. When I have no reason to see that when we finish this story of retroactiveness and that we begin and judicial decisions that were necessary to just implement them into the law and actually relieve the courts that you are also helping the government and courts to unload such a form of illegal business. So I ask your opinion, how is it that for other countries it is not retroactive, for the court is not retroactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53912	I thank my colleague, Lalovec. Answer, colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53913	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I explained it wasn't retroactive and that's why it wasn't retroactive. But now I would pull one parallel with some other laws that we passed, which had no basis for judgments, so we passed the Law on the conversion of CHF loans. The law had no basis for any court practice, so we passed it. It was courage to help people in this case who were really badly damaged by huge, huge wars. Recently, we have had the opportunity to pass another law that has no basis in court practice. Even in that law, we have declared contracts to the unscathed who are thus contracted. It's about contracts with foreign cooperatives. So, the government dared declare contracts to the unsuspecting, and now we have court practice here, so we have everything on the table, we have grounds, but we won't. Who are we afraid of? So we're afraid of ourselves. Are we sovereign land? Are we a sovereign state? Is this Parliament sovereign? Is our judiciary sovereign? Who are we afraid of? The bank. Banks have other people's money and, above all, Croatian citizens' money and these banks charge interest 300% more expensive than in Germany, for example. and only because it's illegal. So, this bill of law if it is passed by this law, we're just going to give people back what's theirs. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53914	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply. I call on the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Ms Natasha Mikush Zigman, to give an additional explanation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53915	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here, let me first remove the thesis that the Croatian government is not taking care of its citizens which is absolutely not so. The Government must also take into account, therefore, the correct legal framework in which it proposes the adoption of certain laws and, in this context, I would like to explain the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amendment and addition of the Consumer Protection Act submitted by the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic. As has been said, therefore, the Consumer Protection Act provides for a procedure for the protection of the collective interests of consumers who are being initiated before the Commercial Court in the event that the rights laid down by the Consumer Protection Act or the rights which have been established have been violated, that is to say, other regulations set out in that law. Therefore, these rules are tax-based in the consumer protection law itself. The Institute of Corporate Consumer Protection itself is therefore a procedure where the judgment which is therefore brought in the Trade Court against a particular trader or a group of traders for the benefit of one consumer is, in fact, against the illegal action of those traders in this case, as it was pointed out, so the banks protect all consumers. So she's a collective nature. A particular importance in terms of the protection of the individual interests of consumers has precisely the effect of the ergaomous decision of the court, which means that the court's decision prohibits the illicit treatment of traders against all consumers and is the binding force of such a judicial decision for other courts before which proceedings for the compensation itself will then be conducted. If, therefore, the Court finds an injury as was the case in the case of the ‘Franak’ in the case of the protection or decision on the protection of consumer collective interests in the case of the ‘Franak’ consumer, as it has therefore been brought forward, it shall seek the compensation of individual damages in a special procedure, in which case the court shall not enter into a decision in the case of the ‘Franak’ case as to whether the conduct of the trader is unlawful, therefore the collective judgment shall be predominant that the trader has acted unlawfully. According to the promoter, therefore, Alexic's experience as a consumer in the case of a collective lawsuit has highlighted difficulties in exercising his right in the compensation proceedings and, therefore, this law proposes changes to the consumer's compensation, in terms of limitation, claims based on the basis of the return on the amount of interest paid, then related to the costs of the exercise and the fees themselves. With regard to power of reference or to the question of limitations itself, it is also proposed that the law in question applies to all the powers of the collective protection procedure, regardless of the date of their power, so that the whole law has a feedback effect and I will say something more detail later on. However, first of all, I would like to refer to the fact that the law therefore taxively states the rules under which it is possible to initiate a claim for the protection of the collective interests of consumers, so with the rights which the Consumer Protection Act itself states, there are other rules such as the Law on Mandatory Relations in the section relating to liability for material deficiencies and guarantee for the correctness of the goods sold, so what the consumer buys, then the Law on Electronic Trade, the Law on Consumer Credit, the Law on Services, the Electronic Media in the section relating to the audiovisual media service, then the Drug Act, the Regulation on the way of advertising on medicines and the Law on the implementation of the Regulation on the rights of passengers in the carriage of buses. Therefore, all these regulations are taxed as rules that allow for a collective consumer protection process to be initiated. The argument of the Government therefore why it did not accept this proposal is that consumer lending is in fact just one of the areas to which consumer collective interests are concerned and that the basic purpose of the consumer's collective interests process is to prohibit the illicit behaviour or behaviour of traders towards the consumer and that it is not appropriate by law to single out a specific area and to specify a problem which applies only to one of the areas mentioned in this law, in this case it is consumer lending. With regard to feedback, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill suggests that the whole law therefore has a reverse effect until the provision or Article 90(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes that, for particularly justified reasons, only certain provisions of the law may have that kind of feedback or feedback effect. As regards the relationship between the provisions of this law and this proposal and the rules relating to the executive and litigation proceedings, it was also pointed out, and the view of the Government that, with regard to the proposal made by these amendments and amendments to the laws, it is prescribed that the provisions to which an executive should not be subject to the costs of the executive procedure and since the matter of costs is governed by the Implementing Law, that is precisely how this proposal is given in the amendments and additions to the law would not be in accordance with the basic rules of the enforcement procedure. In addition, in the light of the proposal prescribed that the consumer does not pay a court fee in the event of a court case in the course of the case, we hold that it is not in accordance with the general rule of the Law on a litigation procedure, and therefore these are also the reasons why we consider that in this form the law could not be adopted. I further stress, therefore, that the Government respects the problems of consumers in achieving their rights in the compensation procedures resulting from these proceedings. However, given all that I have previously stated and given that consumer lending is only one of the areas in which the protection of consumer collective interests is concerned, we hold that it is not possible in this way to edit more in detail the Law on consumer protection of collective protection, which applies exclusively to consumer lending, but we believe that it is necessary to find other models that would solve these problems. Following all of the above, the Government proposes not to accept the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53916	I thank the Secretary of State, Mrs. Natasha Mikush Zigman, for this explanation. We have a few replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53917	The Honorable Representatives of the Government. A colleague, Alexic, is calling for unfairly established interest that the court has reached. Therefore, you are the government, and the representatives of the government elected by this Parliament, and you are those who could agree on what Alexic called for, may have resolved certain things. However, the fact is that everything that counterpart Alexic said happened in other countries and that other countries have sided with the people. So now we ask the question we parliamentary representatives to you, 78 parliamentary deputies signed, this settlement to banks, the Croatian National Bank that suits you? And now you, in the case of the Scybol, which I'm glad to see, could have fixed the little details, because your arm was 76. And OK. And this law, based on a powerful verdict that is at the expense of the Croatian people, because it is clearly the verdict that it has made, and you are guessing with the banks that is the fact. Four billion kunas, that's confirmed, here's the minister of former finance, annually on fees and fees to the muse of the people. These are the interest that they themselves made in contracts as they were willing and robbed by the people. And it's your responsibility, i.e. to raise our hands in the interest of the people and stand behind the people once, not to protect the banks. As much as the banks were protected, we're a sovereign state. Our system The Croatian National Bank is working against the interests of the people. We sold the gold to a gram, 15 tons. We've got all the Croatian people, we've got the economic system, criminals walk free, and the banks won't pay the interest back to the people. Alexic is 100% right here has support and the triba has majority support, not majority to and one parliamentary representative should vote. I hope that our chairman will vote from the heart for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53918	I thank my colleague Bull for taking care of me. I'd just like to ask you to respect the time you speak. We're going to the next line. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53919	Mrs. Natasha Mikush Zigman, how long will your flocks in the government lie to this tormented people and make fools of all of us here? A verdict has been passed that the banks have to return overpaid interest, the banks do not respect it. Instead of you as a legislator forcing banks to honor it, you're not doing anything, you're just selling buns and turning your eyes. And then a colleague makes a concrete proposal to finally correct this injustice that not everyone has to sue the banks separately, but to simply give the banks the obligation to accept a collective judgment and you don't want to accept it. You may be ashamed. And shame can be the whole HDZ that refuses to miss this law unlike the entire opposition, including even part of the ruling majority. So minority representatives support this proposal. So, even Serbs who appear in the media as enemies of Croatia and they will vote for the return of overpaid interest to the debtors, and you of the HDZ who therefore represent the interest of the Croatian people will vote against it. You may be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53920	I thank my colleague Pernar. The answer to the esteemed secretary of state Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53921	Thank you very much. Here I'd like to not be personal, because it's not a personal matter, but it's actually a question of how the regulation is arranged, and in that sense I've done my best in the name of the Government and given an appropriate explanation. So, what I would like only to point out afterwards is that you mentioned the opposition, or representatives from the opposition, is that in September 2015, therefore, the same or similar proposal was at the vote in the Croatian Parliament, and then it was also rejected, or the government decided then that the government decided, in the same way or considered inappropriate through such a solution, the Consumer Protection Act to edit this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53922	I thank you for your response to the Honorable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman. We have another replica. Dear colleague Miroslav Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53923	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you are here today as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to quote your last sentence, that you understand the problems of consumers in their intention to compensate for their damage, but that other models need to be found in solving this problem. I would like you to answer very specifically, which other models of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are currently being found and created to help 100 thousand Croatian families affected by this injustice and totally inappropriate behaviour of foreign banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53924	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic. The answer to the esteemed secretary of state Natasha Mikush Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53925	So the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, therefore, submit a model proposal when it has one and will, of course, cooperate in finding a suitable model that we believe is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53926	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, respected counterpart Miroslav Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53927	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. And here we are today, and every night, in the end, we can hear disdain because of the late terms of different laws, because they're all kind of important or some kind of report that we consider important. We all call for the importance of what we are discussing, and I have no doubt that when colleagues claim it, they have arguments. Surely we would like our views and suggestions to be monitored as widely as possible by the Croatian public. But in this law, I think we, too, have even stronger arguments for dissatisfaction that we are discussing in these late hours, some that are measured in hundreds of thousands, some that are measured in billions. When I say in hundreds of thousands, I mean the number of families and the number of Croatian citizens who are at risk because we haven't found what the government representative told us, or the models to solve this problem. And when I say billions, I mean billions of kunas that banks, foreign banks in Croatia have been successfully keeping in their vaults for years, and they're not their property, and they don't pay any interest on those kunas. So, kunas that have been taken from Croatian citizens by fraud, a fraud that has been proven by a judicial verdict. In addition to these hundreds of thousands and billions that I mentioned, we have one fairly small number, which is still significant and significant for the need for this debate to take place in another term. That's number 78. It is the number of MPs signed by counterpart Alexic to support his surrender in the procedure of this bill. I think it was also one strong argument to bring this debate before. The MOST of Independent Lists, as known, will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act. We believe that the Croatian Parliament should react as a legislative body and also speed up the work of the Croatian Government when it comes to such an important issue and when our citizens should be protected from the illegal and illegal behaviour of foreign banks. When we look at this case, we can ask ourselves because we are often told that it is a shame that we do not have Croatian banks in Croatia, that the Croatian state does not have its own bank. We have one but relatively small. On the other hand, it turns out that banks have their own state, so at least we act very irresponsiblely, irresponsiblely to our citizens, irresponsible to the potential of the growth of the economy, which ultimately hides behind the possibility that this verdict, that the verdict be carried out and ultimately to help citizens with the legal solution. This is not just another change or addition of the law, but also a social issue, a problem that concerns a large part of society. For this reason, I am pleased that most parliamentary representatives have shown that despite any other differences, there is a sensitivity to the importance of this topic and to Croatian citizens and that it has supported this law with its signatures. I hope it doesn't surprise us when we vote. Or maybe it'll surprise us, it's hard to define exactly there. Unfortunately, this is another evidence of one of the most important problems of Croatian society where we are particularly rotting is the judiciary. So it is amazing that in 2017, in a country that is a member of the EU, it is not possible to comply with the judgments of some 100,000 Croatian families, a verdict that directly affects the standard of citizens and GDP. I think it is sad and that the Croatian state in this situation should show that the state is its citizens, not the state of banks. As far as the proposals and the precise provisions of the law themselves are concerned, I have already said more about them. However, we can say that what is most important is that these supplements prescribe a way of determining the limitation for individual claims on the basis of a final court ruling and a court case for the protection of collective rights of consumers, the right of consumers to recover unfounded profits from a convicted legal person in a collective court process, a concrete way of calculating overpaid interest on the basis of the only collective court process that has been legally completed so far and the way in which the debts are paid to debtors who have converted their CHF loans on the basis of Chapter IV. Consumer Credit Act. The application of this law will limit a certain self-will of banks that we have talked about so far and make clear what is particularly important to the courts. What do we have to do? A colleague Alexic said we have about 3,000 procedures somewhere. Should we have 100 grand? After all, many Croatian citizens do not have the means to do so, and that is where we need to take effect, the representatives elected by that people, the government elected by these representatives and helped the citizens. That's what we expect. The whole job cannot be transferred to one MP who actually worked most on this law without any help from the Croatian government, asking for an assessment of the effects of the regulations and another, what my colleague Bulj said and what we had commented earlier on thanks to God after all that it had happened that the government had helped him at that time. But changing amendments every possible article just because it needed 76 votes at that point. Since I want to leave more opportunities to discuss with colleagues through replicas and not repeat everything Mr. Alexic said in his presentation, I will move on to the end of the exhibition. As for the very retroactiveness that has been discussed here today, we agree that this law should not be seen as a classic retroactiveity. The Constitutional Court has therefore found that there is one form to say quasi-retroactiveness and we think that in the case of the application of this law we will not have a problem, that this is acceptable especially in order to treat everyone equally and that the purpose of this provision could not be achieved in another way. It's consistent with one of the Constitutional Court rulings and I think the team should be led. We welcome the good will of the promoter who made it very clear in his debate, especially in the end, and in media statements that he is willing to listen to any well-intentioned advice, accept any good proposal that this legislative proposal in the first reading, even giving up the emergency procedure, agrees with the Croatian Government's views. That's where the hand is provided. We hope that the Croatian government will also extend its hand on its part, and together with us MPs will find these models to help citizens. I said that we have 78 MPs who supported this initiative, so I would just like to propose to my fellow promoter that it would be a good idea if we had a single vote when this was voted out clearly to see if our colleagues, mentioned in one positive light, were still behind their names, last names supported by the signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53928	I thank my colleague Simic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53929	counterpart Simic, the centre of decision-making must be parliament. We are parliamentary democracy. The people directly elect their representatives to the Parliament and here it is quite clear that most in parliament decide, and the colleague Alexic has collected 78 signatures, which means that this law could go freely and into an emergency procedure, but as you said he has given his hand, he gave in two readings. This is the first reading and I don't see any reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't support this and that it goes to another reading. We had an example when they needed the seventy-sixh hand where they went out to meet and some were, that's good. And here, if you don't need a hand, you need a people, a people to support, our consumers, billions who, where money is, were asking questions about where the money is. The banks that have robbed our citizens, and that they have robbed, are confirmed by a powerful verdict on unfair interest, and the contracts are worthless. I have no doubt that the representatives of my colleague, Mr. Brkic, and everyone sitting here on the left, on the right and behind me will not vote for this law, and the people chose us. To leave the banks with money to keep them in their vaults, instead of increasing spending because it was unfair. It's been declared harmless. To bury the courts, the litigators. However, he will obviously have to listen to what Plenkovic tells them, as Pupovac tells them, as Vrdoljak tells them. I do not believe that colleagues Brkic and others will agree to these orders, but that they will stand behind the people this time. The people chose them. The people gave them the opportunity to side with the people and stop the robbery of the Croatian people. We have a final verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53930	I thank my colleague Bull. The answer of fellow Shimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53931	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, that's right. So if we look at the number of signatures that Alexic managed to collect, there is really no reason to have some discussion in the second reading. But I think it's still a decision from fellow Alexic to go with the law in two readings of good for two reasons. One reason is that we can definitely come up with some more likely and better solutions in this debate with the help of the Croatian government and other representatives. So it's always good to have that first debate. Secondly, as taught by the experience of Croatian parliamentary democracy, it is not always safe for you to have some representative who has signed something to vote for in the end. We'll see. So time will show how much one stands behind not his words, but only words, but behind his signatures. But I would agree with you that in that case, when you noticed what I had said in my speech, I emphasized in one willingness of the Croatian government to help an advocate write the law, when it was important for 76 hands. And you know what? I don't think we'd just be ready and help, at that point we were joking a little bit, then the ruling majority who didn't have a majority was probably willing to write that "the sky is red and the water is dry" so that this would certainly go very quickly in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53932	I thank my colleague Simic for his reply. And I believe deeply that all those who have signed and voted will. Since we have in practice, and your party president signed it, so he didn't do what he signed, we're going to the next line. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53933	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Simic, what concerns him is the position of the government's representative, the secretary of state, who said this is not a personal matter here. What's more personal than the tragedy of people, family? You said it was 100,000 families whose banks illegally increased interest rates and thus took money? Is there anything more personal than that? And the secretary of state tells us it's not a personal matter. It's a personal matter. I'd ask you, what would you say if you were in a case like that? Then would you say it's a personal matter or wouldn't you? And secondly, what's even more tragic is the government's representative saying the government has no solution. So why pay you if you don't have a solution? It is your job to offer solutions for Croatian citizens. And fellow Alexic himself wrote the law, gave it to the procedure, and your task was when you didn't find a solution and a model, to give some corrections, corrections, and then that law went through here without this bile debate, no charges, but regardless of which we have 78 signatures, and I expect it to be so. As for this incursion by the vice president, Bozo Petrov signed what he signed, neither Karamarko nor Milanovic became prime ministers. We got the first non-partisan prime minister, who was brought in by HDZ first, and then crashed. So much for the signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53934	Thank you, fellow Grumoji, for the historical retrospective. The answer of fellow Shimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53935	Dear counterpart Grmoja, here is when the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament took advantage of the opportunity to get a little involved in our debate I would just like to ask him and recommend that what he says is signed, to look for some kind of portals, I wonder that they had not done this before, given that they were very interested in working with the Mosto, and to see that Bozo Petrov actually did not violate any of what he signed. And as much as he has changed along with us the Croatian political scene that perhaps few colleagues of Grmoja have indicated, I believe that will be written about it in the future. As far as how personal this is, I think for each of us an agent when it comes to the fates of so many people, of course this is a personal matter. The personal matter is especially that for those of us who have supported this law with our signatures, and that is why I believe that the colleagues who signed it for their personal contribution will not escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53936	I thank my colleague Simic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53937	Well, hello, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Simic and his discussion. Especially when you were talking about the impact on the gross domestic product. Now imagine 1% of gross domestic product is in illegal interest rates. Now imagine that 1% of these products are gross domestic products in the hands of Croatian citizens. It is multipled to you, it is multipled to you just as the Croatian hospitality rate is 3.4% multiplied by the conversion of the Swiss franc, so you get multiplicated and this share where people would enter this money, if we know that the component of the gross domestic product is 60% of the consumption of Croatian citizens and when they would get these 3 billion kunas that are theirs and when we see that it is 3 billion kuna of some 100,000 citizens, it is 30 thousand kuna. So some yearly salary of a Croatian citizen went to illegal and overpaid interest rates. And now that you bring it back to a citizen, how much would that affect gross domestic product? And we think that this is in the interest of both the government and the Croatian economy, that this is actually not in some accounts that you said to some accounts that are not actually used in the economy, to come back if it's illegal, to get into the economy and thus the state continues to encourage the economy, and growth, and buying Croatian products. And another part where there must be a large part of the fuel tank for stimulating economic growth is those blocked citizens. And if we were to solve some of these neural points, which are overpaid interest rates, blocked citizens, believe that there's definitely up to 3 to 4% of the gross domestic product for the economy, and I think if we have solutions like this if we all agree that there shouldn't be any, eventually these banks will make it again, but let's let them make it legal. That what it is to return to the economy and then you will see that multiplication so I say what you're saying is just strengthening your arguments, that it will have a more multiplier impact on the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53938	I thank my colleague, Lalovec. The answer of fellow Shimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53939	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, for a short time, we agree that such a move would definitely affect GDP growth, as the Franks have affected. While you were talking, I tried to find the meaning of an article, unfortunately I failed, but about a week ago I read it again, and these were the estimates of the governor of the Croatian National Bank, when you were the minister of finance and worked on the conversion, what a blow to the banks and the Croatian economy. We saw that banks are doing very well today, that Croatian GDP grew after that. I'm sure a move like this would do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53940	I thank my colleague Simic for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and SNAGE esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53941	Dear ladies and gentlemen. What we, or citizens of Croatia are experiencing today, is national terrorism. The worst form of terrorism directed against not selectively, against the entire population being terrorized together with banks. In fact, it has been found undeniably that banks have illegally changed interest rates. And by the logic of the matter, how many, and which is the case collectively, so in the name of the consumer, a verdict has been made that banks have to pay back the money to consumers. But as you know, the banks are making a blur and they don't want that money back. And then he asked fellow Alexic the question – where is the money, or when will the money be returned to the citizens? And instead of the banks hand over the money or forcing the state to hand it over, the banks advise citizens of a lawsuit and then everyone has to sue separately and go out of date, etc. And since the government is doing absolutely nothing to pay the citizens back the interest money that has been uncontested, fellow Alexic is doing a phenomenal thing, giving a concrete proposal, and every time I do, I would call them Alibab and 40 and some of the thugs from HDZ there tended, which would happen, they would always say Mr. Pernar, give a concrete proposal. Why are you just criticizing, make a concrete suggestion? And then our colleague from the counseling club Goran Aleksic says -- here's the HDZ gentlemen I'm not just going to criticize you for not doing anything, I'm not just going to criticize you for not doing anything about the money that the banks illegally took to the citizens, but I'm giving you a concrete proposal, what you've been looking for all along. However, what is the HDZ response? The HDZ's answer is that Mr. Alexic's concrete proposal is not your support. Gentlemen of the HDZ okay, you don't have to support it. Give you a better suggestion. If the problem is technical, counterpart Alexic will be happy to change technical details. If, however, you consider the proposal to be as bad as it is, please give the gentlemen of the HDZ a proposal that would be better and that would resolve the issue. I'll vote for him first. So this isn't about us deliberately insisting on a bad proposal, or that there's vanity for us from the opposition that a better proposal to solve this issue wouldn't support it. No, this is simply about HDZ and Priory refusing to solve this problem. So, HDZ and Priory don't want the money that banks illegally took back to citizens. And then what are we talking about here and arguing about in these tiny evenings? About what? What's the matter, gentlemen of the government? You government gentlemen don't even listen. You came here just to tell some of your stories, to cold-bloodedly throw away what's being said and to you the day goes on. Why? Because you don't care how our citizens live. That's why unlike 100,000 pensioners, you don't have a pension of less than 500 kuna. Today my wife wrote to me, her father has a pension of 300 kuna. Hey, 300 kuna, so that's not even enough for the cost of the execution to cover if it's got any work to do. What do people live on? You yourself know that credit debtors are one of the most endangered social structures in the country, but not credit debtors like Ivica Todorovic, who you work for in a special law and who laughs at your face and works out of all of you fools, but credit debtors who have small loans in total, but who are big for them and whose law would drastically help them. But you just don't care. You just don't care. You may be ashamed not only of yourself, but of all the voters who chose you to make decisions against them. And what HDZ is doing against the Croatian people is a democracy, a culture, this is an aristocide. So, you simply liquidate all the smart people from the public scene, you've filled the whole society or all the institutions with your own love, and you're telling us about the education strategy here, I don't know what not. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we know what it takes in Croatia to succeed in life. It's not a diploma. You've set up a plumber for the library director in Slunj. You may be ashamed. And the educated people leave the country and stand on the labour market. Well, this is tragic. I don't know if you'd cry or laugh. And I don't understand why you don't have the courage to look into your eyes now that I'm telling you all this. And I want to congratulate my colleague Alexic on being constructive. However, fellow Alexic as you yourselves see your efforts in vain because here you are meeting with Alibab and a group around him, not with honorary representatives who will work for the interests of the people. And I repeat once again, you care so much about the Croatian people so much that Milorad Pupovac will vote for this law and he has given a signature to let that law go, and you who are to God represent the Croatian people and you are protecting their interests will not, which is, in fact, acknowledging your shameful role, which is mutilation, repression and the migration of the Croatian people and that people, even if it were another people, let's say that you are doing this to Serbs, I could understand because you have a national agenda, but you have a national agenda against the Croatian people, your own people to whom you belong do so. Now, I can't understand that. It just goes beyond my intelligence or I'm too stupid to understand your logic of thinking, or you're simply corrupt that you don't want our people well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53942	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. I would really ask you these stories that you read for the children of Alibaba and 40 heiduks and robbers keep to yourself and read to the children, and such ugly words about colleagues and fellow MPs I would ask you and appeal to you not to use in this High House. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53943	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here in these small hours I would refer to my colleague Pernar's exposure and I would say yes, indeed. We have often heard from the ruling majority – ah, you Pernar, Bunjac, Sinčić, Live Wall, Alexic you can criticise but give solutions. We will support the solution if they are in the interest of the Croatian people. And here's what happens? Representative Aleksic wrote an excellent law, a law based on a final court ruling, a law implemented in a number of EU Member States, a law which supports the European Court of Human Rights to bring it to the Parliament, a set of 78 signatures, to bring it to the procedure and then only one party, the one most busesed in the chest when talking about the people, says that the law should not be adopted. And what is it essentially about this law that is as we see it is in small hours? And tomorrow lives the wall again when it proposes solutions what do you think is the point of our law on freedom of choice for vaccination? Well, of course the last one. And next week again, when the Living Wall comes with the Bank Taxation Act, you can guess again which one we'll be up to. And why is that done? Because this law means to protect 100,000 Croatian families that have been robbed. 100,000 Croatian families. Because in Croatia, an even powerful verdict has been passed, which is not carried out, which is a double injustice. And I can now tell the HDZ deputies who are offended by our true statements, and they're sulking but the fact that you're not interested in 100,000 families, you're only interested in 200 families. It's a policy that you set up 25 years ago by declaring your first president and being consistently implemented today. It is not important to help and robbed citizens, I admire you, Agent Alexic, in your efforts and I really congratulate you. But I must tell you that you are a very romantic man, an irreparable optimist because HDZ never returned money to anyone. So I don't know how you could come up with the idea that he'd pay you back. Have you not heard of that legendary statement that “he took the pit? ” So did they return I don't know the money from war profit? How many war-winners have been convicted in Croatia? Do you want me to tell you how much? 1. In Croatia, one war profiteer was during the Homeland War and he returned 3 million kuna and the rest of me don't know 30 billion is not coming back and will never be returned. They spend their lives in fairies, in London, in Mauritius, in the Maldives, the Caribbean, the Virgin Islands, in accounts, etc., they don't pay back, they only take money. It's their policy. And that's why they heard you at 10 o'clock in the evening to speak and bring here the administrator, very low in the hierarchy of the whole system to cold-dick you that there will be nothing of this law not because it is not good but because it is technically incorrect. No points, no marks, no questionnaires. And that is why this law will not be accepted. This reminds me of that policy from the time of the second Tito, which, of course, HDZ representatives don't like, they take off the plates, when someone would suggest reforms, and by chance they went to the benefit of the people and then they sent him to Goli Island and only because Comrade Tito didn't personally suggest it. Only he had the right to speak for the people, to do something for the benefit of the people. It was important who said it, not what was said. And if, by any chance, our very good prime minister had come up with it, and unfortunately, he wouldn't have thought about it if he'd thought 50 years in a row and then that would have been fine. But when you said that, you dared say that, that's the problem, and that's why you'll be eliminated. And there is no connection regarding hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens, no matter what the decision will directly affect further poverty, further democratic disaster, further emigration, further reduction of citizens' pensions we hear are already catastrophic. That's what's sad. And I would pray and still hope that the Croatian MPs tomorrow will miss your law in the second reading, that they will not yield at least to those who have signed. But knowing the state of the spirit in this House that I've known for the past year, I must tell you that I doubt that. That's the way things are, it's a dreary future that we can expect not only tomorrow but also for the next 3 years until this incompetent government does its mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53944	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. I would also ask him to pay attention when he chooses words and how he titles certain officials and this is evoking memories and I will not comment on the references of certain gentlemen in the past. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's about 10 hours we're talking about a very important topic, but perhaps Mr. Alexic, a colleague explained this very well. However, just maybe let me tell you plastically what was going on with interest rates. So somewhere out there in 2004, Euribor, what's the interest rate? So from variable, it means interest rates plus fixed margins. And somewhere there in 2004 when they started, we could say that period, the variable interest rate, so that Eurybor they're calling or something like that, was about 4% to you. On those 4% they added a fixed margin. And that fixed margin was about 3% to you somewhere. And then your total interest rate was 7%, 7%, so 4% variable plus 3% fixed margin is about 7%. What's your reference rate? So on it, it's an interbank interest rate on risk-free investments that is part of the total interest rate. But when she started falling, so she went from 4% to 3%, went to 2%, went to 1%. Because of the economy she's down today what they're saying about the Spanish. And it's, for example, 1% for you today. And now if you have such defined parameters, how much is the interest rate supposed to be? If there were 4+3 then there should be -1+3 2 today. And this was ruled by European courts in Spain, which was ruled by European courts in Hungary. And yesterday I'm talking to a colleague of mine who talked to a friend of his and a acquaintance from Austria, and we know that the Austrian banks here are mostly dominant and says his colleague is telling him from Austria that he's panicking. Why? Austrian bankers panic because they have to apply this part of what the European Court has adopted in Spain. And he says European banks now have to apply interest rates in Austria as well. What were they doing? They are this reference interest rate of 4% plus 3 as the Eurobor area descends, they themselves agreed interbanks to go to zero, which means that Austrian citizens who have much higher incomes there than they have Croatian citizens are this 4+3, so when it went down to zero they dropped to zero and 0+3 was 3. 0+3 was three percent, and with 7% when they were in 2004. And then what else did the court say? No, no, no, gentlemen. You can't go to zero, you had to go fully follow Euribor. Euribor came to -1, you have to go to -1 plus 3, so you have to go follow how the reference interest rate is moving and you have to put that part of zero where they stopped because they just randomly did it to this minus how much the reference interest rate must now be paid back to Austrian citizens. Now I want to know how the Austrian banks will do it, and we know that they are mostly owned in Croatia. They have the same models, it will bring them back to their citizens. How will they treat Croatian citizens now? And you know how much interest is still in Croatia? Not this 4 plus 3. They did, what did they do? What did they do? In contrast to the reduction in Euribor, they increased the fixed margin and that is illegal, the court found, this is what the court found. And it's illegal what they did and not only did it, but they changed it unilaterally. They didn't invite you at all, they told you that part. And why is that done? You know why this is going to happen to you, and I've been having talks in the Croatian People's Bank when I warned them about this part and when I was a minister, why shouldn't we do that part, or that we should move along Euribor? They say because all of our sources of funding are short-term, which means when we have short-term sources of funding, which means they have one-year maturity sources. And what do they do in the long run? They place long-term loans. And so they're from short-term sources, and their only sources, the most important sources are savings deposits from citizens. These are their sources that are later placed on the market. So they, and mostly Croatian citizens, save up to one year. You have very little savings for two, three, four or five years. They're mostly saving up to one year because they don't know what the situation is going to be. So 90% of Croatian savings are up to a year, and that's the source they have. And they're actually because of this manualness, they take certain derivatives to cover a certain alignment of the manual and they're actually the whole part of the reasoning, they say they transfer that part like that. And when I asked the question very well I remember when I was, there were more colleagues from the Croatian National Bank back in 2004, in 2005 about these when we had talks only one colleague got up and said whether you said you were normal. Says the banks would go down. I said what, my people, what you're talking about. What do I care if they did what they did if they went down or didn't go down, that means they actually transferred their business to the burden of the citizens. He was transferred to the burden of the citizens. And you know how many Croatian citizens pay back their loans as high as they are in returning their loans. So only about 6 to 7% of Croatian citizens find it difficult to repay their loans. You know how much that's about the economy? It's about 25%. You know what's going to happen to Agrokora now? I told them there's your problem. Now the share of bad discounts will be raised safely because of Agrokor because they will have to book everything. I'm just asking the question now if Agrokor has made corrections to his balance sheets, if they've been made by business banks. Because if Agrokor corrected his claims, they must be corrected by business banks just as Ramljak did in those books, in those books he corrected them. Now the question arises when you tell Croatian citizens why my interest rates are what we said, my annual salary goes there, why I can't get that return, why I can't get them. You know what the bankers will say to you? Because they have to fix their bad jobs in businesses, that's why. And that's why when they get this part of Croatian citizens paying them neatly out with the losses they make in the economy, which they do in the economy. And now the question is whether it is fair for Croatian citizens who absolutely have nothing to do with the business policies of banks that placed that money in Agrokor and then do not know what their gross balances are. Imagine they place money and don't know they haven't booked 3 billion kunas? You know what, every one of us here to go to the bank you can raise out of 10,000 kunas and then tell you look at everything we know, scan.../The speaker doesn't understand. When you, when a private citizen comes and takes you away, the financial situation takes you away, right? So he takes you not only financially but he looks at you where he works, who works for you, right? So where's someone in your family? And you can't ask me a question when an ordinary citizen wants to raise some non-intentional credit, 10, 20, 30 or 50 thousand kuna, all possible data is taken from you and you're all there and then they give a billion euros to one entrepreneur and they say they don't see it missing in his balance sheet, imagine that. Look, they don't see it, but after a year, investigators have to go into these balance sheets and say, "Well, my people here are missing a billion books, and they communicate with them every day, and they communicate and send them." You know what? They don't send them financial reports, no, no, they send the banks a gross balance. And the gross balance is from zero to nine, you and everything you have to do, you have to send each of them to the bank, every conto, subconte. Print it and send it to the bank. And they didn't see that they were missing a billion, 3 billion of their kunas that they had placed, they didn't see it. And now explain to Croatian citizens in the end that someone has to pay for it. Look at this loss in Agrokor, someone has to pay. Who's gonna pay for it? It will not be paid much by companies, it will be paid by Croatian citizens, those consumers who regularly return their placements, orderly return their discounts and in their percentages are somewhere at 6 to 7% I told you and it will take 10 years, watch out for 10 years this part is said to them that no one, someone overpaid, would pay them back, something paid back. And simply this mathematics for many years operates on the Croatian banking market, for many years. And that's what's going to happen for you now and for Agrokor's reservation, and you'll see how it grows and they'll grow something in it. And you will see what will happen. In Austria, they'll have to return it, they'll have to return it to Austria. And then it's just a simple question for you when you'll get your turn, when you'll get your turn. The Swiss what happened to them? What were we saying? At that time, the CNB was very clearly taken in the CNB for what it said about what would affect the economy. The rise in interest rates, the impact on the euro currency, the depreciation. Their document is publicly published, what they were doing. So that after a year and a half of what you were saying in your newsletter, you could write that it was good, that it was healthy for the economy, that it was healthy for Croatian citizens, that it would all be said to be a positive effect for the economy. Watch out and now we're talking about their monitoring and supervisory, their monitoring and supervisory. And when colleagues here at the MOST are looking for a revision of what should be normal, which we will determine tomorrow when the Committee is somewhere, be careful whether a private company has spent or not, we must not ask where someone who has been voted by this House travels, we must not ask. I don't know, I don't really know then if we're there, watch out he's gonna come here and tell you what he's been spending. If... He says no, no, no, don't ask me. I'm, uh, I've got a super-vision secret from Brussels or I don't know who in Frankfurt I've been defending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you think, I don't know how much longer this is coming now, as long as this absurd relationship with this High House is now. But I hope there's a little bit of us gathering here, no matter what it takes around 10 hours, it doesn't matter, we'll be there in the morning. And it was here when, talking about fees, gross fees, about 4 billion kunas, etc., etc., we'll actually come up with these stories as well. And we think perhaps that one Commission of Investigation and business should leave an impact on the Croatian economy, on the Croatian citizen, on the Croatian citizen. And when you see those phantom firms, and I've talked about it more than once in public when I'm talking about it, I remember with Mr. Bohaček, when I was telling him, you don't have a problem with Croatian citizens who pay your loans neatly, you're the problem of a phantom firm that you gave money to, and that's where they're at 45 billion blocked amounts, where you don't have employees, where you don't know where these companies are and that you don't know in the end where that money went. But those reservations, they, my dear colleagues, transferred to your citizens. And then somewhere they've gone, and that's why interest rates don't go down and interest rates don't go down in the Republic of Croatia. There's been a lot of talk, even... Here we are today, at this time that we are at the lowest level of cheap interest rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, but citizens in Austria, citizens in Germany, citizens in Belgium and other citizens. Croatian citizens have not been noticed, all citizens know that. Do you know how many interest rates they put down? Somewhere with 5.6% maybe at 4.5%. I don't know if anyone here can have interest less than 4.5%? And you know how much she should be given their margins? It should be between 1% and 2%, 1% to 2%. And these questions, whether the government needs one hand today or not, will come to an answer. And that's why I think when we talk about it today, we're going to talk about it more and more times about their impact on the economy. And this about interest rates, the banks, that is, the courts made the right decision. Now, we just need to agree here on what the courts have brought, what we're arguing here, we're saying that it's simple for my people to apply it. Let's just apply it and be faster than the Austrians. Because look if the Austrians do it to their citizens there, you know when... Croatian citizens come with this law? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About 2025. Now, because they're gonna have to somewhere, look, he's that down there minus, he's got to pick him up somewhere and pick him up from here, pick him up from here, let's be open, see how much dividends, what they pay out. Everything is transparent from the transfer, dividends in the last 10 years that they've transferred dividends and that's not the problem, transfer dividends. I just want the CNB to tell my people I know what's going on in Austria, I know what's going on in Switzerland, that is, Spain and Hungary. I say my people, hey, there's something going on, I want to apply it to my citizens here sooner than we have to call it here and tell them what's going on there so they wake up and start applying it to the Republic of Croatia. Here, I hope that all of these and absolutely there will support individual voting, individual voting, and let them say the arguments why they signed it, which are their arguments against because we've all talked here today with arguments. No one was talking about any pulsisms, etc. and the measures that have been applied. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53946	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53947	Thank you, dear Vice President. The important difference between us and Austria and other eurozone countries is that they still have a properly agreed interest rate, while the interest rate is agreed to be changed by the bank's decision, so what you explained is in practice but not on paper. It means that the paper in Austria didn't say anything about us, and that's why it was declared an unfair interest rate. What were the banks doing in Austria and Spain? They didn't respect the contract there. That is, they behave in an unfair and illegal manner as long as they can, and apparently in the euro area they can't and can't. Even Slovenia, which is somehow part of our circle of countries, does not have an illegal interest rate, but has a properly agreed interest rate and those with it do not have problems. What were the banks doing at our house? Even sometimes they agreed on a proper interest rate, but when they didn't like the fall Euribor correctly agreed, then they didn't apply it. And why could they behave like that? Only because the CNB allowed them to. So as bank supervision, the CNB allowed banks to behave illegally, allowed them to do it today, and we here have to pass laws to prevent it. One is this law that I have proposed, and the other law will only come on the agenda. This other law will settle interest margins because the interest margins in almost all loans agreed before 2013 are unlawfully agreed, i.e. they are not agreed at all, but are defined independently, unilaterally by the Bank's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53948	I thank my colleague Alexic. Come in, mate Lalovec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you see business in the single European market we just want to be equal citizens and nothing more. So we're not looking for anything that's someone's idea that some transfers that aren't the same as the Swiss franc have been overpaid. When I'm talking about interest rates here, I'm talking about overpaid amounts, and we're actually talking about 27 years of business per model. We're just talking about the business model here, the functioning of the Agrokor that such a model has not been proven successful in the long term. I am just asking the question now whether we are going to discuss the banking model of business and their social responsibility for the economy and how to be partners for both citizens and government. I'm just the whole time I talked to them let's finally when you're talking, you know, you have that commercial citizens of ours in the first place. So just apply it and nothing else! Just what the citizens say are our first priority, our consumers. It's just that they apply it and they respect the court's decisions. I hope that will eventually take a long time, that long process. We know that that's how it was tied to the Swiss and that the Constitutional Court made it, that means a decision. And I think that when we finally have the single decisions and the judicial ones, the Constitutional Court means the entire chain, that we will actually make one change to the bank's business model and that in the coming period Croatian citizens will finally be equal in the single European market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53950	I thank my colleague Lalovec for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, dear colleague Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53951	I would like to thank the chairman, the well-respected Proposer, the honourable representatives of the government. I'll be honest with all of you. It's not easy to talk about this now. Why? Because we have an offer. The other solutions are not being seen, the government is not offering them right now, and in its debate, Lalovec pointed out how great this problem was, how much damage it felt to our citizens by such treatment and loans. On the other hand, colleagues from MOST mentioned that they should feel sensitivity towards the people, not only to the people but also to themselves, because here are our representatives and each of us has or a family member, honestly and before these discussions I have somehow questioned and my colleagues how close you felt this problem and credit in Swiss francs. Of course, we all felt it in a direct way or less direct, but mostly we all felt the consequences of such loans. What we find problematic in the HDZ club, and I see that my colleague Lovrinović has given it a lot of space, and he said all of these criticisms can be discussed what this law regulates in a special area. It means the area of consumer protection. So, as far as consumer lending is concerned, I've been putting out a lot of laws this year in front of the club concerning consumer protection and the comparableity of fees and protection in residential consumer loans and colleagues, and you've had a lot of criticism and suggestions for improvement, and it's good that we've had these criticisms. But I'm not personally glad that I have them here right now. I wish this was a solution and we could pass the law in this form. However, Articles 106 to 122 when we look at the Consumer Credit Act, the process of protecting consumer collective interests is regulated. This means regulating the protection of these collectives in the case of violations of this law where general violations are established, and many other laws of special nature which cannot apply to all areas equally. So in the Consumer Protection Act, the most relevant thing is to highlight prices, unfair business practices, unfair contractual provisions, long-distance contracts, non-business contracts, financial services contracts and the like. This protection from Article 106 also applies to the Law on Mandatory Relations in the section relating to liability for material disadvantages and guarantee for the correctness of the sales matter, as well as to the contract for the organisation of travel. It also refers to the Law on Electronic Trade, to the Consumer Credit Act, to the Law on Services, to the Law on Electronic Media, in the section relating to the Audio Visual Media Service, to the Law on Medicinal Products, to the Law implementing the European Parliament's regulation on passenger rights in February 2011. And the institute contained in this law does not apply in this way only to infringements of the Consumer Protection Act. Now we have other parts, where it is predicted, that as far as the process is concerned, that the one who runs, you yourself mentioned that you agree. I'm just asking my colleagues from the SDP not to disturb the debate a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53952	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you. ... Thank you very much, but please don't disturb your colleague while she's discussing it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53953	As to the meaning of these provisions, which are chosen on the provisions of the Implementing Law, we can say that the person who initiates the executive procedure in this area will not bear the costs, will not pay them, but in order to carry out this procedure then shall bear those costs. We predict that some activities will take place, but we do not predict how they will be financed. In the same way as the court proceedings, so that this law amends the rules of enforcement and litigation and no analyses have been carried out that would lead to the adoption of a new law, which would result in results in other areas. So we can open up space again to speculators and manipulators, and we can see that even with the current executive law there are such situations, that we need consumers to protect them. We can come to another situation with this Consumer Protection Act, that we need them to protect them from something again, because we touch in a lot of different areas, we edit a specific part of this law that is general and not special. Here, that's all I'd say, tied up in this club. And this form of law is not accepted, because not only one area should be normised by this law, but a specific law should be made. This law wasn't passed in 2015 when exhibitors in front of other clubs were members of the government, if I'm not mistaken, so this form is not acceptable now. That's what the people who need to implement it within the government and within the departments we communicate with tell us. And of course, I'm saying, it's not easy to discuss this law, when we hear all of these negative consequences and we feel these negative consequences that have arisen from situations like this, and we don't have a solution yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53954	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic, for the debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53955	When we talk about our citizens, when we talk about the case, it means the verdict, which has been abandoned, and the interest, there's no thinking here. We should vote here in the interest of the citizens. That's what the citizens signed, and that's what the court has passed. The value of that contract begins and ends the whole story. For me, and for you, that should be unanimous. Here we have the verdict, we have the basic document of the Croatian state, or we will continue to work in the interest of the banks. We don't have any parliamentary election representatives here, and that's the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53956	Thank you, fellow Bull. Answer from my colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53957	I thank my friend Bull for the replica. We... We often see shortcomings in other systems with which we have no contact and the last few days, we simply see that some parts may not work, but unfortunately we cannot enter that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said it starts and ends. In essence, we are trying to resolve this legislative proposal, because what has been decided by law, has not ended this story, and consumers have not received real protection. And I think exactly what my colleague Lovirović is trying to tell us is that she didn't end up with a powerful verdict, but... Excuse me, excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Our colleague, Alexic, wants to tell us that the story has not just ended with a powerful verdict, and that consumers are not protected in the right way and that is why these laws are being proposed, and I hope that we will have a solution in the future that will solve these issues. Sorry again, fellow Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53958	I thank my colleague Roscic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53959	Dear colleagues, it wasn't the Bridge's representatives who spoke of the people, but we were talking about that this is a personal matter, which is exactly what you said, about every single man, about all of us here, our families, our friends, our acquaintances. It's 100,000 Croatian families. And that's one huge number. So in that sense, I'm surprised, or I can understand that you're uncomfortable here defending the government's position, that's what you've seen from your exposure. I am sorry that HDZ has put you in such an unpleasant situation, I am sorry here and the secretary of state, who does not defend, of course, his own position, so it was not correct for this comment by my colleagues Pernar, but what I expect, that you who are elected by the people, you, as a parliamentary representative, support what goes in favour of Croatian citizens. And you yourself have admitted that the government has no alternative solution. And this is just the first reading. If there are any objections, either the HDZ Club can, through the Government's amendments, do it and correct it, but definitely needs to be done. The government has found no way to help our citizens. We have the power of judgments, and I expect, through these readings, to correct what may be wrong and to ultimately support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53960	I thank my colleagues Grumoji, the answer, colleague Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53961	I referred to your colleague from the Bridge, my colleague Bulj, and I don't know what you're correcting, because exactly what he said, I put out, and on the other hand, okay, we accept that you're assessing and what my position is, is we comfortable or uncomfortable. But ultimately, it will be assessed by the citizens. I don't think we really need after every presentation of the representatives from any club to report that they appreciate how we feel when we defend each other's legal proposals, because we're all here by our own free will and vote by our own free will, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53962	Thank you for your response to my colleague Roscic. The next replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53963	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Roscic, I said in my statement that I am ready to agree with the government to make it all right. So there's no problem on that side. All that is not good in this law can be agreed on, and it is not true that the law covers only one area because the area of collective consumer protection in the part of the break-up period covers the area of any collective lawsuit for any area. So it's wide-ranging, and there's only one collective verdict being considered because other collective judgments were not or will be for the next two, three years. So this is the first such verdict, the only such verdict, and such judgments will certainly not be for two, three years, because there is no collective lawsuit at this time. Therefore, the Consumer Protection Act is a law that can be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53964	I thank my colleague Alexic. Answer, colleague Roscic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53965	My colleague Alexic, I have listed here eight other specific areas that have been resolved by special law, and I do not think it is comforting to tell us that there will be no other problems for at least two years because two years are a short period. And I think that we should certainly, by special law, settle these issues and similar future issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53966	I thank my colleague Roscic for his reply. We have a final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53967	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm going to have to look back on some of the remarks that were made, which were made during the presentation, so I have to repeat once again that the law is not retroactive. So it's something that banks owe Croatian citizens at this point on the basis of a powerful collective court ruling. Since that's what banks are in debt at this point and will owe for the next 10 years. It is not something that is retroactive, but something that has yet to be done because banks are simply due to Croatian citizens who have damaged their illegal behaviour. I have to repeat once again it's not about one area, so the law does not only regulate one area, but it does as far as breaking the statute of limitations for all collective lawsuits in any area covered by the Consumer Protection Act. I also said it's the only collective verdict at this point and the only collective lawsuit that's been filed so far and it won't be at least two, three years. At this point, I don't think anyone's going to press a collective suit, but simple processes are going on. So if someone is to file a collective lawsuit by the end of that process, it must be at least two to three years. I must say that Croatian banks did not cheat only on consumers. They also cheated on entrepreneurs. Therefore, it would be very good to deal with the problem of the fraud of Croatian entrepreneurs because banks with entrepreneurs agreed the interest rate in the right way, but once they agreed on the interest rate in the right way, those interest rates were not in the right way as they agreed on but were doing the same thing in Austria and Spain. So they changed the interest rate on their own, not according to what it says in the contract. During my work here in the Croatian Parliament, I had two presentations on a specific case where the mayor of one municipality signed a margin one, so the bank would plant him after two years to sign the margin three. He didn't have to sign it, but he didn't know he didn't have to sign it and he signed it. He didn't even know what he was signing. He thus damaged the municipality by a million kuna in the next five years. Unfortunately, he can't get away with it because it's a legal person. He signed it on behalf of a legal person, and legal persons are not protected as consumers. However, there are other cases where banks negotiated interest rates correctly and then did not apply what they said. Why do you need to pass this law? I've already said that there are over 3,000 private court proceedings being conducted in municipal courts. Unfortunately, our citizens are afraid of the court, they're afraid of the costs, they don't believe they'll win the dispute, and that's why they won't go to court disputes. Those who paid off the loans don't even think about the court dispute, they got rid of the credit, and they're satisfied that they got rid of the loan, and they're not aware that the bank owes them another 10, 20, 30, 50,000 kuna depending on what the loan was. I'm going to tell you one case of a judge I know and I know has a loan and I've talked to him about everything and he understands the whole problem because he's an expert, a legal expert. The judge has a euro loan that she raised in 2007. There's the same way of calculating interest rates as we do who got the illegal way of changing interest rates in their contracts. And I asked her, well, why don't you sue the bank, and you know that I've illegally arranged an interest rate with you? That judge told me, be careful the judge doesn't let me back up in court. Well, when a judge says I don't want to go back in court for what we can expect from our citizens. I must say that this is Croatia El-Dorado for banks in the right sense of the word I have already said to Croatian banks in relation to banks in the same such banks in Germany, Austria, Italy earn 300% more than in Croatia. Why? If a bank in Germany charges an interest rate of 1.5%, a maximum of 2% for residential loans and in Croatia 4.5%, the bank's earnings in that case are about 100% compared to what it pays for the source of credit and in Croatia is 400%, the difference is 300%. So 300% more of the bank makes in Croatia than it makes in Germany for the same loan. But only because the interest rates in Croatia are illegal, when they return to legal amounts, bank earnings would be the same in Croatia as in Germany. When we talk about the banks having some losses, let's remember how they went with the Swiss. First, they received tax relief, which was returned to them during 2016 or 2017 a billion and a half, meaning a billion and 500 million kunas were returned to them through tax relief. The second thing that happened at the beginning of this year, tax profits fell from 20% to 18%. What does that mean? This means that since 1 January 2017 banks have a 10% higher profit compared to what they would lose when it comes to tax. 10%. So now imagine if banks earn in the Republic of Croatia gross profits 6 billion kuna, if they earn 6 billion kuna they had to pay on those 6 billion kunas 20%, billions and 200 million kuna taxes. As of this year, it's not a billion and 200 million kuna, it's 120 million kuna less. For the next 10 years, therefore, only on the basis of this reduced tax will the banks earn at least a billion and 200 million kuna more than they have earned since this year. I have to go back to the government crisis. I am offered that these two problems be solved and the margins and the return of overpaid interest provided that I support the government at the time of the crisis. I believe that a government that thinks responsibly should not trade but rather think about the rule of law and that unless the rule of law is satisfied it should not offer such a thing to someone just to get his vote. So we need to think about citizens, not trade. We are here to protect the rights of citizens and their rights based on laws, on judgments. So we have a collective court ruling, there's no reason why this law should not be passed because it's based on a collective court ruling. Bank fraud in the West doesn't exist except for those who do not respect the contract. The difference between the West and the East or the developing countries is that from countries in transition, banks have generally negotiated in all of these countries the transition rate that is changed by the decision of the bank, therefore the interest rate which is unfair. There's no such thing in the West. And that's why there's no such thing as a problem in the West. And that's why there's no court proceedings of that kind. However, we have a collective judicial verdict, we have a foundation, and on this basis we need to support this law. I'm ready, I said already to cooperate with the government, I'm ready to comply with the law completely that it is not contrary to any other law and I suggest that you still support this law, let him go to another reading and let's do it in the meantime in the right way for everyone to be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53968	I would like to thank my colleague Alexic for this closing statement. We have one replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's just a short replica about how much the banks have had a defeating relief or how much less they've paid the profit tax. According to some latest data from the Ministry of Finance, the banks paid a billion kuna net profits in 2016. So it was all the time a debate about how much it would cost taxpayers, etc., so they had gross profits, so they totaled about six billion kunas, we just know what business was in 2016 and then they paid into the Ministry of Finance over billions of kuna net profits. So they paid a lot more money than when they were, while they kept all that Swiss. So the positive effect was on both the Croatian budget and the Croatian economy, on the Croatian budget and, ultimately, according to the CNB reports and the bank itself is a positive effect. So now they can go back to the lending process, they can go into the financing process of Croatian citizens, Croatians so that the multiplicative effects of this work are not the part of the thesis that when we were doing the conversion, where they were scaring citizens how much this would burden the Croatian budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53970	I thank my colleague, Lalovec. Answer, colleague Alexic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53971	Thank you, dear Vice President. So we know that when these things happen that banks get rid of their own bad loans, that their collection gets better and that they have a much better profit than they are in the situation they're in. The problem is, the banks, why do they have high interest rates? Those high interest rates are actually protected from the risk of bad credits. So because they're afraid that part of the citizens will stop paying off their loans, paying off, they charge a high interest rate to everyone they can charge, and that's how they actually compensate for the expense they would have on bad loans. And they're all doing it in an illegal, unfair way that's been determined by a collective court verdict and that's why this law has to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53972	I thank you for your response to a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. This concludes the debate. I thank again for the explanation of the proposal's representative, Mr. Goran Aleksic. I also thank the representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy Ms. Natashi Mikush-Zigman and Head of the Department of the Economy Ministry Mrs. Vesni Buntic for also giving an opinion. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met. With these esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we are done with all the planned agenda points for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 a.m., part of the agenda Annual report on implementation of the Strategy and the Laws on relations between the Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia for 2016. And I thank you for the rest of the evening. The session was interrupted at 22.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53973	We now move on to the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Protection Supplements, first reading, P.Z. No. 167, the motion is represented by Goran Aleksic, the debate is closed. Proposer Goran Aleksic applied for a name vote in accordance with Article 255 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 258 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall be held by means of a vote by standing up and pronouncing each appointed representative for or against the proposal, or abstention. We're going to vote. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Consumer Protection Supplements is not accepted". So I'd like to ask the secretary of the session to call the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53974	Aleksić Goran-antivest, Babić Ante-za, Babić Vedran-antivest, Bačić Ante-za, Bačić Branko-za, Balić Marijana-za, Barišić Drazen-za, Batinić Milorad-za, Bauk Arsen-za, Bedeković Vesna-za, Beljak Krešo-, Bernardić Javor-, Beus-Richembergh Goran-protiv, Bilek Vladimir-za, Borić Josip-za, Brkić Miljan-za, Bulj Miro-protiv, Bunjac Branimir-protiv, Culej Stevo-za, Čika Mato-za, Čuraj Stjepan-za, Čulić Stjepan-zažan-za, Žaljivić-Zažavitović-Zažažavi, Žažavi-Zažažažažažak-Zažažak, Žažavik-Zažavik-Zažažaž-Zažavik-Zažaviktovktov, D. Now we're going to call these. White Cresseau.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53975	Please, please. Please remain silent as our Excellency speaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53976	Beljak Krešo-, Bernardić Davor-, Dragovan Igor-, Glavas Branimir-, Glavasevic Bojan-, Grčić Branko-, Habek Mario-, Hrelja Silvano-, Jerković Romana-, Klisović Joško-, Comparić Devčić Ana-, Kovačić Ivan-, Luc-polance Marta-, Miletic Boris-, Miljenic Orsat-, Mrsić Mirando-, Opačić Milanka-, Parić Darko-, Ronko Zdravko-, Stazić Nenad-, Turina-Đurić Nada-, Varga Siniša-, Vesligaj Marko, Zmajlović Mihael-.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53977	Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53978	I'm sorry, but I'd like to make a statement so that it stays in the record. This is the first time in the history of this House that an individual vote is required in the first reading. It's for one of us, and it must have irritated me a little, because it's actually a form of pressure on the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53979	Thank you. Comrade Alexic, you say while the votes are counting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53980	I have something to say about what my colleague Radin just said. In fact, there are plays being performed in this House, often debated for hours at a time, and this law concerns more than 100,000 families, and I think such a law has earned this kind of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-19-0.u53981	It's all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so there's no need to add or subtract anything. Here are the results, so the result of the vote is the following, for the proposed conclusion, the 72 MPs voted, against 48 MPs, and there were 5 MPs abstentions. Accordingly, I find that the conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies, therefore, is not accepted by the proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Protection Act.
