ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55710	I would like to talk about that the state, or the budget law, is covering up the real state of government borrowing for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55711	Okay. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55712	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most about the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55713	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55714	On behalf of the SDP club on the current within the political and partial external-political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55715	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55716	On behalf of the MPs' club, Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55717	Okay. Is he still picking up? I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55718	On behalf of the HNS club, I'm also looking for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55719	Okay. He's a fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55720	On behalf of the SDSS club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break from the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55721	Okay. There it is, that's it. I'm a colleague of Dodig's. You have to explain why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55722	On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSB, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55723	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9:00 and 50 minutes. It's 9:00. CONTINUE OF THE SESSION AFTER THE 9:50 A.M. MEETING OF THE ACTIVITIES AND COLLEGES, WE CONTINUE TO WORK. The first is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA and a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55725	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I remember when he came to Bedekovčina High School in the same time as Ivica Todorovic to give lectures to students. There was also Mayor Kolar who praised him for all the bells, of course he praised himself and told the students what was needed for success in Croatia. One of the things that Todorovic needed for success, i.e. for this colossal fraud was essentially forgery of business books, so he did not show a real debt situation in Agrokor. We'd think about it, too. Now people see that these debt wrinkles are not ok, but this continues this time in the state budget for next year. What's this about? We are assured through the media by the Government that the deficit is only 4 billion kuna, but there is one other thought, Article 29. The budget law provides for a 22.5 billion kuna debt. If the deficit is only $4 billion in cash, then why is the state in charge of 22.5 billion? The answer is that the government's liabilities do not account for budget expenditure and thus hides the real state of debt or hides the real deficit. The second thought that needs to be said is that this government is going to be raising more loans, but now in another way. In addition to the 22.5 billion kuna that the state directly raises, it still approved 5.6 billion kunas of state guarantees. And what's this about? The state when it issues state guarantees it does so because it is aware that the creditor companies cannot repay these loans, and in fact the state will be the one to repay them, just let's say the forms for the sake of the states are guaranteed, and they will be the ones to raise it even though it is clear that the next year there will be another 5.6 billion kuna, which of course will be returned by the State. The country's total debts in the following year come to a figure of 27 and 28 billion kuna, respectively. But as in that top shop offer, that's not all, there's something else, and that's next, Article 35. The law on the implementation of the budget states: "The Government is authorised to be in charge of foreign and domestic money and capital markets for Croatian roads, highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb, which does not enter the total amount of the debt referred to in Article 29 of this Act." What does that mean? This means that unlike the state guarantees given to state-owned enterprises, even though the state returns them to three separate cases in the case of the highway, the government will not guarantee these entities to be in debt but the direct state will be in charge of them, both on its own behalf and on its own account. That means the state will raise those loans and the state will pay them back. It would be logical to think that since the state is returning them and the state, that these same loans will be recorded or shown in the budget financing account or that they will be added to the total amount of debt, however, they will not because the legislator has provided that although the government is in debt on its own behalf and does not enter into the total amount of debt for its own account. So all the duties that the state will operate directly on its own behalf and for its debt financing account in the highways will not be entered into in government debt. Such a way of bookkeeping does not only lead foreign creditors astray, but leads to delusions of both its own people and this people because of these malice and these machinations, in fact, has no idea or awareness of our country's deep dependence on credits and who is the real master and manager of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55726	Let's go to another debate. It's the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored Fellow Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55727	Thank you, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. After yesterday's debate on the budget that ended last night, it should repeat what happened yesterday in this House, the fact that, without any conclusion, it was extinguished or that it tried to shut down the Assembly's Investigation Commission, that the HDZ colleagues had no courage to even appear before us, means to their colleagues, before the committee, and to make that decision before us because they did not want the memory of these people and their hands to shut down the Assembly's Investigative Commission. They also didn't want to make that decision here where the decision was to be made, in front of this House who set up a parliamentary investigation committee. And then after all that, after that violence, after the fact that parliamentary services called witnesses not to come to the committee meeting, that the President of the Parliament, who admitted it yesterday, had ordered that parliamentary services not be available to us in the Assembly's Investigative Commission, after the fact that the President of the Parliament had violated the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Podolnjak, I think for half an hour, held a plate yesterday for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was impossible to work here in the assembly all because the president violated the Rules of Procedure. After all this, she wanted to introduce it as some kind of violence opposition here in the Parliament. Terrible violence, there's a couple of colleagues banging plates on the constituency benches, unseen. Terrible, terrible violence after breaking all the rules, after trying to shut down the commission, after breaking the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Parliament, is being pounded on the benches like some kind of violence. I personally did not bang, but I asked the chairman to respect the Rules of Procedure and to approve a break to calm it all down, it was not done, nor did colleagues get a chance to give a replica to the prime minister's presentation, the prime minister escaped from the assembly and so the HDZ also did yesterday's parliamentary investigation commission and discussion about the budget and everything else. But I'm going to ask my HDZ colleagues one question now. If they are such legalists, if they are law-abiding and they are convinced that the commission has stopped working on this rightful solution, why are we not going to change the laws that are in the procedure? Why don't we change the decision that's in the process? And if that's not enough for them either, here I promise them, I give them one more hand to see how much they are for the truth about Agrokor, I will personally make a new decision today on the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee that will not have these quality financial reports in the Agrokor concert. A new decision. Let's start a new commission and see if you're up for the truth. Today, the director of the film Boss, Dario Jurican, sent an open letter accusing him of suffocating the truth about Agrokor, and a man gunned down with that fact gave his book he worked on for 3 years alongside the film, so he gave it free online just to show the institutions of this country to fight for a better Croatia, for a more transparent Croatia. Is that what you're up to? Are you up to the truth about Agror? If it is, here's the hand. Give us a hand, establish a new parliamentary investigative commission. Here's the answer, here's my colleague, Boric, after me, colleague Curaj of the CNS, colleague of the Pupovac of the SDSS, and I'm asking them to answer if they're for the parliamentary investigation committee? Just that answer, we're not interested in your law story anymore, that you're legalists, we're not interested in that at all. Here, so you're saying that that's right, you have most of it, you can do whatever you want, let's start a new commission. It is urgent to establish it, just as you immediately brought Lex Agrokor and we also supported it because we wanted to save the economy. We are going urgently for the sake of transparency, the work of the healthy foundations of the Croatian economy, so that no new Agrokor happens to us again, let's do it. Here we go, hand in hand. I'm curious to know what you're going to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55728	The third debate of SDP advocates' club and respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55729	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Agrokor theme today is no less current than it was yesterday or earlier, but yesterday something happened that we still consider to have at least symbolic, greater importance even for Croatia. We didn't touch the events here at any time yesterday, which is the verdict by Ratko Mladic, who was sentenced yesterday to life imprisonment for his crimes as part of a joint criminal enterprise in BiH's aggression. The verdict brought a lack of hope to the genocide victims in his direction, however, there were no other justices. In Ratko Mladic's verdict, the key remains. And that is the condemnation of the link between its action and the official Belgrade. The verdict cited Karadzic, Krajisnik, Biljana Plassic and others as connected persons in the joint criminal enterprise, but lacks a very striking name, Slobodan Milosevic. In other words, colleagues and colleagues, a criminally large Serb regime responsible for aggression against Croatia and BiH has been exculpated. Because of this, those ideological participants of the aggression that profited from the violence, which Mladic shined, remain the real winners of Ratko Mladic's trial. It is Vojislav Seselj, that is Aleksandar Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic and unfortunately many others. My colleagues and colleagues, the court in the HAG has reached a verdict on paper. It is up to us here to really judge the past with our responsible policies. Croatia must be a force of justice and peace in Southeast Europe. Some of our neighbors, in that, at least, until at least some political circumstances change, obviously we can't count. We don't need to. We need to do this for the soul of Croatia, we need to do this for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55730	4th debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55731	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here we heard again today the story of yesterday, which is one of the worst episodes that could have happened in the history of the Croatian Parliament. The colleagues in the opposition couldn't control their anger and started doing it here in the assembly, in one way, which has not been recorded so far. And it was obvious that it would happen, because we who were inside too noticed one moment, when they left the meeting of Petrov, Bernardić, Beljak, Grmoja, for 10 minutes and returned with a message that Croatian citizens certainly did not accept as something that should be the Croatian Parliament. It should simply cease to be a way in which opposition should repair power and seek its political points. But let's go back to these claims about the investigation committee, to deny them again, we're going to tell the real truth. The decision to conduct the investigation became executive Monday 20.11. From 20.11. to 23.11. on Wednesday, i.e. by 22.11. we have received no notice of anything from the President of the Investigative Commission, Mr Milenić. He didn't go to trial or send an e-mail. To inform us of a new moment that has taken effect, based on the law, on the basis of Article 4(2) which may mean that the commission stops working. Not a single notice. He subordinated his function to his own goals, his own politics, his own party, and expected a reaction from the other side to see what we'd do. Responsible people who respect the law, and we are the first ones to be, because in the legislative body, we met, we signed a statement and delivered it to Mr. President when he refused to inform us. Before that, the President of the Parliament did what he was supposed to do. He did it, and when he got confirmation from the county court, then he acted according to the law. He did nothing wrong, but acted according to the law and ordered the Parliament's services to follow the law and nothing else he should have done more than that, gentlemen, whatever you wanted. Where does the SDP drive us? He's driving us to a place where gentlemen of the Parliament say you don't have to obey the law, we're going to anarchy. You citizens, look at us, you can do the same. It won't be like that, gentlemen. You have the right to fight for your goals by democratic means. Well, that was a democratic asset yesterday, too. But you've been caught in the compensation of your conscience, obviously. You've seen for yourself that you've entered a place where it's not nice to be. Why? My colleagues from the Bridge, so you're clearly dancing as SDP plays. What's that for? What do you need this for? Because this commission hasn't been shut down as you claim and try in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55732	My colleague Boric just a little bit, my colleague Boric, just a little bit, I beg you, therefore, you have spoken both of you and all of you have kept your mouth shut. Now I'm also asking you to listen to what you may not like. Let's not throw, let's hold. If you like it. ... Then you still have to listen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55733	Thank you very much. Well, that's obvious. When the main maestro, yesterday's performances, Mr. Maras started banging, with these tiles, banging and colleagues from the Bridge. That's the support that's showing up and you can't run from it, gentlemen. As for your taking on the role of investigators, each of your doubts is, in fact, already in the public of some power of judgment. And we're denying you everywhere, and that's not the case. It's not like that, Mr. Grmoya, because you've denied yourself. You told us on one case, one witness you had to trust, and on the other, the case of that same witness, you told him not to believe him. Yeah, so, in one case, trust him, you don't trust him. Gentlemen of the Bridge, we will believe that we want and as we feel that we should believe. You're not the source of truth in the Republic of Croatia. As for courage, you don't need to doubt her. And as far as law enforcement is concerned, we'll do it. And it wasn't the President of the Parliament who broke the Rules of Procedure, it was he who had a clear respect for the law. And that law was supposed to respect this president of the Bureau of Investigation and should have brought us together and said, gentlemen, let's meet to see what we're gonna do at this point. And as for these other questions, we're in HDZ on the same line. From the beginning. So all these stories of yours don't make sense, we deny you every day and start choosing seriously about your role, because it's obvious that citizens won't agree to the obstruction you showed here yesterday. [[Grmoya raider: You did not answer whether to support the establishment of a new commission.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55734	Comrade Grumo, you've brought all kinds of accusations here, everyone's listened nicely, no one's responded. And then when the other side defends itself, then brings out its truth, then you throw and run out now. Now, that's just a picture and an opportunity. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55735	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. So at the moment, I'll just repeat what we've been saying for days. Not just for days, but for what I said two months ago. Short and clear HNS has nothing against anyone or anything, can I? HNS has no objection to anyone or anything coming before the commission, being investigated. But I will repeat once again the law is very clear there and of course we do not agree to any way to participate in the violation of the same. Says the article so much mentioned, but I have to say for the sake of the public that I think anyone who hears it and articulates it can be clear to him at least never saw a single legal book in his life. If a court case is initiated and this is said when he becomes powerful, i.e. when the investigation becomes a power of power that we have received on a matter whose research has previously been established by an investigative committee. One particular question is enough, and that's the case. What, you think the commission will stop working. Point. So he's not gonna stop working on that question, deal with something else, he's not gonna investigate something fourth, he's gonna stop working. It's the law. Col. Milenić interprets him in another way to justify his persistent insistence to move forward with the commission, because he cannot accept that this is true and then say it, and I will continue to break the law. But if he has problems with interpretation as a lawyer and he can't, he's not sure or he won't know, then when he got our statements he should have stopped saying okay, let's go look for official interpretation of the board, the competent authorities, and then we'll get a word about it, and then we'll know what. In one hand, it is said that the commission can only end this Assembly, and on the other hand ask for members to come, to vote on stopping working according to the law is contradictory. On the other hand, we can neither on the committee nor in this House decide which law we will obey or not. We can change it. Maybe it was supposed to change it, maybe it wasn't. That's another topic. If that's going to happen, it won't, as much as there's opportunities in parallelism. There's a state's attorney mentioned. Well, I'd be, I mean, out of my mind and precedent if the state's attorney was telling parliamentary deputies what they could do, they couldn't do. I don't think that's anywhere. If the government's trio is as if we're telling him what to do or not, so I think everyone here would get on their feet, that some parliamentary agent would say what to investigate or not. And he can't even tell us. But on the other hand, we don't know where this investigation is going because we've heard now that it's expanding, and there's now a real question of how much we could have in the amendments to the law and can do something about it. That's what you need to see, that's what we need to discuss. But the situation that should have been done when he wasn't already like his colleague, Boric, as the president said, I asked and informed us he should have stopped, we have a new moment. I don't think so, and let's go ask for an interpretation. I don't mind. To say that only the commission can't end itself, and then ask someone to come and do it, I don't understand anything but ordinary politics. I understand that he has to defend that attitude, otherwise a man can't tell himself I know that the law forbids me to come there in a session if by law I have to stop. But there's my party telling me I have to come and do it. As far as the work was concerned, there were really people who were getting ready. I went in my work with strict questions that, no, I have knowledge, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no, I have no. Unfortunately, we have not received answers, even from some who are let’s say not from those who were of the 1990s but from some who are now current. We've seen a lot of this bickering, and it's that skepticism that we expressed at the beginning, and that's what I'm still expressing that neither one commission so far, so I'm afraid that it's not going to shed light on the political circumstances that it's going to be for a fight. No one can tell me that they don't and I think that as much as the public is interested in Agrokor himself, of course it is, because a lot of people are looking at it because their fates depend on it. How much we help them with that is also questionable. When they come up for that legal terms, we'll keep working. Privatisation does not go out of date and all that if anything was illegal, it must and should be determined by relevant bodies and there is no discount for anyone. And no commission will contribute, nor taken away, or could even be taken away if we do something that is parallel and that is consistent with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55736	Injury of my colleague, Grumo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55737	Your Honor, you have violated Article 238. You disrespected the counsel, questioned the motives of my departure. I have an interview, I'm out of the assembly, and you don't have to say that I run when something suits me. You won't have this one last time to question the motives of my dating or coming to this assembly. So I'm seriously warning you this is your last time, so you're commenting. You won't insult me that way and comment on why I'm going out or entering the assembly. I have an interview and this is your last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55738	You're arresting my colleague, Mr. Grmo? I'm not afraid of you. You're someone a man shouldn't be afraid of. You're not dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55739	You're scared of everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55740	You're not a dangerous man.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55741	.../Grummo's Intruder.You fear everyone and you run behind everyone who is in power....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55742	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've always been in HDZ. So, dear friend I'm not afraid of you that's the first and don't threaten. This has not happened in the Croatian Parliament yet. We can treat certain things differently, but we won't. What I should have done was give you a warning when you were shouting and throwing out of the bench, and I'm not, but I'm warning you. And you're the only one who's doing it during today's debate. So, everyone listened to the other colleagues, you were the only one to throw. And when the debate was over, you ran out with laughter, just to say, with laughter and mockery. And I'm asking you not to. So there must be order in Parliament. There are laws, there are rules, there are Rules of Procedure. They prevent anarchy of chaos and violence, it's a civil gain, and I have to stick to it because if I don't, we'll have a situation like we did yesterday, and I'm asking you nicely not to do it, and especially don't threaten me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55743	Mr. President. I'm warning you again that you're in violation of article 238. I didn't make fun of myself. I was leaving the assembly because I have an interview. Please don't question the motives of my dates and coming to the assembly anymore because you have the right to do so. I didn't physically threaten you, but I warn you not to do it because you have no right to do it and don't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55744	You threatened me. I don't know what you meant by that threat, but whatever you think I don't care about being honest with you. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55745	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I hope that there will be room in this House for some other kind of debate except for the way they are now being led and what they were being conducted yesterday. Otherwise, there is a part of us MPs who will simply decide not to sit in the assembly, and we have other things to do. But this kind of non-political behavior I don't remember. Yesterday's budget debate will be seen when amendments are discussed how many amendments have been submitted. And I remember very well that no debate went through, and that not the largest number of MPs especially from the opposition took advantage of the opportunity to say what he thought was important to him, his constituency or place where they came from, to say that the school had to be arranged, that the bridge needed to be made, that it was necessary to do this or that, and that the government didn't respect it. Who did that yesterday? A very small number or no one. Was there serious debate on whether this budget is sustainable or not? Maybe two MPs discussed it that way. The whole thing is focused and the whole thing is led by some people in a direction where there is not only no political solution but only political disgrace. The water that passed through the river, the one who wants to bring it back, has no elemental mind. And instead of worrying about what's going on with the water, not the one that's passed instead of worrying about what our judiciary is, instead of worrying about what our subsidy policy is, instead of worrying about what our health care is, instead of worrying about what our education is like, instead of worrying about how to stop poverty, we follow the rams that only know about one door. So whoever wants to follow, my club and I won't. So much for yesterday and so much for today. One thing I'd like to say is, there's been a lot of talk with the law of the past few days about the victims, victims and criminals, crimes and criminals, I take the opportunity to say when a man feels the deepest piety towards everyone who has been injured, towards fellow citizens of Croatian nationality, to fellow citizens of other nationalities outside the Republic of Croatia, but I will take the opportunity to say one more thing when it comes to people and the deaths of fellow citizens of Serbian nationality, crimes committed against them, and they are not punished. And more than once it's said, we'll do it, and I'll give you the following example. A woman whose name is protected was raped in the Sibenik Culin Prison on several occasions by more than one prisoner. He has a first-degree ruling on the fact that it was done. By law, the defence ministry's commission was to ensure that the woman was recognised by law as being the victim of this type of crime. You know what the commission did? She said no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55746	I beg you not to do this. Comrade Culej./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55747	... No, he's pretty close to someone else than I am. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55748	A colleague, Jovanovic, well, it's a good thing it's up to you. So come on, please. My colleagues and colleagues. ... My colleagues and colleagues, so please calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's a colleague of Pernar's. This way, just stop acting like it, everybody, stop acting like it, we'll start with warnings and exclusion from the debate. This really doesn't make sense. Comrade Culey, please stop. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55749	I'm saying this for the sake of finally having peace in our country, and I'm saying it because in our country, we share the feelings of respect for the victims and so we don't share.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55750	Thank you. Last debate, dear colleague Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55751	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. After what happened yesterday, after what's happening today, there is really a question of where and how. There's a proverb that says it's not a fool who makes a mistake. It's the one who repeats it. It seems that we are constantly in a situation to repeat mistakes, but the issue of the price of the mistake is raised. The price of error goes exactly proportional to the position of the man who pronounces it and his position of institution in which he says it. That's why everything that's said in this House and which isn't primarily human, beyond that civilization, legally only in third place, has unspeakable consequences. All that happened yesterday in the Parliament is the consequence that people not only don't trust us, but I think they despise this Parliament. Who's to blame should be asked the question of the one who took part in it. If there is an institution to obey the laws, then it is this Parliament. I don't know whether it's a fair law entirely or not, but I certainly know that the way it wanted to get to the truth is whether the law is respected or not completely guilty, and often the way it comes to the truth is more dangerous than not getting to the truth. We demonstrated here yesterday, this Parliament demonstrated non-civil behaviour, non-democratic behavior, that's the story that it's a democratic gain, there's something called a culture of democracy. Democracy is not only the right to say something, to offend someone, to hurt him, and to say something without any responsibility. It was behavior without responsibility yesterday. And when I hear today that there are people who are offended in the way that they are belittled and used the articles of the Rules of Procedure to show that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I really don't know what he meant by it. Here in the Parliament lately, people have been questioning why they're raising their hand for something, questioning their conscience. They're insulted in the worst possible way. And I agree that the one who is hurt and threatened because there is no longer any way to maintain order in this House. So please, Mr. President, take advantage of all the possibilities and change of the Rules of Procedure that this is no longer happening because this has become really inadmissible. Inadmissible. If we're gonna go back to a time characterizing a statement we're not gonna stick to the law as a drunk float, then I don't know what we've been doing. Very often used syntagma here for 27 years fails. So anything good happen in those 27 years? Well, now I can list you for half an hour what was good, that there's a lot to fix, so nobody's denying it. That's why we're here, working for people, working for their standards, working for the restoration of the population, working for people's pleasure, that's our position here and our mission. Here to invite people to come fighting with them, to be physically accounted for is a role model of poor Parliaments no matter where they were or how much they were in democratic processes. So my dear friends, if I may say so, let us respect people, respect dignity, for if we do not, we do not respect ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55752	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate after the break, so let's now move on to our agenda as I have announced. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55759	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST club, I seek a break in the matter of Ratko Mladic's verdict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55760	Convictions to Ratka Mladić? All right. Is anyone else picking up? A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55761	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a break from the general political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55762	Okay, so we have a break until 11.20. It's 11:10 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday we witnessed, she was convicted of a war criminal, general of the Yugoslav Army, JNA, after the Serb army, who committed a crime in Srebrenica, in all of Bosnia. Also, the Croatian soldier is his sacrifice and agreement... Tudjman in Villa Dalmatia stopped an even bigger massacre in the bullish enclave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mothers, Srebrenica, BIH, parents have finally experienced at least some victory, but there remains a stomach cramp that Serbia is neither responsible nor connected in any way, but it is a fact and we all know for the truth that it is false. An even more painful thing is that the verdict did not include Ratko Mladic's Serb commander, at the beginning of the Homeland War, who led troops in an attack in the Republic of Croatia, committed by crimes of the greatest proportions. So we have to count from... the flat wheels, the Zadar area, the Sibenik area, the Drenjska, the Sinjska region, where the crimes were enormous, the material damage even greater. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we remember his victims. Here's the recent Skabrnje... Try, i.e. A committed crime unremembered that didn't work or a Nazi army in the 2nd century. War, no fascists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minting defends Peruc, where in the camera, here is the war cameraman, Peter Malbaš, personally told at that time, Ratko Mladic that the Peruća dam was mined. The Peruca Dam was blasted, fortunately the largest ecocid and genocide occurred after World War II and genocide, because the Peruca Dam with 570 billion liters that it succeeded was mined but fortunately stopped. You'd be suffering the Cetinski end, Omiš, the entire omiš hinterland, and that's nowhere to be mentioned in the verdict. As if Ratko Mladic had not been in our area, as if the war had not begun, occupationally, aggressively, against unarmed Croatian defenders. Only when I remember the areas of Kiev, Vrlika, do we know which victims were made there, but what was Croatian diplomacy, Croatian state, Croatian judiciary, state's attorney? Why the silence of those who were Seselj soldiers, and here I will mention Chetnik Nikolic and the Duke of Chetnik and Chetnik Vukic, who is now the president of Serbia. Why the silence? Why keep quiet people and why Croatians, Croatian diplomacy, finally, according to Vukic instead of allowing the opening of chapters, the judiciary where there will be ingenuity, jurisdiction legal over Croatian defenders, which is embarrassing. To ask him for war damage, 45 billion kuna, the war damage he caused, not Ratko Mladic, he was only the executioner, the executioner, but also Seselj's Chetnik, Slobodan Milosevic, whom he no longer has, he is not mentioned anymore. Simply now, when we wait for the ruling of the Croats in BIH, I repeat, to our generals, to connect them with Croatian aggression, it is difficult for the Croatian state and it is false, because it has become an agreement, the Croatian soldier is a victorious soldier, who saved the bullish enclave from the executioner Ratko Mladic. A number of questions are raised here for Croatian institutions. Why didn't they protect the Croatian defenders? Which is why they were being persecuted, including Croatian heroes who had to defend their dignity in the HAG. They were persecuted by the beasts and today we have the verdict of Ratko Mladic and there are no mention of crimes in the Republic of Croatia in the verdict. Not in one word. And in the area of Serbia, in the BIH area, Serbia's responsibility for creating large-scale Serbian aggression is mentioned, because we need to know that Chetnik Vukic, now president of Serbia, has been calling for large Serbia, in the area of Kline and the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I call on Croatian institutions to finally collect damage and protect Croatian defenders and Croatian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55765	The second is the club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55766	Thank you, Mr. President. Ratko Mladic, certainly one of the biggest criminals of the 20th century. And in that context, the life sentence is not only expected, but nothing below it could possibly be said to be within some justice. We have to bear in mind, however, another fact that this is only a first degree. So, even before I say this about a life sentence, we have to wait and make it second-degree. But the expectations of all the victims, of course, are to confirm that. Considering the crimes committed by Ratko Mladic. However, it is true that the grand failure of the Hague court, which Ratko Mladic was not charged and was not tried for the crimes he committed in the Republic of Croatia. As foreign minister, I also spoke to the UN Security Council. Of course, an even bigger mistake for me is the Hague court's failure to charge at all, and it did not judge the top of the intelligence community in Serbia primarily against the Yugoslav People's Army intelligence service. Because they're the ones who actually were the ones who had the idea of great Serbian aggression. However, the Hague court did not deal with it at all. And that is a question that must be asked here because it is a key issue about determining also the role of Serbia in aggression towards Croatia, towards BiH. Some former prosecutors, or prosecutors of The Hague, said something about it that was some of the cool policy games, international policies in that regard. What the Hague Court has done if even the lower rankings were to process or even some military officials but did not actually go to the top of the intelligence service or counterintelligence service JNA is something that will have to be made quite certain when an analysis of the work of The Hague court is done this year with its work. As far as the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, the fact is that Croatia has introduced a series of criteria for closing this chapter and that this should be insisted. The fact is that we also have a bilateral agreement with the SRJ then, and it was inherited by the Republic of Serbia whose article 7 speaks of a special commission to determine the damage to the war and the war was waged in the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that the group only met once and after, the Serbian side no longer wanted to come to the negotiations. And the fact is that during this government, too, we have made decisions to re-establish a team negotiating with the Croatian side that will try to resolve all open issues in line with the already undertaken commitments Serbia has signed. Therefore, they are legal frameworks both as regards the accession process and as regards bilateral relations. What we want to stress here is that we expect the Hague Court to be held in these final actions that it has in place by the Security Council to stay out of that mandate and to serve really justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55767	We're done with the replicas, Mr. Petrov asked for a break but he gave up his break, only to give you a reason why, which is the topic of the break we're about to give up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55768	Dear Vice President Radin. I asked for a break about the current events in sports, so I also suggested that since I don't need a break alone, I can do it right now if you agree, if you agree... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55769	I agree. There are no others. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. And there's more, well, here you go, Mr. Shucker, what's the topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55770	... The current political situation is looking for a break. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55771	Are you looking for a break or are you ready for a speech? You're ready, okay. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55772	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs, as Mr Mamic is not very good at trial, then Šuker, the same last-namer, Mamic, and other political sponsors made an effort to organise the HNS election assembly as quickly as possible so as not to better organise the opposition gathered around Darija Simic. HDZ was supposed to have two candidates, one of those two candidates, except for Mr. Suker, was supposed to be their representative, Kustic, so that the football cow of the musar would not flee the yard. Unfortunately, it also shows that Mr. Mamic has a strong influence on certain political parties, although not organised birthdays remain. Some people say football is a mirror of society, and then when you see what the HNS is loaded with, with how many hundreds of affairs and corruption, then you can see how society has created political parties so far. They claim that they have changed, that everything is done by the legion of artis, that they are working on a better country, that they will try to prevent tens of thousands of people leaving Croatia in the best years. Then take a look at football and everything becomes crystal clear to you, even if it isn't until that moment. Because they wanted me to agree or not, football is a mirror of society because football is under a much bigger public increase unfortunately than the economy. Football and football affairs clearly outline the affairs in Agrokor and all other affairs. Unfortunately, political parties do not realise that it is contrary to the democratic order and tradition to interfere in absolutely everything. Then you get the impression that you're in communist Yugoslavia and apparently some with mentality didn't even come out of it because they were supposed to control everything. Unfortunately, Davor Shuker is the choice of politicians, Davor Shuker was as much as I know one of the party members, represented them in the Zagreb Assembly, reportedly 11 out of 17, some say 14 out of 17 of those who are in the HNS and make decisions are members of one party. I'm just interested in how long? Finally, when the elections in Dalmatia come, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and local politicians will say they have absolutely nothing to do with all that is happening in the HNS. Well, don't let them have the opportunity to tell you because that's not true. And don't give them the chance to forget it because Davor Shucker and the others are their candidates. MOST of Independent Lists and I are in favour, we will advocate that the economy, culture, sport is depolitized. We feel that we are appealing to both sports and political elites to let go of sports, to leave it to sports workers, to athletes. Except for those involved in crime, they have heavy charges. Remember, among others, that you are a role model or should be a role model for children and young people and that sport is due to a healthy competition, a healthy debt and a healthy body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55773	Thank you very much, Mr. Petrov. Interesting subject. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't want to be anyone's lawyer from this pay phone, and I don't want to say it like that. But I want to talk like someone who's been in sports his whole life. About the sport where we here in the Parliament with the laws regulate how this sport will take place, doesn't regulate any alliances. We are here to pass laws and to determine the rules of the game from what it should look like institutionally, who it represents, how something is financed, how it is taxed and everything else, that's what we need to do here. But we also forget, I'm pulling back again, I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, the FIFA provision, and look at what now threatens Peru's team, the exclusion from the world championship in Russia because of political interference in the work of the national alliance. So I'm just putting myself on one side and I don't think politics is smart, just because we have to make laws based on what someone has to do. But I'd talk about sports here in a much nicer way and a much different way. Sports make up thousands of people who give their free time, their money to make it possible for children to play sports. And all those who were latets, I would ask them a question, did they ever come to the football field on Saturday morning, put three or four other people's kids in front of the gym and put their car in front of a sports gym, and these kids were driving to some sort of game in the rain, in the snow, in the fog, and were those who were talking about sports aware of the responsibility of that? They're not because it's sports and it's the beauty of sports. And when we talk about sports, then we need to talk about it that way. If we're going to do other things, then no one's stopping us from making an amendment to the Sports Act. I remember here about two years ago a group of parliamentary MPs had solemnly proposed amendments to the Law on Sports, this Sport Act was amended, however unfortunately some events etc. They remained the same, so simply they were protagonists of something. But we here must not be protagonists of anyone and nothing but simply protagonists of a system that will benefit first of all our children. Whether the question arises is that the many objects made by the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government are sports halls whether they are available to our children for sports. So you look at how much these sports halls are charged with these basketball handball, judo clubs, volleyball clubs in such a way and then you have a situation that the local self-government unit gives money to function the club, and then takes 30 or 60% of the money back through the use of the hall. That's what all the mayors and mayors know. So it's a sport and we need to talk about it. When we settle these things, then things will simply disappear in themselves because the law you determine how something works will solve all the problems. But if we in this House are not prepared to follow the rules by which we have determined how we will play the game then how we will serve others as an example of how we should play the game. Because look, when you're watching a football game, basketball or handball game, and if the judge doesn't sanction some kind of offense in principle, that game just doesn't end right. Therefore, if we want a good Croatian sport, then we need to know where the Olympic Committee belongs, where it belongs to the national alliances and where it belongs to the State Sport Office. I'm telling you, I'm talking to you as a man who's been alive in sports and as an active athlete and someone who's been at the head of a club for years, and I've also been at the head of a national alliance. The only way we can help sports is to institutionally edit it. This is to be classified because of the daily policy on one side or the other simply for sport, and also for politics and for this House of Commons is devastating. However, yesterday has shown that many are not ready to play the game according to the rules they brought themselves, and this Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament did not bring HDZ and most of them brought it to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u55775	Thank you. But the topic is worth discussing, it's worth it. We don't have any replicas, we can't even have one here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61457	Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. We're going back to work. Today we're going to have seven points of the agenda. The proposal was agreed on how well I was informed between clubs to conduct a united debate in the first five points. So, these are the following points: - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "Resolute Supoort" in Afghanistan - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Operation to support the peace "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta" - Proposal for a decision to participate members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operations of the United Nations - Proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the duties of NATO command structure, NATO structure of forces and other national (Multinational) commands to operations and other activities abroad under NATO leadership so that we will do so first and then in the afternoon, in accordance with the other two points. This is what we came up with at the end of the debate after the break, so let's now move on to our agenda as I announced, we've brought together five points, there's going to be a united debate, I'm going to list now what dots. This is a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace "Resolution Support" in Afghanistan, a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosovo, a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta", a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN peacekeeping operations, a proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to the duties of the Republic of NATO in the command structure, NATO structure of forces and other national (Multinational) commands to operations and other activities abroad under NATO leadership. Any acts shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 54. Defence Act and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is respected Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61459	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. Before you, the proposal for a decision to extend the mandate of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in various missions in which the Croatian military, i.e., armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have participated for a number of years in some and 15 years. And it is missions, therefore, which we propose to continue to be members of the armed forces of the Republic in 2018, for the proposal of this decision there is a prior consent of the President of the Republic and, of course, the resources provided in the state budget in 2018 for each of these missions. I'm going to go ahead and say a few words about each of those missions. Ugl. The proposal is for the numerical size of members of the armed forces to remain within those frameworks as it has been so far, but there are changes in some, as regards the numerical size of members of the armed forces. When it comes to the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation... Ensure continued visibility and engagement of the Republic of Croatia as part of the Peace Support Alliance's effort, which is shown in line with the conclusions in order to meet NATO at the Warsaw summit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the mission... There are currently 7 Croatian contingents of 98 members of the armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, the Republic of Croatia continues its engagement in advisory teams, security forces for advisory teams and camps, and in command headquarters. In accordance with the requirements of the alliances towards Member States, to increase contributions to critical skills, an increase has been requested in the section relating to aviation advisers, mechanics. Although the Afghan army has begun the process of crossing Western-origin helicopters, during 2018 there is a need for mentors and mechanics on Russian-type helicopters. Therefore, it is proposed in the support mission... in Afghanistan, in 2018, to be directed up to 110 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of rotation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A mission in Kosovo in which the Republic of Kosovo strongly supports NATO's efforts to maintain security in Kosovo and continues to participate in NATO's Kafor operation. The continued involvement of the Kafor armed forces ensures the continuity of the RS contribution, building a stable and secure environment in Kosovo. It's a NATO operation that's being conducted in our neighborhood, and therefore our engagement is of particular interest to us. Currently, 25 Croatian contingents, consisting of 33 members of the armed forces and 2 transport helicopters, are deployed in this operation. The Croatian contingent focuses on carrying out tasks of air transport, working at NATO headquarters, Kafor operations, NATO's early warning system, and working on advisory teams at the level of the Kosovo Security Force ministry. This Decision proposes to refer Kafort to Kosor in 2018 to 40 members with 2 Croatian Air Force helicopters with the possibility of rotation. So the same numerical size as before. Athelanta, taking into account the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, the Croatian Presidency of the EU 2020 as well as the current participation in Operation Athelant, and fully respecting the strategic, foreign policy objectives, the EU in the fight against piratery against the horns of Africa and the waters of the Indian Ocean, is proposed to continue to support the EU's efforts and engagement in Operation Atelant, and to maintain its number size by participation of up to 25 members of the armed forces in 2018. a reference of up to 10 members of the armed forces. Therefore, the same proposal as for 2017, i.e. the same numerical size. When it comes to Lebanon, although I said yesterday at the Defence Committee's meeting that the Proposer would make an amendment to withdraw this decision, the motioner will not, however, make an amendment because of the responsibility and credibility of the Republic of Croatia as members of the UN. In fact, there was a deterioration in the security situation, and you probably followed it, and that's why you were thinking about giving up the mission in Lebanon, but as I said, the government is proposing that a decision be made on the possible participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Lebanon mission. That doesn't mean our soldiers will end up there. It will be followed, therefore, by a security situation and accordingly by a decision. The safety of Croatian soldiers must be in place. As it has always been. As regards NATO's command structures, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision in September 2015 on the deployment of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia on NATO's command structure, NATO structure of forces and other national commands in operations and other activities abroad under the leadership of NATO for 2016 and 2017, which allows for a maximum of 80 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia at the same time. The Republic of Croatia has accepted the obligation to participate in the work of NATO joint bodies, first of all in command and headquarters. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia referred to such positions and duties in NATO's command structure, NATO's strength structure and other national commands may be directed to NATO operations as a strengthening of other headquarters and commanders due to the crisis situation and other activities. The following is proposed that members who are on those duties in 2018 and 2019 may, where appropriate, be referred to operations and other activities abroad under the direction of NATO to tasks under their duties. It shall be proposed to maintain a numerical size of up to 80 members who may be referred simultaneously to the area of operation or to any other activity in accordance with the plan of the competent commander. So the same numerical size as it was in the previous decision. As I have said, the financial resources for the implementation of all these decisions are secured in the State budget for 2018 at the division of the Ministry of Defence and what is also important and should be stressed that there is also a prior agreement of the President of the Republic on the referral of members of the Armed Forces to those missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61460	The first one's a respected colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61461	Honorable representative of the Department of Defense. I am personally interested in how Croatia and NATO exactly support drug production because we see that production has increased since the NATO mission was there from 10,000 hectares to 200,000 hectares, so the area where opium is produced has doubled. I'm also interested in the same statistical figures in opium production. In Afghanistan, over 400,000 people are currently working, which is more than they do in security forces, and according to the opium harvest, it is also recordable and is 4800 tonnes last year. I'm curious to see how you've been able to achieve this easily, there's also a million addicts on opium and heroin in Afghanistan. The number of refugees, this is the same detail that went to Germany in 2000, from Afghanistan when the Taliban was in power, only 5,000 people came to Germany last year, 17,000 refugees from Afghanistan, and I'm asking you to tell me how you managed to make all of them, so the number of refugees increase 15 times, the production of drugs 20 times, the number of addicts 100 times, here teach us, explain to us where your secret is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61462	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61463	I can't, and I don't want to answer your line because it has absolutely nothing to do with the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61464	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61465	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. My replica is really going in a direction that is a little bit wider than this topic we're talking about, but I think it's particularly important. That's the question I asked the minister when he was here and the answer was also given in principle. You, if you can, should give some kind of an answer. But what should still trigger the initiative in that direction. Namely, as we can see, the cooperation of armed members on various missions has come here to the Parliament, and we are likely to vote this cooperation. However, what I find unusually important today is the development of the Croatian economy, we have economic growth and there are opportunities for Croatia to join NATO. We, through the Ministry of Economy, who is the holder of all projects, should, by definition, co-operate with the Ministry of Defence, with the Ministry of European and Foreign Affairs, with a permanent representation or mission of the Republic of Croatia to NATO, in fact, in the National Security Council Office and the HGK. Do you have any idea what kind of cooperation it is and how many Croatian businessmen are involved in the acquisition of equipment today? It's not just military equipment, it's different competitions that NATO is calling, how many economic opportunities are there and how much could the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with other ministries contribute to making the Croatian economy more serious to those markets? These are when we talk about the NATO alliance, these are huge potentials and big money is at stake. Can you explain a little bit about the procedure and why, say, the Ministry of Defence does not go into some kind of active propaganda action to bring this even closer to Croatian entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61466	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61467	Thank you very much for asking. Dear colleague Sagar. The defence ministry has certainly been involved in efforts to raise the Croatian defence industry to an even higher level. I am pleased to say that just a month ago and a little bit more days ago, the first time Croatian contingent went to Afghanistan was fully equipped with products of the Croatian defence industry and when it comes to uniforms, wear them, but also when it comes to personal weapons. And the fact is that in the last ten years, the Croatian defence industry has developed quite well. Of course the highest part is, we have to be honest and admit it's the result of their efforts. So, it is not free to say it, however, was one systematic work of the entire system, or society. But by joining NATO, the alliance opens up, of course, much bigger and wider perspectives than it was for the Croatian defence industry earlier. And the fact is that in the past few years, the Croatian defence industry has achieved very significant export results and that Croatian defence industry products are quality and all other world-wide prices, we can really be proud of that. And of course our goal in the ministry is absolutely full of support for the Croatian defence industry and cooperation, of course, with other stakeholders in this whole process from the Ministry of Economy, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and here is a recent conference, The first conference on the Croatian defence industry. [[Intruder President: Thank you, Mr. Ivić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61468	Now it's my dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61469	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, we see the Croatian Army is in numerous NATO alliance missions and other peacekeeping missions. And as a very important aspect and the most important aspect is a soldier equipped materially-technically and financially secured. And the fact is, we see that we have the lawsuits and convictions of Croatian soldiers because of their rights that they do not exercise. I say that for a reason since I was a 17-year-old professional soldier I know this system and I know what it means to be a soldier, and the verdict that has now come to light and the damage that the sea causes in the future does not speak very motivatedly of the Croatian soldier. I'm sorry that many people come out of the system of quality, young man. I expect us to have fun with the Croatian soldier, not to compete that we give as many soldiers as we do on foreign missions without exercising our rights, and I expect, as is the case for the equipment of the material-technical Croatian military as in the case of aircraft. If it is necessary for the Croatian Army, we are calling for NATO which is why NATO did not tell the Croatian state it gives great pain to missions. We've got quality soldiers. Why did he not say here we will help the Croatian Army get its squadron, not on the burden of the budget. So it's just this picture that shows good cooperation with the Americans. The only thing we send our sons into surgery, and in return we get nothing but a nice picture of ourselves, that we have good cooperation with the Americans, just how good it is. But what's the result that interests me? I believe you will answer this, not as Mr. Pernar, that you will not answer, but that you will answer the results of this cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61470	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bully, and it's not exactly like you said. The fact is that the material status of Croatian soldiers is unsatisfactory and that there have been thousands of lawsuits over the abolition of various rights held by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why in the procedure, the proposal is to amend the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces through which most of these rights will return again and hopefully reduce the number of Croatian soldiers' actions towards the Ministry of Defence, i.e. towards the Croatian State. When it comes to relations with the United States, the United States is a strategic partner of the Republic of Croatia and the fact is that in the last ten years since and before, Croatia's NATO member has been a number of donations by the United States. I'll just remind you of the squadron, right, Warrior. It's a donation, so it's the United States. Such donations have a great deal and, of course, our goal and relations with the United States as head of NATO's alliance is to continue to develop in the mutual interest, primarily taking account of the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61471	Okay. Now we're going to the boards. counterpart Igor Dragovan, chairman of the Defence Committee, asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61472	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Defence Committee discussed all the proposals for decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peace support operations and supported all decisions unanimously. What I wanted to point out was this, and that's also the secretary of state in his opening statement. As far as the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping support operations regarding Lebanon is concerned, this was not the subject of a debate on the Defence Committee and the only decision you received is the report concerning the Western Sahara and India and Pakistan. Because because of the announcement we had, we didn't even discuss it on the board. Part of the board didn't take a stand on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61473	Now we're moving on to the debate. The first person to speak was the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists and the esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61474	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Croatian soldiers, according to the proposals of the decisions we are now discussing and which are before the Assembly, should be sent to six operations and missions on three different continents within different international organisations by increasing the presence of our armed forces in two of these six operations. It is operations under NATO's patronage in Afghanistan and Kosovo, three UN operations in India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara and Lebanon, as well as one mission under the EU's Atalanta Patronate in Somalia. The Croatian Armed Forces have been participating in Afghanistan for many years since 2003, currently 96 of our members are there. The contingent is now projected to increase to 110 soldiers. But other countries, as explained by this decision, are also increasing their military presence in the crisis area. It is the continuation of Operation "Resolution Support" in line with the NATO Alliance's conclusions in Warsaw. Kosovo has been the second NATO-led operation to support peace in Kosovo since 2016, a contingent of Croatian Armed Forces up to 40 members with two Croatian Air Force helicopters and an anti-aircraft defence is being referred to next year. When it comes to an operation in Somalia, it stems from our EU membership and from Croatia's armed forces since 2009. The main objectives of this operation are the protection of vessels carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia and ships providing logistical support to the forces of the African Union, the protection of vessels passing through the area of operations and, in particular, the deterrence of the protection and control of criminal activities, piracy and armed robbery from the territory of Somalia. When it comes to UN peace support operations, there is particular emphasis on the operation in Lebanon, which should include up to 70 members of our armed forces, an engineering unit where Croatia has participated symbolically with several members of the armed forces, and in practice only one member. We used to have a more significant military presence in the Golan area as part of the UN mission's pension, but we retired when there was a likely danger and war and suffering of our troops. And therefore, of course, the issue of the re-participation of the Republic of Croatia in this area is important. In the Western Sahara, it is predicted that up to eight members of the armed forces, in India and Pakistan, will be directed to ten members. Of course, some important questions are also raised within these decisions that should be answered by the promoter to the Croatian Parliament. The first question is of course the fact that the Republic of Croatia participates today in a number of different operations. We recently discussed and decided on the deployment of our armed forces and in a number of members of the Eastern European state in Poland, Latvia. The question is therefore raised in view of the scale of military operations or peacekeeping missions in which we send our armed forces, whether Croatia should participate in all these missions, even at a symbolic level with several members. The fact is that although we have not received comparative data that today the presence of the Croatian Armed Forces and the one intended to be carried out in 2018 is larger than it was in earlier years, it seems to me much greater than it was, for example, at the end of the last decade, and it is necessary to see in some way why it is so important that the Republic of Croatia participates in almost all the operations that are now current by the UN, the EU and NATO alliances. Of course, the question I've heard has also been raised on the Defence Committee is the total cost of all these military missions since it's not shown in the decisions we've made. Third, an extremely important question I would also say the most important question in making these decisions, the question of increasing the risk for our soldiers, and I think it would be good to get more accurate information here at which level this risk is greater, especially because of the greater presence of our armed forces in Lebanon. It should not be stressed that it is an extremely critical zone which has actually been for decades of powder barrels and that any reference to a number of members of the armed forces to that area is certainly a significant security risk. And in that sense, it would be important to know what the assessment and the Ministry of Defence is and in that sense. When we consider that recently in this House we have made decisions to refer our troops to Poland and Lithuania as part of NATO alliances, our mission in NATO military missions is obviously very important, divided by a number of soldiers, so the question to which we would get an answer at the Most Representatives' Club is that our role is honored and appreciated when it comes, for example, to the acquisition of arms from the states of that alliance, especially the United States? In fact, there's certainly something that we can call cost-benefit analysis. The costs are, of course, the financial costs the Republic of Croatia has in sending these armed forces to military missions. Thank God, we haven't had those most difficult costs yet, and that would be the cost of human life. They're for now, thank God at the level of financial costs. But therefore, there are also the benefits that certainly exist, so donations of military equipment, and other potentially individual types of weapons. It would be interesting, therefore, to hear how and when it is decided to refer our armed forces to a foreign military mission whether it is the factor that plays an important role and whether the benefits side is more important and useful, and in this way we decide more often on the participation of our military forces in certain military missions and operations especially when it comes to the NATO alliance. To this we would like to get more content answers since, of course, by decision-making procedure as provided for by the Constitution, the Parliament is an inescapable link in that chain with the Government's proposal and the previous consent of the President of the Republic as Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. Of course, the members of the Defence Committee as the competent parent body are certainly informed about this. But surely, it would be good if the Croatian public who follows this debate could also observe our participation in peace operations and missions as a whole. It has an important foreign policy dimension, it certainly stems from our role as members of the UN, partly our membership and membership of the EU, but especially NATO operations have a very important role, I would say a large number of soldiers participating in these military operations. And we're interested in the club, of course, what kind of benefit is that side of all the operations we're involved in. Of course, the MOST Representatives Club will support the above decisions on sending the Croatian Armed Forces to a foreign mission, but we expect these answers especially when it comes to the security risk involved and which is certainly increased by making these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61475	We've got two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of the Squibbles.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61476	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Podolnjak, you've had one very, let's say a rational speech. You mentioned certain criticisms. I would like to read an article that recently came out and said the Taliban has taken responsibility for the bomb attack on a NATO convoy near Kandahar in southern Afghanistan, the coalition spokesman said. You have asked the question of cost-censorship analysis, economic financial costs, but I think that the costs of human lives are invaluable costs and that in such missions in which Croatia sends its soldiers, especially young people should think very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61477	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61478	Thank you. Dear fellow Skibola, any military operation, a mission with the best intentions and the character of a peaceful mission may unfortunately have human casualties. No one can predict even ordinary accidents that occur, unfortunately in a military mission a helicopter falls and unfortunately there are human casualties among the members of the armed forces. And the fact is, unfortunately, they happen. The fact is that they exist and are always a certain risk. But the fact is that, by joining certain international organisations, the Republic of Croatia has also assumed certain obligations, with the rights we have also assumed obligations as well as other Member States. We try to fulfill these duties as well as other states. We are aware that because of the increased security risk, there are events and situations which unfortunately cause human victims and innocents and civilians, and that is the fact. But no one in advance enters such missions, peaceful missions, protection of peace that certainly bring much more good to people in the area where these military missions are being directed. And the fact is that I am convinced, I believe, and a vast majority of the MPs in this assembly that the operations in Afghanistan have brought much more good to the inhabitants of that area, unfortunately with certain casualties happening. But I hope that the Croatian Armed Forces as before will have no human casualties that can never, safely be excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61479	Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61480	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Podolnjak, I have concluded from your debate and, in fact, it is a key question of how all the Republic of Croatia can benefit or benefit from sending these, sending our soldiers on missions like this. Of course, the Ministry of Defence will always stress this and say that it is strengthening the operational composition or acquiring such experiences of our operational forces that will improve our army's readiness. However, what we must stress is certainly the economic situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located, because even when filling these units that go into these peacekeeping missions, you have no problem actually. You know why? Because these soldiers also regularly receive a daily daily daily allowance of about 100 U.S. dollars a day, and then that's for sure... The situation in which the Croatian economy is located for many, in fact, the standard of Croatian citizens, for many soldiers, is a great source of income despite this danger they are exposed to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2016, the Ministry of Defence allocated around 80 million kuna in this current year, according to 110 million, the next year plans to allocate 180 million kuna. So this is the cost we know, it costs so much of these pensions, and what we certainly need to take care of, and I have asked the Secretary of State and the Minister of State to really include that the Croatian economy, apart from these benefits that the Croatian soldier has in terms of education and in terms of progress, had the Croatian economy to be as active as possible, because our diplomacy, we don't actually have in the Republic of Croatia at this moment exactly how much our diplomacy helps the Croatian economy. The diplomacy is saying nice work, you go there, but how much does every diplomat contribute to the growth of Croatian economies, so then our membership in NATO alliance or permanent representation or mission to NATO alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61481	Comrade Dolnjak, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61482	Thank you. Dear colleague, the fact is that it is inevitable, when we talk about both this military and foreign political dimension of the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in military operations and missions around the world, that we are inescapably thinking about this economic component as well. Recently there was a report in the Croatian Parliament from the European Council of Prime Ministers where it was said that Croatia would join and strengthen defence co-operation within the EU as one of the countries involved. And this is extremely important because one important goal and enhanced defence cooperation is strengthening the military industry and equating weapons and standardisation of weapons within the EU. So this economic dimension should also be seen here because the Croatian military industry should benefit significantly from the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this enhanced military co-operation and within the EU. I hope, too, that in some future report, we will see that this dimension has been significantly strengthened and that this economic quality in terms of strengthening exports of the Croatian military industry, especially within the EU, will be stronger thanks to the participation of the Republic of Croatia and military missions, as well as in enhanced military cooperation within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61483	Thank you. We're continuing the debate now. And next up, it's the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club and "respected colleague" Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61485	The Honorable Chairman. I speak here not only on my own behalf, not only in the name of my party, the voters I represent, but in the name of common sense and in fact of all the citizens of the world. The secret, or secret, is the truth that the production of heroin, or opium in Afghanistan, increased from 8,000 hectares in 2001 to 200,000 hectares last year. So since NATO invaded Afghanistan, opium maca production has grown 25 times. The logical question that's being asked is what security is like there. Well, security is such that 400,000 people are involved in the production of drugs in Afghanistan and that it represents more than security forces, the forces that NATO is training. It is obvious that NATO, or these security forces, accept their silently, in fact, support and protect the production of the opium macaque. I said one thought, and that's that opium macaque production has grown 25 times. About as much as the number of heroin addicts in America has increased. In 2001, or before the invasion of Afghanistan in America, there were 189,000 addicts. In 2016, there were 4.5 million heroin addicts in America last year. That's 24-fold growth. So you connect opium production 25 times in America growth 24 times the number of heroin addicts. In Afghanistan, the situation is particularly worrying, it's there right now, these are the shocking submissions of 3 million heroin addicts. Those addicts were not there until America, i.e. Croatia and other NATO countries involved their dirty fingers. I'm going to say another thought, the war that NATO is waging in Afghanistan so far has killed 111,000 Afghans and carried away the lives of 3400 NATO soldiers. As for the security situation as well, I'll give you one detail, a refugee from Afghanistan, Germany in 2000, when the Taliban was at the height of power there were only 5,000. Last year, there were 127 thousand of them. That's a 25-fold increase. Notice that production of maca under NATO's patronate is growing 25 times and that the number of addicts and refugees is growing 25 times. There are other statistics, dead in America in 2000, there were 1779 heroin overdoses. Last year, there were 10,000 574, 6 times more heroin overdoses in America. This growth in death is related to the growth of macaque production. I'll tell you one more detail, do you know how long it's been in Europe and Russia since America invaded Afghanistan, how many people died from heroin overdose? What do you think, ladies and gentlemen? A million people. Half of all deaths since overdose occurred in Russia. Why is that a problem? The problem is because of the heroin epidemic, there has been an increase in HIV and there is currently over 100,000 new cases of HIV in Russia. Half of those infected with HIV were earned through heroin fixation or drug use. Unfortunately, if this Croatian policy continues, a policy that actually supports ladies and gentlemen, a crime that protects drug manufacturers, which allows this drug to go around the world, to take human lives, we will witness even greater tragedies. But one thought is the next. And it's that as long as someone close to you, your child, your brother, your sister, your cousin, your friend doesn't be the misery of those who remain part of this statistics dreary, you'll be saying that Pernar is a clown, a fool and that he talks nonsense. There is no end to your service and half-dominated American politics. You're willing to do everything they ask of you even though in the case of this war, a crazy man in Afghanistan and you see for yourself that Afghans don't live better than America is there, so just try to imagine a country with 3 million addicts and what life is like for them and their families. You can see that by the number of refugees from Afghanistan has grown 25 times since America was there. But unfortunately, all these numbers mean nothing to you. As far as terrorist attacks are concerned, they've never been in Afghanistan. Here's if that's one detail you're worried about. So since the US arrival in Afghanistan, terrorism, drug and crime production has increased 25 times, the number of addicts is 3 million, the number of refugees has increased 25, etc. I ask you, what are the positive influences of NATO's military mission on the life of an average Afghan, or to transfer the board to the other side or to the lives of an average American, Russian, Croat, etc. This war that is waged is not a war against terrorism, this is a war whose goal is to protect and continue opium production, this is a war where profit is the only purpose. The only ones who make money from this war are the following, apparently those who produce and trade drugs, apparently those who produce and trade weapons and, apparently, those who support this policy. Unfortunately, in the Croatian Parliament, we from the Living Wall are de facto the only political party that condemns this policy, this policy that leads to the humiliation and destruction of people. You support NATO's military mission not because you saw the data so now you see what its positive results are, no, you know that all its results are negative, you only support it because you decided to serve, so on. Imam Homeini called America “the Great Devil. ” You decided to serve evil, evil in the form of Uncle Sam or say America, Uncle Sam who wants you and your souls, he says that password "I want you" and he gets you on his side. What I'm interested in is, what did you personally get to support this policy that leads to the collapse of not only Afghans but also citizens around the world? Unfortunately, this is probably funny or unserious to you, and that's because you haven't watched people fix themselves, you haven't looked at overdosed people with your eyes, etc. You laugh at the expense of me being a nurse and you being funny ladies and gentlemen, but as a nurse, I've had a chance to see heroin addicts, I've had a chance to see people who come for replacement therapy or for heptanone. I've had a chance to see what their lives look like and I don't want that kind of life for anybody's child. But, ladies and gentlemen, if this mission continues, it is evident that drug production will continue, it is evident that crime, war crimes, the growth of terrorism and, in the end, a large number of deaths across America, Europe and Asia will continue. The war in Afghanistan has brought nothing but ruin, nothing good for good people, nothing good for ordinary people. For those who don't rub their hands when they kill. But in this world, there are people who, as one song says, American dream, who rub people's hands while they're killing, so such people exist among us, they are in power in America, unfortunately, I see that in most of them they are in power and in my own country of Croatia. I see that the profit and interest of America is ahead of the interest of common sense, in general, and that in that selfishness, blindness, deafness, and as you would say, one self-deception, you assure yourself that you are doing good even though it is obvious by the results that you are doing evil. I'll do it again. From the American, or NATO invasion in which Croatia participates, the growth of 25 times the area on which opium, from 8,000 to 200,000 hectares, is growing in America as heroin addicts from 189,000 2001 to 4.5 million 2016. Dear ladies and gentlemen, a refugee only in Germany has increased their numbers from 5,000 in 2000 to 127000 last year. Growth is also 25 times. Ladies and gentlemen, what further do you want from me? What would you be looking for? I remember a Bible comparison, it was about an arrogant rich man and poor Lazarus. By the time Lazarus died in heaven, an arrogant rich man ended up in hell. And then he came to me to say so in the lap of Abraham after he died. He's going to heaven. But the rich man, when he saw how he ended up, he said, "God, please, i.e. Father Abraham, please warn my brothers downstairs who live in the earth as I do, lest they end up in hell, as I have finished. And he said unto him, then Abraham said unto him, They have Moses and the prophets, and they shall read the holy letters, and it shall be made clear unto them. And he said he trusted Moses and the prophets. And then Abraham told an arrogant rich man, if they did not trust Moses and the prophets, they would not believe even if any of the dead rose up. In the same way, you claim if we knew the truth, we would side with it. But I told you the truth, you heard it and saw it. However, like the proud family of rich people compared to poor Lazarus, you and your relatives refuse to accept this obvious truth. They refuse to stand by it and do not want to stop supporting this criminal policy that has led only to the loss of human lives, human suffering, the growth of the number of refugees, and ultimately, the human tragedies that have been from Afghanistan all of a sudden, not only that the horror is multiple in Afghanistan, but that you have brought it to the whole world. This is your policy of ladies and gentlemen from HDZ, the SDP of Most, the HNS and all other parties, because you accepted to be puppet parties, to be in service of a foreign occupation, including our country, except that the difference between NATO and the mission in Afghanistan, which is that you occupy NATO with weapons and support a government that has no legitimacy, and our country, is occupied by credit, financial instruments, in a way that we are made to addicts on a foreign source of money, because in 1994 you converted the CNB into a currency exchange. Since the hand that gives, always above the hand that receives, and that we are the hand that receives, and the foreign lenders are the hand that gives, it is clear that in our country the main word has foreign creditors and that the will of our citizens is irrelevant. Well, since that's how it is in this case sending soldiers into this dump, not just a failed mission, it's a successful mission, but for who? A successful mission is for those involved in the sale and manufacture of drugs, who trade with another. This is a NATO mission successful for those who produce weapons and trade weapons and ultimately, those who have been paid to continue this entire circus forever. So it's not 16 years old enough to say your former party president and detainee, let's move on. How many more, 16 more, 30, 100 years of God knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61486	We have several replicas, the first Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pernar, I wouldn't really go into the metrics of your debate, I just wanted to ask you, you've brought out a lot of data in your debate, so I'm just curious about the source of the data. If you could at least specify a few sources, for the data of these statistics, the number of addicts, the number of deaths from, here and... Yeah, especially Afghanistan and that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I repeat, I'm not going into the scale of your debate, but I think these figures are important, not small numbers, you're using them to argue your position. Just here, for Luke's gospel, I think we all know more or less about your story, but for these other information you've provided, I would really like to, if you could give me at least a few sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61488	Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61489	Dear counterpart Glavasevic, the figure, on the increase in the number of refugees from Afghanistan in Germany, is from the German federal refugee office, the figure was also presented during a parliamentary debate in Bundestaga because both representatives see the politics, that NATO military mission, has not solved the refugee crisis, but has strengthened it 25 times. As for the increase in the number of hectares under opium, these are UN data as well as 3 million addicts. That number of three million addicts, only three years ago, was a million. So she jumped times three in a very short time. 111,000 dead Afghans, these are data, also an assessment of the UN and 3400 dead NATO soldiers, they are all listed and their names can also be seen from the country where they come from. As far as the number of heroin addicts in America is concerned, it's a data that has a federal, i.e. The CVC is called the Center for Disease Control, i.e., it belongs to the so-called “Current Control”. Medical statistics. As far as the number of HIVes in Russia is concerned, they are official data from the Russian government, and as far as the number of millions of deaths in Russia and Europe in the last 16 years of heroin, it is a simple figure. There are simply deaths in all these countries. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the number also means overdoses in America from heroin. This statistic is not controversial, this statistics is shocking. But what hurts is that you will nevertheless close your eyes to that and support the sending of our soldiers to that disastrous mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61490	Mr. Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61491	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. I'm glad you're up a little bit. First we heard a million Russians die a year from heroin overdose. Now we've heard that this million people have died of heroin, but not only in Russia but throughout Europe in the last 16 years. Good lapus. But here I would ask one question, no matter how hard I try not to raise this replica stick, I had to raise it. You are as a party and personally engaged in the legalisation of easy drugs, and here you used the discussion of the Croatian Peace Mission in Afghanistan and other countries to speak exclusively, almost exclusively of drugs. Well, little to me it's kind of not really us, there's this discrepancy actually in your attitudes of easy drugs would, heavy drugs here we've heard that you're very actually aware of that big problem. You didn't tell us what alternative? Is NATO's alternative to the pact and maybe Russia? Well, the Russians were Afghanistan in decades, too. You didn't mention a word in your Russian debate. And I have to comment that as usual you used a very, very difficult terminology. You used to say that if I wasn't wrong like this. Under the NATO Pact protectorate, opium plantations are planted in Afghanistan. Well, try your own terminology, 'cause I don't think you have any proof of it, and I've worked opium with Afghanistan before the Americans. Unfortunately, even after the Americans, and I would dare say when I talk about peace missions, we in Croatia in the Homeland War have been looking forward to our peace missions, to be saved from aggression. Today, when we all talk about peacekeeping missions in other countries, you have one completely different view with that of a country which is Russia here you defend in one way, and NATO pact whose member we are attacking in an inappropriate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61492	Mr. Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61493	Mr. Zekanovic, I did not say that millions of deaths per year in Russia, but that in the last 16 years in Europe, Russia died from heroin overdose, and 100 thousand figures represent the number of HIV patients in Russia, half of which is the cause of HIV taking heroin. You don't understand the difference between heroin and marijuana. Marijuana is not a drug, marijuana is a plant that didn't kill anyone, marijuana is a healing plant. It is a plant used to treat among others and multiple sclerosis and due to the treatment he unfortunately two years in prison got Juanito Luxetics from Rijeka which is a great shame, while all your criminals, colleagues from the parties who stole the whole state and who support this drug trade and production unfortunately they will never go to jail. And that's also one big shame. You asked what's the alternative? Well, alternative to war, alternative to killing, and this is one important thing. This isn't a peace mission, this is an occupation of Afghanistan. You can fool the public here, say you're there in the service of the people, and there's no evidence that NATO is involved in this drug business. However, the surfaces below are so large that it is impossible simply to do so without the cooperation of the Allied authorities. You have pictures, go online as the U.S. Army patrols opium fields, and you'll understand. You'll realize that they didn't come there to cut them down, but to protect them on the contrary. And in the same way as in the Vietnam War, in the coffins of dead American soldiers, drugs from Vietnam were transported to America on the same channels, unfortunately, they are still transported to America today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61494	Mr. Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You know that this mission in Afghanistan has the mandate of the United Nations. You know how decisions are made on the Security Council, you know that the Security Council made a unanimous decision on resolution 2189 on 14 December 2014 authorising this mission in Afghanistan. You know the Security Council is enough that only one of the permanent members is vetoing and such a resolution cannot pass. Therefore, I would ask you to tell me if all these charges you've brought against this mission have been brought forward and you are now, for example, against the Russian Federation which has given consent to have this mission approved. It was enough that the Russian ambassador to the Security Council said we disagreed and did not have UN authorization, that was enough. But he didn't do it. He raised his hand for this mission that you characterized as you characterized. My question is very specific and I ask a concrete answer. Are you accusing Russia of everything that you have accused this NATO mission of, since Russia has raised its hand on the Security Council for the approval of such a mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61496	Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61497	I'm looking from the perspective of international law, this mission is legal. However, being legal does that mean that participation in it is correct? Russia did not send its soldiers there, or participate in it. However, even if Russia hadn't raised its hand to her, America wouldn't have withdrawn from Afghanistan, America would have continued to sow death and opium there, which means that Russia's support for that UN resolution was just said in English... or ink on paper, pro form, de juro, and de facto Russia condemns the American policy that led to disaster and on the contrary Russia has been calling for years Americans telling, people look we were in Afghanistan, we tried to make something there, it's impossible mission, it's a failed mission. And then America instead of getting a message from the Russians, America says we're going there. And what the Russians say, the Russians say just go, go, here you go, you want another 50 years, so the Russians will tell you to go. And you think a soldier will send you there, they won't, because they know you're wasting time there or rather you're not wasting your time there, you're doing what you're doing there. NATO is what it came for, which is to ensure the production of drugs, and that is to continue the migration of people and the continuation of the war that has been going on for 16 years, and that is why it has been as I have said, an increase in the number of refugees that is exponential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61498	Mr. Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61499	Mr. Vice President. A esteemed colleague of Pernar's. To replicate you in principle a wasteful job, but it is simply impossible for some time to withstand your delusions, your carrying out falseness, the use of data targeted for what you need. Now here's the answer to my fellow Stier's question. You've once again shown whose side you're on, and who you work for. You're not exactly the way you like to represent yourself as the defender of everyone and everything. I can see that you understand drugs very well, I'm not going to talk to you about it at all, you're certainly much stronger than I am. I see you have as much information as you've been overdosed and during the Taliban, I don't know if you were in Afghanistan at the time, because where did you get that information, but that statement and performance are similar to the Taliban, that's the undisputed truth, that's what we've been able to convince countless times in this House. So, Mr. Pernar, when you talk about missions like this where our people are going with good faith to bring some countries here, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Somalia and other countries where they're being sent by the UN, you think a little bit about these soldiers, soldiers who go there with a desire to do something good. And they are convinced that the great majority of our people, all of us here in the Parliament, believe that when we send people into retirement missions to come to us to bring peace, so we send them there to do something good. Not everything is ideal, but we certainly do a lot of good things when we send our people on a mission to those areas. The war has been going on there for centuries and there's no illusion that we're going to do it all at once all right. There's one more thing I'd like to say when you're talking about the Gospels and everything, you're one of the biggest false budgets that's recently appeared on the Croatian political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61500	Thank you. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61501	I would like to say that I spoke to Croatian soldiers who were in Afghanistan and unlike you and those who support their sending there they do not believe in this mission. They tell me John NATO there what NATO claims will not do there, and all that it claims to fight against is actually all that gamma supports. And he told me honestly, Ivan, I'm only there for money. So we actually have people out there who are more in the form of mercenaries because they know it's not some kind of defense war, that they're not there because when I listen to you, you know who you remind me of, gentlemen. You remind me of those children of flowers in America, that peace, love, they're all happy, etc. That's the parole, that's the story you're selling people, but we all know that's not true, that's far from true. And I invite you, sir, ask those Croatian soldiers who are in Afghanistan to tell you themselves whether they believe in the success of NATO's mission and whether money is the exclusive motive for which they go. And of course, if you could normally live in our country that you've ruined, if you could make a normal living here, and not cut them off on salaries, and that's why they have to file lawsuits against the MORH, they'd probably never even apply for those missions. Their act of going there is bound by existential nature because you led them to the edge of existence because they simply don't know what other way to get the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61502	Mr. Scibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61503	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Pernar, I will not be so critical of your speech, on the contrary, I think it is good to speak in the Croatian Parliament on the other hand because not everything is positive in sending soldiers to NATO and certainly there are some facts that you have brought. In today’s times and before throughout history, wars are often fought only because of some interests, whether they are economic interests, whether they are interests of supremacy over other countries or some third interests. Today we are witnessing the geopolitical conflicts of America and Russia, and in these geopolitical conflicts, the question is how is Croatia being asked and whether it is a wise way to always and only side by side of America, although it can be harmful to our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61504	Thank you. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61505	Dear fellow Skibola, of course, it is unwise to stand on someone's side, even when that side leads obviously wrong politics. If Croatia had already decided to trade, or not to trade, but to subdue America, so it could have acted, it could have been said that we support your military efforts and wish you every happiness, they could have said so. But Croatia didn't have to personally participate in this war, Croatian soldiers didn't have to go there. So all of this, Mr. Scybola, is what I'm talking about, these numbers and statistics, they're inexorable and they're talking about the harm of a NATO military mission. They say it's a peace mission. So, ladies and gentlemen, who are you selling the fog to? What kind of peace mission? This is a military mission, this isn't like I said defence war, this is an occupation of another country, that... was a puppet of America like this current government and that government has no legitimacy and that's why there's a civil war, because the government in Kabul doesn't represent anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It represents the interests of you and those who push you to lead that policy, not the will of the Afghan people, because otherwise the civil war would have long been over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61506	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragovan will continue on behalf of the SDP on Aganistan and several other laws that go with it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Ivić, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the SDP club will support the decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in missions in Afghanistan, Kosovo, Somalia-Atalanta and the decision to send members of the Armed Forces to the NATO command structure and all that is going on. But with regard to decisions on the participation of members of the UN Armed Forces in UN peace operations, the SDP club will support a reference in the Western Sahara to eight members and to India and Pakistan up to ten members. And as for the UN peace support operation in Lebanon, allow me a few sentences. I will just point out what the proposing woman herself has written, and this is the following: "The security situation in Lebanon is affected by a number of factors with particular emphasis on the problem of disarming militant groups, the action of terrorist and extremist groups, the smuggling of weapons, and the worsening of the situation and violence in refugee camps, making it impossible for Lebanese authorities to exercise effective control over state territory. The situation in Lebanon is significantly affected by developments in neighbouring countries, especially developments in Syria. As the UNIFIL operation is taking place in a strategically very important area, which is one of the world’s dominant crisis areas in relation to the worsening security situation in Iraq and Syria. The establishment of a higher degree of presence of the Republic of Lebanon is an important contribution to the efforts of the international community." The sending of members of the Armed Forces to these missions, which in the Croatian Parliament annually, so to speak, giving permission is not a technical issue. It is anything but a technical issue, it is primarily a question of the credibility of the Republic of Croatia, its presence and participation with its partners and allies, but also the responsibilities of those who make that decision on the security of members. And we estimate that this increase, proposed by 5, was, in fact, one to 70 members in Lebanon in the past two months, an extremely exacerbated security situation, an unnecessary proposal for a decision. If I didn't, I'd like to add a few more sentences, and that's the next one. In his opening statement, the State Secretary himself said that we were on certain missions for years. Personally, I think the time has come to seriously sit down and propose the priorities that the Republic of Croatia has had in its participation in peacekeeping missions. I personally think that the issue of sending members of the Armed Forces to peacekeeping missions is, above all, a primary foreign-political issue rather than a military issue. And I will therefore initiate the thematic session of the Joint Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence of the Croatian Parliament if it will contribute, and with a desire to contribute to a serious approach to redefining the strategy and strategic objectives of sending members of the Armed Forces to peacekeeping missions worldwide. Because definitely over the course of time and somewhere over ten years in certain missions, certain priorities, certain goals of Croatian foreign policy have changed, and perhaps missions to which we will send our members of the Armed Forces tomorrow because of the external-political interests of the Republic of Croatia will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61509	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the replica of Mr. Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think this idea of a joint session of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Defence Committee is really worth it. And we see from the discussions of some other colleagues here that there is indeed a need for a wide discussion and contextualisation of the Croatian strategy for participation in peace missions, so I might suggest that here at your joint session, given the things we have also heard about redefining the EU's defence policy, that you may also call on the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61511	Thank you very much. No answer? Okay. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61512	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Dragovan, here's just a few words for your exposure. You said we should review our decisions, especially the ministry and the government's decisions to send our members of the Armed Forces to certain missions for their longevity because we've been in some over 10, 15 years. I think, in this explanation of these decisions, we see that this very longevity that we have in certain missions gives us an additional experience, but also one credibility as you mentioned that it is an external-political issue and not just a defensive one. As far as Lebanon is concerned, and here's specifically this peace support operation for the United Nations. We had the Defence Committee yesterday and the truth is here and the Secretary of State has been corrected and you will be held back about the operation itself and normally you have that right. But I think we need to take that one step again, step forward and the Secretary of State and the Ministry who were fair and said that although the situation has deteriorated, there are certain problems, although it is risky to ask us to support that mission. And normally we have to back them up, too, that they're going to look at the whole situation, that they're going to do their own analysis, and then they're going to evaluate whether they're going to send our armed forces there or not. But that step itself is that of the government, i.e. The ministry was ready to submit an amendment and withdraw our forces from here, i.e. do not send them at all prove that both the Ministry and the Government are on the minds of the first soldier and the security situation, and only then normally our engagement in both NATO and the UN and other alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61513	Thank you. Now yes, the answer. Here you go, Mr. Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61514	Dear colleague, I personally think that we have made the decision to remain in the same extent that we were on, none of our partners or anyone else would say a word of regret. I think we may have made a little too quick and too fast a decision to drastically increase members from one to 70 in a short time in the security-deprecated situation that is currently in Lebanon. Thus, without that decision, it could have passed. That's what I think. That's what I'm right about. And I see that there's this problem, and I think it's more correct and honest not to make a decision that they're going to make, and then they're going to look for a way for soldiers not to be instructed but to just stay on what we've been participating on that mission so far, and that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61515	Thank you very much. The replica, Mr. Pernar. Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar, Mr. Pernar, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61516	Dear counterpart Radin, I would like to ask a representative of the SDP who are his personal reasons why the SDP supports NATO's military mission in Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61517	There's no answer. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61518	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I must admit that I am sorry to hear that you will not support the peace mission in Lebanon, given that it is an extremely thorny space, one area which, I would say a potential crisis point and that Croatia as a full member of the UN and as a member of the NATO Pact, I would say is obliged to prevent possible unwanted events in that area. So it's a country that's near Golan High and Israel, and let's not forget Syria that's right next to, which has here say the latest data maybe and a million people have died in past events. It is also very important to know that recently the prime minister himself, so Lebanese resigned in a strange way, that he disappeared in Saudi Arabia. So in all that context, I'm sorry we're not taking responsibility. With another very important thing to emphasize here, Lebanon is a complex country, which has both Shita and Sunina but let's not forget that there are Christians, so there is one Christian, unfortunately today it is a minority, they were much more represented. Which we are, here I will say in front of the meaning of both the party HRAST and on my personal behalf, I think we should take a little care of that Christian community there, which unfortunately today is extremely endangered. So I'm sorry he won't support a mission in Lebanon that's the only one of these states that has one Christian community that we are, that I'd like to protect. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61519	Thank you very much. And the last replica, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Dragovan, you said everything and you said you wouldn't support this, I think, but in the last paragraph, regardless of this crisis hotline, which is dominantly written that we are asked to implement this contribution by sending up to 70 members of the Armed Forces of the Croatian Armed Forces of Engineering in conjunction with Italian partners and the Italian Republic as a bilateral partner. So the engineering skills are talking about something that isn't soldiers who will be a reconnaissance diversant unit or a pedestrian unit that will disarm militant groups or be directly threatened in the front line of any conflict that would happen. And that should be kept in mind that it's not exactly like that regardless of the difficult and crisis situation and the dominant crisis hotspot, but it's only about the engineering capabilities of the unit that would be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61521	Thank you, Mr. Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61522	Comrade Djakic, you know as well as I do and I suppose others that it is an area in which it is completely irrelevant whether you are a combat team or a non-combat unit. That every place the security risk is extremely high and you know it very well. So the argument that something unwarranted is not standing. Given the way war is done, the way the threat occurs, in that area, it really doesn't make any difference. I repeat once again, the argument I made on him is absolutely right. In other words, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the Proposer has thought about it and is thinking about it, as the State Secretary himself said in the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61523	Thank you very much. There's no more replicas. Now Mr. Djakic will speak in front of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here are the peace support missions we've had in the Republic of Croatia in the past Homeland War. We have before us a request for approval, a reference of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia during 2018 in 5 peacekeeping missions around the world. Participation in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions is an obligation of the Republic of Croatia as members of the NATO Alliance. Peace missions are an opportunity to gain important experiences in joint engagement within the NATO alliance. But perhaps even more valuable that the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in peace support operations are achieving their own international credibility as well as the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the NATO alliance. Croatian soldiers wherever they came have had very close and friendly relations with the local population, as Minister Krsticevic also stressed for a visit to Afghanistan. Croatian soldiers long ago became brand wherever they were and wherever they came. We are ahead of the year in which Croatian soldiers will participate in peace operations around the world. Croatia is able to send its soldiers to various crisis hotspots equipped with military equipment produced in Croatia. Croatian soldiers have been directed to Afghanistan for the first time since the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Resolution Support mission, equipped with Croatian rifles. So, except that peace missions are an opportunity, as already mentioned, to gain military experience and confirm international credibility, and political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia are also a huge incentive to the domestic defence industry, which has recently recorded very significant results through its 28 companies that are working in real military equipment and that still have a lot of cooperatives. The following 2018 provides for the strengthening of the presence of the Croatian military at global crisis centres. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia should participate in peacekeeping support operations in Kosovo and Afghanistan under the NATO Alliance, Somalia as part of the European Union, and in the United Nations' support operations in Lebanon, Western Sahara, India and Pakistan. The participation of the Armed Forces in peace support operations also provides for a significant increase in funding in the proposal for a State budget for 2018 compared to the previous year but also in relation to 2019 and in 2020, when at least according to the proposed projections, a reduction in activities in peacekeeping missions is expected. By sending members of the Armed Forces to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national, multinational commands in operations and other activities and abroad under NATO's leadership. As a member of the NATO Alliance, the Republic of Croatia has accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies, primarily in the commands and headquarters with these positions and duties in NATO's command structure, NATO's strength structure and other national and multinational commands. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may be directed to NATO-led operations as a strengthening of other headquarters and commanders due to the crisis situation and other activities abroad. The Republic of Croatia participates in the decision-making process for the participation of NATO forces in operations as well as other activities, and without the consent of the Republic of NATO, it cannot launch a specific operation or any other activity for which a national decision is previously required, or a consensus of all 29 members of the alliance. The decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national and multinational commands in the operation and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership is proposing to retain up to 80 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who can be simultaneously referred to the area of operation or to other activities in accordance with the plan of NATO's commander-in-chief who previously approved the North Atlantic Council. The participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace support operations of the United Nations, the peace support operations of the United Nations aim to contribute and create a long-term, stable, secure and more advanced environment, strengthen the rule of law, protect civilians, respect for human rights and security are fundamental preconditions for meeting this objective. The Republic of Croatia actively supported the global campaign of the United Nations to strengthen the contributions of the countries of the grantors and to strengthen the capacity and capacity of the United Nations peace support operations, and, at the summit on peace operations in 2015 in New York, demonstrated its intention to make available to the United Nations Engineering Units the United Nations, taking over the obligation to continue the organisation and to cover the cost of pre-route training of police officers with the aim of actively participating in the implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. Members of the Armed Forces are present in the support operations of the United Nations in Lebanon, and up to 70 members are to be deployed in 2018. Eight members should go to the Western Sahara, to India and Pakistan to up to 10 members. The participation of members of the Armed Forces in the EU's peacekeeping support operation NaFOR Somalia Atalanta and the EU's peace support operations since December 2008 with the aim of combating piracy, and the main objectives of the operation are the protection of vessels carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia and ships providing logistical support to the African Union forces. Next, the protection of vessels passing the areas of operations, the deterrence of the protection and control of criminal activities, piracy and armed robbery from the Somalia area, and the participation in the control of fishing activities outside the coast of Somalia. This operation in 2018 should be referred to up to 25 members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. The participation of members of the Armed Forces in the ‘Resolution Support’ mission in Afghanistan in the ISAF operation that preceded the mission, determined support from the Republic of Germany began in February 2003 by sending military police water from 50 members in cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany. The backbone of the Croatian mentoring teams for training the Afghan army, civil police and security forces were the backbone of the previous engagement of the Republic of Afghanistan. Currently in the field of operation is the seventh Croatian contingent of 96 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The participation of our soldiers in this mission shall ensure continued visibility of the engagements of the Republic of Croatia and allow for further transfer of responsibility for the security of Afghanistan to the Afghan national defence forces and the construction of their self-sustainability. Up to 110 members of the Armed Forces should be directed to Afghanistan in 2018 with the possibility of rotation. The participation of members of the armed forces in the KFOR Support operation in Kosovo, KFOR operations in Kosovo is an extremely important peace support operation for Croatia, and building peace and stability in Kosovo is not only important to us because we are members of the NATO alliance but rather because it is about our immediate neighbourhood. In this respect, Croatia is also developing bilateral defence co-operation with the Republic of Kosovo, which focuses on professional support and transfer of experience in the construction of the security and defence sector. The 25th Croatian contingent currently deployed in Kosovo consists of 33 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating in an operation with two transport helicopters, flight logistic staff and special forces. The decision to participate members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of KFOR's Support for Peace in Kosovo in the operation should send up to 40 members of the armed forces with two Croatian Air Force helicopters and anti-aircraft defences in 2018 with the possibility of rotation. Especially impressed by the fact that our people sent to Kosovo are high-level persons in their jurisdiction, and their expertise has been recognised in NATO, so our people have been offered positions of advisers in the new NATO team. These are the things that have been seen so far and are the future, and therefore the HDZ Club supports all these operations that are ahead of us, they are five and those that are in the NATO Alliance and those that are with the UN and we can only say that we commend all our officers, officers and soldiers who are now on missions to give them absolute support and that we want them a lot of success in these missions that they are currently performing with honor and defence systems of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the political system of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61525	Thank you, too. The first replica, Mr. White.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61526	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Djakic, you've read this beautifully. I'd have a few questions, we're talking action, we're talking about armed forces operations, and we're putting peace support on the other side. So guns and peace, and that's what you and I rarely know when they go together. I would just ask you, when we are already a NATO member and when our vote is full without the Republic of Croatia cannot go into any operation, has any of our diplomats ever thought about how these countries were created where we send Croatian soldiers? How did Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, Afghanistan, the Western Sahara come into existence? Do you think these countries were created by a Croatian referendum of people, by the will of these people? No, I don't. These countries were when we talked about the Middle East, part of the Ottoman Empire, and then they were colonies that got the border the way it did to Great Britain and France at the time. So these are colonies that have somehow received international recognition, but these countries have nothing to do with ethnic borders, with religious borders, absolutely nothing to do with what we in Europe mean as a national state. These are not national states and the state of war that lasts in these areas, as far as I can remember, and probably you are older and as much as you remember you will not be resolved by any peace operations but will be resolved only in a way that allows those people who live there to determine their own destiny. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the NATO alliance that we belong to and which is primarily designed as a defence alliance more, and we, along with them, are becoming part of that alliance a colonialist army in the interest of the one force that occupys that country where there will never be peace but only the status quo, and the status quo in Lebanon and the Western Sahara and Afghanistan means war.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61527	Thank you. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Beljak, you asked questions as if I was now coming back as it was and when there was Croatia from the Bosnian kingdom or from what year and the aspirations of the Croatian people for freedom. Everywhere in these countries, there are people who are at risk, who should be helped as well as Croatia should have helped in the very beginning. So all of what we're doing today must be done in the interest of these people to make them a civilized society and a safe society. A society that will have the rule of law, which will have democratic institutions, which will be built on the basis of mentoring teams that will teach security forces, military forces, but also political support that should be all the countries that they are. So to ask the question of what kind of countries they are, how did they come up I think it's meaningless than the question of the safety of those who live there is the question of all the issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61529	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61530	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Djakic. Since a lot of MPs appear on the subject of which the mission is retired, is our engagement worthy of being here at all, so I'm asking you as former members of the armed forces and the man who's been in this topic for a long time, how much these peace missions have used us in our Homeland War and you from the perspective of soldiers as much as these experiences and in these multinational operations when we're working together with what you've mentioned with friendly states, how much does this help our combat sector when it comes back here in the homeland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61531	Thank you. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61532	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well colleague, of course our soldiers, officers and officers with... They prepare with desire and desire to be the most capable, most willing, most trained and to engage in contingents that form and listen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are too busy to be the most powerful physical, motoristic, most willing as weapons and weapons managers, aircraft and all others, only those who achieve what they do. The occupation of each of our officers is that he knows one or two languages, that he can communicate, while he is trained, ready, at all the challenges that await him, that he is brave and bold in these missions. These are achievements that are on their personal construction. And the construction of the military industry in the Republic of Croatia is safe and thanks to these missions where our digital uniform is presented, our helmet, our rifle, our gun, our worldwide expansion and sales are increasing, exports are increasing, income is getting better. And these are all the effects that are being brought into... and the ultimate goal is to really establish measures like it was when the peacekeeping forces came to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They were also threatened, because some of the operations we had to carry out in the protection zones of UN forces, such as Flash, during their presence, we had to perform Operation Flash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61533	Thank you. Mr. Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61534	Dear counterpart Djakic, so what to say, what to say after all, the area in Afghanistan, where an opium macaque was planted, has grown 25 times since NATO's military mission arrived. The number of heroin addicts in America has increased 24 times, from 189,000 to 4.5 million in Afghanistan alone 3 million addicts, 400,000 people in Afghanistan are working in a drug production system. More people are involved in this than security forces. I'd like to know if you consider these results a defeat, a failure of the military mission and a second question. Do you think by continuing this policy that you and the U.S. government are going to be able to achieve some other results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61535	Answer, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61536	Thank you very much. I'd rather not answer, but here I have to. Namely, burdened with your vision of growing the field of Maks, I think you're really putting the burden of the Republic of Croatia, as a representative in this House, a burden that is not justified with nothing. It's as if you said that in Kosovo, our forces are also guarding the Making Fields. Good thing you didn't... Because your thinking and thinking of the burden only of NATO's power to guard the Making Fields is truly worrying, accusing and irresponsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This statement in the Croatian Parliament is terrible and difficult. To accuse NATO forces of guarding and producing Making Fields in Afghanistan, for me, it's inconceivable. I don't know how you managed to stay away from that information. Putting on a burden, such a terrible accusation, is really a precedent for me. Presided in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61537	Thank you very much. Now Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, so I don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing sending Croatian officers and soldiers into 6 missions plus various command functions, in the command structure of NATO. Here in the debate, different things have been said, some quite unusual, some I'll look back here and look back. But something that's said, I think it stands, which is that for peace, that is, to support in peace, in all these environments, it takes more than just armed forces. So our opinion in the GLAS and HSU Club is that Croatia should participate in these missions. But that we should participate with military missions and with development projects. And we're in fact, especially in some of these larger missions, let's say in Afghanistan, and I'm going to stick around for a little while, participate and participate with development projects. Because what soldiers can do is end armed conflicts and temporarily, especially in these international forces, temporarily ensure the absence of armed conflicts. But it's just a necessary prerequisite, in order for security forces in this case in Afghan, to strengthen enough to take over that function themselves, and in order for peace to be permanent, it takes development. And that's why the development projects that we're going to these countries are just as important in my opinion as participating in military peacekeeping missions. For example, Afghanistan, Croatia participates there with its soldiers, otherwise war in different forms in Afghanistan takes 40 years. Croatia participates there with its soldiers who have an extremely high reputation and an extremely good reputation. First because they're well-trained, because they're older, because they understand cultural diversity, religious diversity, it's not the first time they've ever been to a mosque when they get to Afghanistan. And they are respected by both the local population and their colleagues, soldiers who participate in these international missions. However, Croatia there, for example, built a library for women's school, built a high school, built, I hope that the clinic, i.e. the hospital, is completed, a maternity facility that, if shown by a successful project, can be repeated in different parts of Afghanistan. All the statistics we've heard here and concerning Afghanistan are absolutely unverified because the state administration and the public administration there don't function at a high enough level to make any of these statistics verifiable. What it is, however, is verifiable that during the Taliban government, the girl, for example, did not go to school. That during the Taliban authorities, they were destroyed in Bamjan, one of the greatest human beings in the world, so to speak. That during the Taliban, women could not work or leave the house to do anything for themselves. That's definitely changed. Is that at the level they'd tell me today, it's perfect and it's done? Well, of course not. Of course there's still a lot of work to do, including empowering the defence and security forces of Afghanistan itself. But in an apartheid that ruled there against women and girls, a positive shift was made. And I must say that I am only proud that Croatia has contributed to one small part of it and helped. Is Afghanistan now functioning after 40 years of different types of wars as one let's say a normal state of rule of law, so of course it doesn't work. But President Ghani is the best thing that's happened in Afghanistan in those last 40 years, and these people should, in this sense, be given a chance for those who say that it's something that America insists on at this point, it's something that America has stopped insisting on, but what de facto needs support to give Afghanistan a chance to get to a level where it's self-sustainable. I hope this will happen in due course, but in how many years this cannot be predicted, however, at this point as the armed forces and the defence forces of Afghanistan have shown themselves unable to maintain the order themselves and Croatia is currently participating in police training, so training police forces in Afghanistan. As far as the operation in Kosovo is concerned, I don't think there are any arguments, obviously, it's in our region, it's obvious that international forces there are actually creating a space where the institutions of these countries are building and trying to take over on their own the function of a normal and modern state. There are no objections from either the Kosovo side or the Kosovo side. Atalanta in Somalia, I can't even see what kind of objections it would be since it's a mission that actually has a fight against piracy for its function, so not only the issue of Somalia itself but the issue of free navigation in those waters for all international ships. Three missions in which I do not know, I said at the beginning, are UN missions, EU missions and NATO missions, three missions in which Croatia participates, one of which has been controversial here. India, Pakistan, we've been participating for years, it's a mission in which, in fact, the Kashmir border is being monitored. The Minurso mission in the Western Sahara, is a mission that would de facto, for its function has a referendum, but since a referendum on the fate of the Western Sahara. However, since there is no agreement between Morocco and Algeria on who would have the right to vote on this referendum it is a kind of mission waiting for better times, a de facto mission that is in a kind of stalemate position at the moment. And then we get to the mission to Lebanon. Perhaps some of you think that there is a war in Lebanon because there has been a war there for many years and Beirut has been a war zone, a divided city, so a tragic situation. For years, however, this has not been the case. So at this point in Lebanon is not a war and Beirut is not a war zone. What has happened, however, in the last two weeks is that Prime Minister Lebanon Hariri resigned on his way to Saudi Arabia. After that, he was in France with President Macron. Afterwards, he returned to Beirut and suspended after talks with the Lebanese president, so he suspended his resignation. Looking at the whole situation, what is at present an objective danger is that an "Proxy Rat" between Iran and Saudi Arabia is transferred to Lebanon. And the mission that is to be sent to Lebanon is a mission that should be prevented from coming with not only the military, but with the fact of international presence. Whether it'll be possible is another question. It takes a lot of international presence and a lot of international diplomacy, but it's our opinion that it's something if anything is worth doing, then it's worth working on to prevent war conflicts, and that's what this mission in Lebanon is about. If you don't happen to God to come there for war conflicts we'll be able to re-determine our position. But this is at this point we'd be taking part in a mission that should stop it. From the debates we heard today, I think one conclusion is evident, which is that we really need a serious reasoned debate on Croatian participation in peace missions and Croatian development aid just combined with Croatian participation in peace missions. We must warn that such a law is prepared. It exists in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was done in collaboration with the Ministry of Defence and here would warn the Secretary of State and recommend by the club GLAS and HSU that the law be reviewed, possibly updated, but that it is now possible to legally combine military participation in peacekeeping missions with the development projects that Croatia supports. Because it is a combination that gives the chance that the absence of war or the absence of armed conflicts that can contribute to military missions is gradually turning into a lasting peace that it can contribute to and can guarantee only development and economic progress. The GLAS and HSU club will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61539	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61540	Dear Representative Pusic, you were talking about the state of women that it is better for them in Afghanistan, that some schools and hospitals are open, but the question is how much better they are because 90% of women in Afghanistan suffer violence, but not from the Taliban, but from their own families, their own husbands, etc. NATO has not protected these women from this type of violence, but on the other hand many women died in that war, many women unfortunately are heroin addicts. Their children are also heroin addicts, many women, because today it's also a country with three million heroin addicts Afghanistan. And the fact that there are four and a half million heroin addicts in the United States is also shocking. She's telling you everything about how mothers whose children are getting high, how well they are for women who do drugs themselves, etc. of this mission. Because, as I said, the damage to that mission greatly outweighs the benefits you listed as the construction of a maternity home or a hospital. I think that the actions that NATO is doing are actually the most common PR stand is a propaganda farce that really does not represent any shift for the better life of an average Afghan. And if the Afghans were worse than they were, and that's what I'm saying again, in 2000, in Germany, there was, i.e. 5,000 refugees came to Germany from Afghanistan. Last year, 17,000 refugees came from Afghanistan. It means a 25-fold increase. That tells you all about the breakdown and defeat of the policy that you and America advocate there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61541	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Pusic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61542	Thank you. First school, hospital, library is not what NATO built in Afghanistan. This is what only Croatia built in Afghanistan, so not the mission of Resolution Support but only Croatia. And as for the 3 million heroin addicts in Afghanistan, it's impossible to determine, it's fictional statistics because they don't have it. So now I can claim 5, you 3, someone 2, that statistics doesn't exist. It'll be good when one day the state and public administration work to that level that they can have that data and that's certainly a serious problem, but what are the numbers, it simply doesn't exist as information as far as Afghanistan itself is concerned. As for the possibility of not building a school but the possibility of girls going to school at all, this is the result of this mission because during the Taliban government, girls were not allowed to go to school. Women are not directions to work. They were flogged by doctors who were trying to help people and work as doctors just because they were women and they were trying to work. So these are facts that are irrefutable. Whether as I said it was now a situation or some one we might wish for, so of course it wasn't and after 40 years of war it would take a long time to fix the situation but this is a very significant shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61543	Thank you. Mr. Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleague Pusic, you mentioned Afghanistan, what I would point out is one moment, and that is that after he retired, in fact, most of the US military and foreign forces, it is not that the situation improved, but that the situation is getting worse. And it turns out that without the peace force, that state can hardly function. In particular, the Taliban who have always had key support in the south of the country in... The work and some foreign services but well, that's another topic, now they've spread to the north. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say the parts where the Uzbeks are the most and Tajians where they had no support before and even in the Panshire Valley, today the Taliban are present, and that only shows that what you said is needed, a long way to stabilise the state and that peace missions are there, cannot be replaced or without them, that state will not be able to function for much longer. Secondly, you mentioned Kosovo, given the atmosphere in neighbouring Serbia and some of the many comments we hear about Kosovo's status and the difficult recognition of Kosovo as an independent state, how long do you think it takes to really create awareness there that Kosovo is an independent state and that it can function as such or that international forces will have to remain there for an unlimited period of decades to prevent new conflicts? If you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61545	Here you go, Mrs. Pusic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61546	Thank you very much. So, as far as Afghanistan is concerned,... what to say and it actually showed up when the number of international forces started to decrease there and that's a long-term problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as Kosovo is concerned, it seems to me that my international context has changed somewhat. So, there is a great interest or involvement of America related to Kosovo and this region. In my assessment, however, Russia's interest remained as high, and even if you will, stronger in this particular work not only in Kosovo but in the whole of the Balkans or in Southeast Europe since in some way the old policy of the spheres of interest has returned, and at this point I do not think that America sees Southeast Europe as its own sphere of interest. And in this respect, my opinion that the situation in Kosovo today may be more sensitive and the whole situation with Kosovo status is more sensitive than it was originally or used to be. To what extent this will extend the need for the presence of international forces, so if you want to do much greater European forces and the EU in the presence in Kosovo, I cannot assess but I certainly think that the need for a European presence in Kosovo has increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61547	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Pusic, you have made it very clear what happened in the civil sector, in the construction of institutions, educated institutions, hospitals, and I think that so is the goal and mission of NATO alliances and associates and allies with them that in certain regions, there are clearly outlined goals that are being solved militaryly, to prevent further war, which is being resolved with civil structures and police, which is being built to contribute to further progress, peace, legal certainty, and to educate the people of Afghanistan to actually live better and better. These are things that I can really commend in your statements, but I also believe that we will continue to build and work on that area to at least figure out something about civilization that is needed in Afghanistan itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61549	Replication response, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61550	Thank you very much. I think you should be fully aware that from peacekeeping missions, military missions can't expect what they can't do. They can do an unusually important thing. So, when there's an armed war conflict, they can stop it. And without that stop, there's nothing further, there's no progress, there's no development, there's no improvement in the situation. But it's not the end of the job, it's kind of creating conditions, that could be what it takes for lasting peace to happen, and that's development. It's infrastructure first, so then development, people have to work, they have to go to school, they have to be able to get jobs, so that peace can be maintained permanently. And that is why I appeal once again, that these two activities, within our frameworks, we are not the great world power. But in our frames, we combine these two activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61551	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. First, Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61552	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about military missions, NATO and military missions, where the Croatian military participates, the fact when we talk about NATO, means NATO and these military missions should be the ones that will program certain conflicts, stop conflicts, but the fact and we have to observe that, in many situations, NATO has failed or improved. Well, we have one big problem today, and we need to talk about it honestly, that the north side of Africa and Asia, we don't really have any states anymore. I do not believe that NATO with so many powers could not preserve peace, with so much money, with so much influence, with so much military force, with interesting lobbys that finance both arms and industry that they could not stop any creation of ISIL, I have no doubt. That these interesting lobbies really didn't do one thing, in fact, that we now have a vast area, which is not far from Croatia either, Europe and this affects Europe we know through the very migrations that have been in epic proportions. I highly doubt that many countries that don't exist, they literally don't exist as states, that NATO couldn't do that... before, that he had an interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, when we look at it from that aspect, that we are all for peace in the world, regardless, and that's why I'm saddened if someone's talking against some thing about NATO that they critically view as fellow MPs, then they all rise up against it. Why don't you just watch some things and take a critical look at it that way. And I repeat once again, that NATO, I, my personal position, had an interest in preventing wars from Iraq, to Africa, but this is a geostrategic blow from all sides means. It's a political disorder. I don't praise dictatorial regimes, however, I highly doubt that such lobbys within NATO are such an interesting group, such a mechanism that they couldn't stop, so much bloodshed, so much suffering, that they don't hide behind interest. This is my position, and I publicly say it not for the first time, because I feel sorry for those spaces, because I think that so much power could have stopped it from being the political interest of it all, and not producing further victims and instability in that area. So we can remember, here I come back to the moment when we speak to the Croatian soldier, as the Croatian soldier came into existence. The Croatian soldier was created because we must remember that the secretary of state, the US, came to Belgrade and said and gave a very short deadline, on their judgment, to resolve Croatia's problem and to remain the SFRY in its form. It was one big mistake and where the Croatian soldier had to continue and got the legality then and Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian politics. We need to remember the Secretary of State... that meeting in Belgrade, I think, but irrelevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ugl. Then the green light was given to rid the little rebellion in a small country of stability. The Croatian soldier was formed on the board, alone without the help of anyone. Certain countries have recognised it, from the Vatican, Germany and other countries, have recognised us and, of course, our diaspora, and together with the huge victims, a Croatian soldier, a victorious soldier, a victorious Croatian army, along with the Croatian Defence Council, have created an independent Republic. I am sorry that international institutions did not immediately prevent Vukovar and Skabrinj and Srebrenica and the sacrifices we feel today and the consequences. Croatia today has 45 billion euros in damages, which has not been paid to the Croatian state, and certainly out of these 45 billion euros could create better conditions for Croatian soldiers, not that the Croatian soldier sues his country, according to courts and that those sentences are obtained. That the Croatian soldier must be materially technically well equipped, logistic, well-trained, and the Croatian soldier has these opportunities, because what the Croatian soldier, the winning operation of the Storm, has proved this and that is what all military analysts are studying and everyone admires this behavior. But when we go into these operations, then I'm saying, from the point of view, I've been a professional soldier for 17 years. I know what it means to be a soldier, I know what a soldier's life is, I know what to provide for a soldier, it's not a job. It is an invitation, it is a man who is 24 hours available to his country, respects the Constitution, loyalty to Croatia, and I believe that the Croatian soldier must have better conditions in Croatia, better and equipped and invited Croatian governments all to good co-operation with NATO, with the European Union, with America must use better mainly on the issue when I look now here you mentioned helicopters. Why would they just give me a living force? Which is why when they love us so much, they wouldn't give us the chance to get military jets of combat, supersonic aircraft. Let's say the Americans, they can do it but we can't compete that our soldiers are conflicting to be, we give the greatest number of people. I'm for peace, we're all here for peace, but we have to watch it critically. And don't think if we critically observe certain fellow agents that we are against being peace in the world. Indeed, but the fact is that we send our sons, relatives, people, Croatian soldiers to go. What is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia? Do we or the foreign ministry have that here once in the Parliament tells us of all these missions to tell us the results? I know that a Croatian soldier who has been paid off as a professional who has not been provided with the cost of his life because it is not easy to be a professional soldier. You've been separated from family too much time. I know that the Croatian soldier tends to go on a mission most simply because of the living conditions he has in Croatia. I know the ministry is now trying to make a move, step forward to create better living conditions in the military and these are huge... I know it's been abandoned for years, and I know that the Croatian Army has for some time been in the last 17 years, 15 years simply isolated, that a number of people from the system have gone unfairly who have had a huge experience that's the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To leave for missions without good analysis, without the interest of the national Republic of Croatia and to protect who knows what interests we are not aware of. It's not good, and that Parliament, we Parliamentarians need to know when we decide on this. It's an obligation that doesn't matter which government is because we send people here. Well, we can't Croats just send live meat into certain, mostly where dangerous operations exist, where people will lose their heads, means where their families will be without those people, and we as a state mean no Croatian soldiers. I believe that the Croatian soldier must perform every task, should invest more in material and technical means, in logistics, in better pay because it is an invitation. I repeat once again as the professional soldier I've been to for a long time, and there are probably others among us who have been and in the Special Police we have a colleague, there were those who have been professional and they know it's an invitation. You don't have any free time here. You must be loyal to your country's orders for 24 hours and perform all your duties. I would therefore once again ask the Minister of Defence, the Defence Committee of the Assembly, foreign policy to re-analyze what is Croatia's interest because it calls only for development, and we have no indicators. So it's not good. Advocacy didn't do us any good. We see him being convicted and Ratko Mladic, a war criminal. Croatia and the victims of Croatia are mentioned, neither Skabrnje nor Peru, nor the others. Not mentioned anymore, I ask that the Croatian government finally send a payment to Vukic, who was a Chetnik to the president of Serbia and that the damages be charged, so we will also have trained soldiers and social measures and health services better. Therefore, it is time to think carefully and view the sovereign interests of the Republic of Croatia and we are all... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61553	You'll get a chance because you have four replicas. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61554	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bulj in your presentation is mentioned many times in the interest of NATO and the interest of NATO forces. There are certainly interests in the world, and we all know it well. Then you said someone should love us or not. I think we should appreciate each other and respect each other. They don't need us to be loved by Americans or Russians or anyone else. We must respect and seek in this world what is best for our Croatia. I think NATO did great things for Croatia and Bosnia in particular and for Herzegovina who stopped the war, which people were happy when they came. I hope that's how it was in Afghanistan, and I'm glad that our forces are performing on these world wars, actually keeping one peace, trying to make a contribution. We know in Afghanistan 40 years of war that they live there, how women are disfigured, women's children and so on. I hope that NATO has also done good things in Afghanistan, so let's ask ourselves what would happen today if NATO didn't oversee the Balkans, what would it look like and if they were to withdraw from all these options that are here today in Kosovo, and for a time in Macedonia. And I think it's one good thing, and world powers, world states like Russia, America, Europe, they're looking at their own interests. Oh, God, if our war had come to us and to Bosnia earlier and stopped all that bloodshed, we wouldn't have this criminal sitting there in The Hague today who was sentenced to life imprisonment. And we wouldn't have any hope today that there won't be wars and that it won't come to what happened even though we see threats from the same countries that attacked us specifically and Serbia that you mentioned. And the president of Serbia was a Chetnik, so here he is, and now he's not. I hope NATO is still one of those corrections. [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61555	Thank you, thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61556	My colleague Misic, I was actually going to take a critical look at what we're all talking about in frequent conversations and thinking people and citizens of the Republic and one slightly different attitude just to go critically and come to some conclusion because the interest is to open a debate on these things, I think you'll agree. Of course, when I look at it, I say at first, when I look at the NATO alliance, when I look at the countries of North Africa towards Asia that no longer exist, so there aren't any, maybe on the border map, but in reality they don't exist as states, as institutions, I just can't believe that NATO couldn't stop it. However, there is always a dose of interest, perhaps interest groups that produce weapons, may have been targeted at something to shake out all their weapons, to collect them well. So do you believe that, I believe, the NATO industry is connected to the U.S. weapons industry, to the Ministry of Defense. Well, that's been mentioned countless times. We are all for peace in BiH where I have also been for a year and I know what this people have suffered and I know that the Croatian soldier has helped not to happen another Srebrenica and worse, but the fact is that today we have a danger where the president of Republika Srpska's formation says he will go to the stand-off for an independent state. So we can throw ourselves twice with a rock. We have an unstable area, I am sorry that NATO and then the American diplomacy did not stop the war in Croatia, in Bosnia, in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia,... The former states, it would really be commendable of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is not, why? And the Croatian soldier was created to resist all forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61557	Thank you. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61558	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, therefore you mentioned one very important thing, which is the material condition of the Croatian soldier. So it's not just about their salaries or certain other material rights like salary supplements because over the past years, there have been cases of lawsuits and disputes with the ministry related to the failure to pay off their rights. But other important things are the conditions in which they stay and live, primarily military. We have a situation, we have brought the Homeland Security Strategy and we have seen it in recent events, especially around these threats such as the fires that the military has this irreplaceable role. It can be used to prevent these kinds of threats. In order to achieve this, we would firstly have to take care of the conditions in which they live, so we now have an illogical situation to spend nearly 50 million a year on the transport of soldiers because the military plants were situated in different parts of Croatia, so they should travel to them, and on the other hand, here is the arrangement of a military office in Petrinja that was restored cost 180 million kuna. We have military offices in Nasice or Knin that are in a rather poor state, and there, of course, are announced to organize a military office in Vukovar, Sinj, Varazdin and Plots. I don't think that this arrangement of these barracks should be seen as a cost especially because the armed forces themselves can contribute much and even a lot of jobs can be done themselves, but in the long run, society will benefit much more than the costs of raising the material status or the status of Croatian soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61559	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61560	Well, I'll start at the end. I agree with you that the Croatian soldier and the Croatian army can contribute greatly in the event of threats and crisis along with the civilian population and civil authorities, by fire, because it is simply so natural. And the Croatian army is part of the people, these are Croatian soldiers and saves themselves what the army is in Sinj, in Vukovar. I know it's down in our area, 40 million kuna was paid annually for a trip to Benkovec, Knin from this part of the Imot, Sinj, and Vrgorak, and that's good and it's good strategic. So it's also strategically good because of these situations and because of various threats because we know what the border is, it's good that it's in Vukovar, it's good that it's in Varazdin, it's good Puma, and it's great, it means that territorial and strategic being a soldier is not a expense, but we should invest in soldiers. To invest in soldiers, not only in the wages you said, but 24 hours should make life possible for a soldier. I said shoes, clothes, 'cause it's just a call. This is the man you have to enable, and not let him buy himself for lunch salad or food, so it's a question of the lives of Croatian soldiers in Croatian barracks, here in this area. And about NATO mission when we talk about these tasks and roles, I believe that Croatia will find the means that in Croatia the Croatian soldier has good conditions and not to complain, I have an example from... I've had myself where they're numerous... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] States may, however, be allowed to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian soldier must not be allowed to sue his country but should be given conditions and we have a perspective, we have a solution, let a payment be finally sent to Vukic, the president of Serbia, and let him pay that 45 billion euros in damages and crimes that Serbia has committed, in which he participated, to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61561	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61562	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, you've talked a lot about the training and equipment of Croatian soldiers and a lot of pessimistic tones. I will point out here that this is the first government after a long, long time, which has allocated more funding to the Ministry of Defense in this year and of course this growth has been felt in the following year. Also, after 15 years, a strategy of national security was adopted, the Law on the Homeland Security System, a new territorial structure where it is just going to be on the hands of soldiers that it will not be as General Krsticevic, the Minister of Defence, the Traveling Army, said to spend more time on the bus travelling from their place of residence to their place of work than it will be more time for them to be with their families and, of course, more effectively in their workplace. I also agree only with you in the part where you described Croatian soldiers that it is literally brand, wherever they appear they are appreciated and respected. Among other things last year, the Canadians. Our Canadian pilots, when they put out fires in Israel, were personally visited by their prime minister, congratulated them. Many countries seeking international assistance and missions are literally asking for Croatian soldiers to participate in the missions. Among other things, we recently discussed Poland where Poland insisted that Croatian soldiers be in the contingent, so I believe that our army has a far greater reputation than some of our discussions. And not to mention the military industry where here's the first time in Afghanistan are our soldiers and armed and armed with all parts of our military industry. Among other things, there are many commendations, among other things only one sentence from the US defence minister, where he said "Croatia is a small country, but fighting significantly above its category" means all praises.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61563	Thank you very much, Mr. Uncle. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61564	I can only praise Croatian soldiers for my entire working life for 18 years I was a Croatian soldier professional. Therefore, the Croatian soldier is not only a brand, what the Croatian soldier has has has no soldier in the world. In a few days, the Croatian soldier freed a larger area than the Kosovo area, alone from nothing came from an ordinary man. Therefore, I have not said a single word, I have only spoken critically, thinking critically about military missions, critically to open the debate, to see all aspects of which we often boast, aspects which have effects on Croatia in terms of these missions in unstable areas where the Croatian soldier is leaving. What's the Croatian interest in that? Should we be of strategic interest to the Croatian state, Croatian soldier. And about the Croatian soldier everything you said I'll say ten times more, and you'll repeat behind me again, perhaps you don't have a word of praise because it's natural. We have something that no one in the world has ever had. We admire the Israelis, the Americans are not clear to them that this Croatian soldier has come out of nothing in the war, and thus has one militaryly organized human army which is the largest brand that the Croatian state has with all attempts to devalue, arrest, locate the most prominent sons, persecution, which would make the Scheks River a very simple one of those sentences and trials. So I don't have a problem with that. But the second is the creation of conditions of life that are not good, the move has, I personally was with General Krstičević when we talked and in the Defence Committee, we have no problem with it. But the interest of the Croatian state and Croatian soldiers must not only be to send them on a mission without having... strategic importance for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61565	Thank you. The last replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Bulj, constantly in your presentation, you've been trying to figure out what our national interest is, which is the goal of the Republic of Croatia. I will only read one paragraph in the reasoning of these decisions, "The membership of NATO is a strong contribution to national security, the security of allies and the general position in the international community. In this way, the Republic of Croatia also realises its strategic interest by recognising the alliance as the strongest guarantee of security and a stable framework for engagement in the preservation and promotion of regional European and international security and of transatlantic alliances and partnerships whose values and interests are shared entirely." This is about the national interest of the objective only briefly what is here in the explanation. But you also mentioned the material status of soldiers i.e. These lawsuits that are truly alarming are over a thousand and how many, but it would be correct of you, since you were also a member of the 4th Guard and a secretary of defense, we know the legendary commander of the 4th Guard, it would be correct of you to point out from when these lawsuits were, that they were from before and all the aspirations of your commander, which he made to increase the budget itself. He did not make an increase in the budget solely for the sake of the equipment for the plane and for everything, he made it quite necessary to change the rules where our soldiers did not receive during a certain period of past governments also contribute to working for holidays, night work, etc. on the basis of which are now these enormous lawsuits. That is why it should be commended for the efforts of the ministry and the Secretary of State and the Minister who want to change it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61567	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61568	Comrade Bačić, you read well, but the text is not very well written for you. You've read one explanation written, but I've been quite described as being written by the promoter, but my intention was quite different to see from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Economy, and on this matter I've mentioned the planes, which is why NATO is the one who today so... who the minister and commander and friend, why don't we publicly state why we shouldn't be given NATO planes, here you say you're with us give your soldier, a brave soldier. He won't say that. Again, there are too many interests in NATO. I'm sorry we don't have a better, more stable situation in Africa both in our environment and in Asia and in BiH and Kosovo, I speak in our vicinity. I'm sorry NATO isn't '91. He told Slobodan Milosevic no, and he gave him a deadline... for the Croats to understand the satire. I said the chronological one situation I put into today's situation, like in Lebanon. I do not believe and today I cannot believe that the Croatian state was left alone with NATO, with the European Community then. We're on our own. The Croatian soldier is an excuse alone, he is neither a NATO child nor an EU. The Croatian soldier is a modern soldier and we must protect him. This is what the minister would agree with if he were here, he's a modern soldier. And my questions, you're talking about four worries, that I was, that part of the ruling, when we mentioned Sinj, the army came to Sinj, we worked together, we kept it, we kept the strategy, so national strategy, we have no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61569	Thank you, Mr. Bull. And now the last individual debate, Mr. Bacic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61570	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think my colleagues brought a lot of things to my attention, and the chronological things that were going on, and here's my colleague Pernar, he gave up his debate, so I'm going to try to be brief, so we don't keep it that long. That's why I've come forward for a debate about this particular motion for a decision regarding a peace operation... how the debate is united for all of these points that I think is good, so I'm going to refer a little bit to everything then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have before us this package of decisions of the ministry, i.e. Governments sent to the Parliament regarding these peace missions and members of our armed forces. It means missions of both NATO and the UN and KFOR that are also in Afghanistan, Somalia, Kosovo, in general in Europe, the Western Sahara and India, Pakistan and Lebanon. In addition to all these proposals, it should normally be pointed out that, in agreement with the President of the Republic of Croatia, the funds provided in the budget, as we have often mentioned through the debate. It is important to stress that the number of members, significant in these operations, does not increase significantly, that it is similar from the decisions of 2017 and that it is exclusively officers and officers who will serve as military observers and health engineering forces, the army of the Republic of Croatia that are there to create a secure, stable framework and an advanced environment and strengthen the rule of law, the protection of human rights and security civilians. And all for the purpose of international peace. So it's important that the emphasis is that it's not just combat operations, it's peace operations. It is an important element that for many years in all these operations in some and 15 years, and here, we have done a lot through the discussion of this particular topic and Lebanon, where we must commend both the responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has been prepared to invest in the amendment, that we do not send our soldiers there at all. But they gave us, of course, i.e. They asked us to trust them, that they would assess the situation, but that in the first place, of course, security and the crisis situation itself in Lebanon and whether or not we would send our soldiers there. As for the operation... In Somalia, it may be interesting to link this together, where only our armed forces are working on terms, i.e. They're working to prevent piracy and armed robbery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is interesting for us, as a maritime land, with a large number of sailors who are often in such situations, so definitely experience in crisis management in such situations, robbery and options is of the same importance to us. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, the same was often mentioned in the debate about our presence there as much as we contribute, how helpful we will be. I think we must stress here that these are counsellors' tasks, training and mentoring and Afghan armies, especially the Afghan police. And I think that this segment of development and the civil sector is satisfied, and I think that our contingents and our armed forces have received numerous, not only military but also civil awards, so we are definitely a good example here. We discussed here what is our goal, our strategies, our national interest. I think as a member of NATO, we must certainly participate in these peace missions. They really use, not only for us, but for the whole world, the interesting thing is that they train our armed forces in one of the interesting new conditions, the multinational conditions, where our members, our armies, are simply, in conditions where experience is acquired very quickly and which experience they then pass on when they come to Croatia and to other members of our armed forces and thus develop our defence sector normally. Here, most of it I'll try to skip, because we've discussed it a lot, so since it's the last debate, we don't waste that much time. We should stress our participation in the Kafur operation in Kosovo that has definitely special importance for the Republic of Croatia and we must stress that. Here, we recently adopted and brought and discussed here the prevention of double taxation with the Republic of Kosovo. That's what we're interested in, because it's de facto for us in the neighborhood and all the implications that are going on there, they can quickly spill over here. And the simple stability and independence of Kosovo must be and is the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia. Normally, we have also shown that we are helping, not only with defence, security, but also with all the engagements that bring the Republic of Kosovo, NATO closer and integration. Everyone who follows the work of the ministry liked me and I am very pleased that I am on the Defence Committee and that I am monitoring General and Minister Krtičević and we see all his activities and about yesterday's budget debate, we see all the items relating to the defence, but also his activities and activities of the ministry when the summits of all NATO-level defence ministers are also seen that the reputation of our army, which has always been extremely large but also that with General Krsticević, in a special way, is now worth it. We have become irreplaceable, and a very high-quality member of all the integrations and alliances we are in. We also see this through these conferences and conventions that have been happening lately and related to the military industry, as well as figures that change about our military industry and all of this, regardless of what the main objective is for international co-operation and international peace and some foreign political factors. But we must stress our contributions to this peace mission and our continued engagement in these peace missions both contribute to the Republic of Croatia and through the economy. With this we send a picture of a secure and stable member. We see how much this has contributed to the development of our military industry. But we must also stress the tendency to be personally interesting to me, which is the desire of both the Ministry and Minister Krstičević in the development of our military school that will be transformed one day and I think soon into a military university. There still needs to be a normal open discussion whether it will be a university separately or put it in some form, integration within the rest of our universities. And I think all of these actions of the peace and all of our foreign-political engagement, especially in the defence sector, contribute not only to the development of the economy, but to the development of concrete and university. A larger number of cadets will come to our universities and tomorrow's military university, so here's a definitely full support for all peace missions. A normal greeting and we must always keep in mind and our soldiers in all these dangerous territories, may God bless them, let the ministry carry on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61571	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas. And now State Secretary Mr Tomislav Ivić will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honorary MPs and MPs. I would like to thank all the participants in the debate at a correct hearing. I believe and hope that the vast majority of parliamentary deputies will support these proposals for decisions to participate in various missions and repeat what is the fundamental thing that the safety of Croatian soldiers must and always must be and has always been in the first place. That's why they were also some of the dilemmas that we discussed here today, specifically Lebanon. Of course, we will follow the security situation and make decisions accordingly. So I ask you once again to support all these motions when there's a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61573	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. It was five decisions. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met most likely next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u61574	The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace of the Resolution Support in Afghanistan, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I stress that Article 7(6) The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that a majority of all MPs' votes are required to make a decision, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace resolution support in Afghanistan, please vote. I find that most votes, 90 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 5 votes against a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support the peace of the Resolution Support in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62047	We're moving now to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 218. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on the Economic and Legislative Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ms. Natasha Mikush-Zigman is the secretary-general of the ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62048	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Investments in First Reading. Before explaining what we are proposing, then, to these amendments and amendments to the laws, I would like to point out that, therefore, one of the government's main objectives as a promoter of this law is to make Croatia a country that is more attractive to domestic and foreign investment and is also to make it a country that is both recognised domestically and internationally as perspective and as an open state with a stable legal environment precisely to attract investment to the greatest extent possible, and thus open up a space for economic growth and employment. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, which is before you, came from the need to improve the legal framework, i.e. precisely with this intention that I mentioned earlier in order to intensify the investment processes and to create a more stable investment environment. The proposal for a law is also an effort to comply with its provisions under Commission Regulation No 651 of 2014. After the European Commission has called on the European Commission to align Article 15 of the applicable investment law with the legal acts in force in the EU, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft. Allow me before I explain what is changing, so these amendments and additions to the law, to briefly present the information that is related to the implementation, hence the existing Investment Encouragement Act. We therefore have received 738 applications for the use of support or incentives by small, medium and large entrepreneurs, based on the current legislative framework. Of these, 138 applications relate to projects of large entrepreneurs and 600 applications for projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, so both small and medium-sized enterprises prevail in the total number of applications received under this Investment Encouragement Act. Of this number, 51 entrepreneurs have given up their request for encouragement, 27 applications have been rejected, and the remaining 660 are thus or so far approved incentives, i.e. investment projects or projects currently being processed. And the height, therefore, for these 660 projects I now mention is approximately 31 and a half billion kuna, and it is planned to open around 17500 new jobs, so by encouraging the projects that are proposed. According to the latest data on 15 November this year, the confirmation of the status of users according to this law received a total of 258 entrepreneurs. Therefore, the remaining number is in the processing of which, therefore, 242 companies and 16 crafts and 119 small entrepreneurs, 74 medium and 65 large entrepreneurs. 5 of them, meanwhile, gave up investment, and one entrepreneur took advantage of EU support at the maximum, so although he has the right under the law to encourage after cumulation, it was no longer possible to give him a boost under the law. The value of investment, meaning for approved projects, amounts to €11 billion, and their realisation plans to create almost 9900 new jobs. Of this, more than 6.6 billion kuna and nearly 4700 new jobs relate to investment by large entrepreneurs, while SMEs who are beneficiaries of support are planning investments worth a total of 4.4 billion kuna and the planned opening of 5189 new jobs. Experiences in implementation, therefore, of the current law among others and of the fact as you could see through the figures presented that a relatively small, i.e. a modest number of projects were approved in relation to the required incentives, i.e. support, pointed out precisely the need to improve certain provisions of the law that we now propose through these amendments and additions. The amendments and additions, therefore, which are in front of you, introduce more favourable conditions for the achievement of support, i.e. incentive measures. First, in the case of micro-enterprises, this is the first target population we want to address these amendments and additions to the laws, in such a way as to allow micro-enterprises to take into account, as an investment cost taken into account for the approval of support under this law, the equipment used not only for the purchase of new equipment but also for the value of the equipment used, up to five years of age. Furthermore, entrepreneurs, micro entrepreneurs who have had to meet the requirement to open up to a minimum of three new jobs in one year, thus allowing them to meet this requirement not within one year as it was, or as is now under the applicable law, already propose to extend that deadline to three years from the start of the investment. The conditions for the use of investment support for the information and communication technology sector as one of the sectors that is extremely pro-pulsing and important for the Croatian economy are improved in such a way that we propose that the minimum amount of investment needed to achieve the right to use the support under this law is reduced by two thirds, i.e. from 150 000 euros, as is now prescribed to 50,000 euros under the amendment and addition of this law, provided that minimum 10 new jobs are opened. Such projects, therefore in the ICT sector, will be able to benefit from a reduction in profit tax between 25 and 50% depending on the size of entrepreneurs. The third amendment we propose is to introduce new support for investment projects worth more than five million euros. But what's important is to point out that this is about economic activation of inactive state property, so property owned by the Republic of Croatia. What we are proposing is that in the assisted areas of the Republic of Croatia property that is state-owned, which is not in function and in which no economic activity is carried out, therefore it is possible for private entrepreneurs to rent and inactive assets for a period of up to a maximum of 10 years without paying compensation. The conditions to be met in order to grant support in this way are to invest three million euros within three years in projects for which the entrepreneur, therefore, is to rent such assets and on condition that they increase the value of those assets by 50%. After the expiry of that period of 10 years with the fulfilment of, of course, the conditions laid down for the realisation of an investment project, the investor would be entitled to purchase that asset in accordance with the estimated market value before its economic activation. What do we want? What we consider to be additional positive effects, therefore precisely these measures that I have now explained, is that by economic activation of inactive assets from the Republic of Croatia's portfolio, these assets are practically from the cost position in the state budget after the end of the activation period are actually transformed into the position of income from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. We also suggest that the law extends the concept of logistics and distribution centres. That they are acceptable projects to use support based on this law, and that has not been the case so far. So far, projects have been exclusively related to production processing activities. This would in fact extend the scope of the activities, i.e. the project which can be approved under this law for the purpose of encouraging investment. The law also extends the prescribed period of preservation of the number of new jobs, which are linked to the investment project. Therefore, the provisions of the law are more flexible, but for those entrepreneurs, who were affected by the period of the financial crisis, and as a result of the conditions of the financial crisis, so from 2009-2015 they could not, in accordance with the plan, employ a certain number of employees. They are therefore able to employ this number of employees during the total duration of the project. Therefore, it is not prescribed that in each year, as originally prescribed by the project proposal, such a number is respected for each year. However, this applies only to those entrepreneurs who could not therefore condition their business, i.e. whose business was affected by the financial crisis, and for this reason could not employ the planned number of new workers. We believe, therefore, that the results we propose will be achieved by these amendments and amendments to the law, and this legislative framework is in force by 2020 in accordance with the support programme approved by the European Commission. We expect that there will be an increase in the number of approved projects, investments, for an indicative of 50 projects at the annual level. And that their total value could increase to, by about 1.2 billion kuna a year. In conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a proposer of this act, believes that the issues proposed will be regulated by amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act, will contribute to the increase of realised investment projects, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and the economic activation of inactive state property, through the introduction of this paper, which we propose through amendments to and more uniform regional development of the Republic of Croatia. The funds necessary for the implementation of this law are provided for in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, in the division of the Ministry of Economy of Entrepreneurship and crafts. For 2018. 70 million kuna, in '19. an amount of €84.2 million and €90.2 million for 2020. Thank you very much for your attention, and here I hope you will support therefore, these changes and additions that we believe will contribute to increasing investment and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62049	Thank you very much. Replica, we only have one replica, Mr. Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62050	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Ms. Mikush Zigman, so of course it is necessary to support every effort to improve the economy in the Republic of Croatia, as well as to create new jobs first and foremost. With this in mind, I would like to ask one question, which may be more about the structure of these investments. I'm a little bit off, actually very good, very positive. You're saying that 31.5 billion total projects are planned to create 17500 jobs. According to those projects that have gained status, 11 billion and 9900 jobs are being achieved. So, a third of the assets and almost half of the jobs are realised with that, with that third of the investments. Now, what I find a little unusual is whether it's project structure or what it's about. In large numbers, we talk about 6.6 billion investments and 4700 jobs, and in small and medium-sized, we have much smaller investments, so 4.4 billion and a lot more jobs 5189. Whether projects are thus evaluated that you actually mention these deadlines for opening jobs and extending these deadlines, whether projects are evaluated in this way, that it is important how many jobs are actually opened, or that it is clean because of the structure of the investment itself, when you talk about information and communication technologies, then it is quite clear that these technologies are competitive, however, these technologies don't open up a lot of jobs, or I may be mistaken. You can explain to me a little bit, how do small and medium-sized entrepreneurs accomplish through more jobs or large projects? Here's to clarify the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62051	The answer to a respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62052	Thank you very much for asking. So the figures that I've given up, here's just a little bit to repeat, like this, so 660 is a total of projects approved or processed. And that amount of projects according to the proposals, of course, as the entrepreneurs also gave us according to the structure of new employment or investments that can be recognised under this law, therefore, these data are drawn from their applications, practically. According to these 660 approved projects, it expects 17500 new jobs to be opened. Of those 252 projects that are approved, therefore, they are now approved, there is an expected effect, slightly less than 9900 new jobs. When we talk about structure, and you mentioned well, so, just by sector and communication, information communication technology, it is also characterized by having very little investment in equipment, therefore, material investment, angle. investments are, in fact, brought down to the creation of new jobs. Because the nature of the sector itself is such that, in fact, it is mostly going to hire a new workforce which can then explain why, in small and medium-sized enterprises, it is mainly micro or small enterprises that are precisely the number of new jobs that are much larger than large companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62053	Would the committee's reporters like to take the floor now? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to be the Club of Representatives of the Most in the name of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62054	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, respected secretary of state, co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Given the importance of the law that helps, encourages, improves business climates bring investments, I think it should really be more important in this House to have all MPs present because it is of interest to us, all of the clubs of the representatives and I hope that in this reading and right and comments, the remarks that we will make are complemented that the ministry comes out with an even better, better proposal. Of course, we all think about formulating, policy implementation we expect the state to play a key role and certain key settings that we all communicate. What we lack is actually a strategic definition of how we want to attract investors in Croatia, what we are willing to give and actually how we operate in the environment. We see that all the countries around us are our competitors, everyone wants to get quality investment, wants to create new added value, new jobs. It's our goal, too, and that's why we have to move strategically in that direction. Well one of the basic settings of such a document then provide a stable regulatory environment, that there are no frequent amendments to the law, that especially those relating to taxes, we need to ensure that their business processes are carried out quickly, especially by those who are administratively regulatoryly linked to them as little as possible and that they are taking place as quickly as possible. And what's even more important is what I often stress here should be an impact assessment on the law, the law we're passing. We also now have the Investment Encouragement Act here. I don't have an impact assessment in front of me. Let's get out of it, so the government, we all voted together here, we want an impact assessment, we want to know if any of you have seen the impact assessment. We can say yes, it'll be positive. Looks positive. We see in the draft budget an increase was made, but what are the final effects, which are achievements, which we have set as criteria, as we will measure the effectiveness of Minister Dalic's decision if we don't know what the parameter is. We can always agree to this we'll give a little bit more, a little less, to the one we'll add in one way or another or take away. However, what is the level of responsibility and what is the level of effectiveness of the one who proposes it. I mean, until it's done, we won't be able to measure either politics or this government, or any of the following, and we have to go back to setting the goals of passing a certain law, and ultimately, there must be both political and professional responsibility behind it. This proposal is what I'm going to make and some things we're commending as a club, and I'm going to bring out some that we think should be redefined and, of course, some suggestions, so let's be in this part of it and we've got as much preparation as possible for the next readings. What is the supply of used equipment for micro-entrepreneurs will certainly help them because at the end of the day when someone starts from that position a lot of things may already have or should say the possibility of getting, sees that the more favourable they pass, the more they cannot be in debt. So I think it's one of the positive sides. All you have to do is actually take care of the value of the equipment itself, so that there is no manipulation. But it definitely helps. We also welcome the support of investments related to the East industry that has not been envisaged so far. We've seen a lot of pressures, constructive proposals just for companies that come into existence every day in that industry, they want to develop more quality. The limit of acceptable investment has been lowered to 50,000 euros. They'll use these benefits then and for ten years, have a tax exemption. Here, however, I would suggest that we be a little more flexible in this direction. I'd like to ask you a question as to why the condition is that it's 10 jobs. If we look at that same criterion, for other micro entrepreneurs it is set that only three new jobs are needed. And I think that even here, we should at least even it out to those three that we don't know, because everything that's in the East industry mostly comes from microenterprises. It's actually the power we have, the power that we have here happens to us in one of Osijek, and I think the number of employees is less important to them than the work they do, and we see they do world jobs. You yourself have made observations that sometimes because of the rigorous conditions of employment they have to give jobs to external associates through companies and sometimes you will have a really successful, quality company that with a few employees brings huge revenues both to their companies and to the Republic of Croatia. So here I'd like to ask you to consider this particular job criterion, to bring it down to as low a level as possible. We also welcome the intention to activate inactive state property in assisted areas. I welcome here the assisted areas exactly what they are asking for as many investors as possible, but we are still going back to the Ministry of State Property. As far as I understand it, Minister Goran Maric is his view that inactive state property, the resources at local level should actually be localised, that local people will know best how to function. In this way, we are actually centralised all over again that any entrepreneur who comes must come to the Ministry of State Property, go through all this procedure instead of perhaps on the ground itself with the support of local self-government even faster and more quality into its projects, so here you would be looking here in some way to agree with the ministry who is the bearer of development. I believe that as far as entrepreneurship and the desire to create jobs are concerned, the most interesting side is the local self-government and the local self-government that wants to be as effective as possible. This way, we may unnecessarily burden this whole cycle. What I'd like to do among the things that we think are problematic is change related to investing in logistics distribution centres. So far, there has been a provision that I can be with manufacturing processing activities, and now that provision is being abolished. Is the ministry's position that someone can work I'll tell the warehouse because the logistics-distribution center as much as we describe it is actually a slightly better equipped warehouse can build and some trading entity and we'll support it. So we with this consciously enable the trade, the trade chains to build logistics distribution centers, and we touch it. I think it's a little bit over the scales, because in the end, if I say trade works out, we have a number of examples, we have a law on unfair commercial practice where we want it to develop. But is it really our intention and so I ask where it is in the strategic document that we are helping some third I would say industry or activities or sectors that are not productively processed. I'd like to say, now I've also mentioned a key observation that I don't know why you're trying to cover up, and it's about investment, about supporting investment in golf courses. In the very clarification of Article 7 in which golf is inserted as a value added activity, you have not mentioned an explanation in a single word. So we have an explanation for everything. We have an explanation in order for everything. Type into this is the search engine only in the document itself. In one place, golf is mentioned in an article where it is so unobtrusively quietly inserted, and we are actually creating a project out of golf of a particularly added value. And then we'll have a golf course against which a number of Dubrovnik residents and environments have observations not only seem to enable, but we'll further touch them from the state budget. Whether it is communicated with the Croatian public, whether they are familiar with people where they have problems with such projects that the Ministry of Economy plans to give additional funds to invest in such content. I would ask here, until the next reading in the clarification of the law, to state the reasons for supporting precisely these projects so that we know what the ministry's position is not to turn out that it may have accidentally entered such a provision, so that it turns out to be a mistake. I doubt it's a mistake, but here I'm asking once again for the Ministry to question that provision and to really clarify. What I have not seen in your proposal yet, which is a great desire to help assisted areas, to help through the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem areas that are going back, I have not seen a single proposal that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to invest in assisted areas as part of the support of this law. Whether we are conscious of this and the Ministry and the Government are aware of the need to give the same relief to all interested investors, or should it be seen for assisted areas that the support intensity is greater, that motivation is greater, that investment happens in one Vukovar, that it is not the same to invest in Zagreb where it will be much simpler than one Vukovar, Sinj, Knin or any other area that has difficult management conditions. I think we need to be, to have a common position, that we need to help actively invest in these areas, that only certain passive tax measures after the investment has arisen are not enough. Here we hear about the desire and the city of Vukovar, wants special conditions, wants to help means that they are made easier, to help increase the deminimism of support. I don't read it in this law, I don't see at all the intensity of whether it's just the goal of being an oasis, maybe the city of Vukovar and everything else to fail. Therefore, I ask you to consider once again making concessions for assisted areas, to find a proportionate model for every entrepreneur who wants to risk it, I will say take a risk and go to such an area to provide adequate support. So I'm stressing again. Logistic-distribution malls for trade are unacceptable for us. Help golf courses too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62055	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62056	At the beginning of the debate, an esteemed colleague of mine pointed out the importance of this law and compared today's session with yesterday's. While there was pounding on the benches yesterday, someone on the ground, on construction sites, in cities, using these very funds was building, creating, thinking, thinking, investing, going into some kind of risk of building and opening new jobs. You asked if anyone saw the impact assessment. I've seen not only the impact assessment but also the effect. I invite you to come down to me. The measures taken by the government, the funds given to the economies, are now being built in the area by over 30 halls. The result of all this will be about a thousand jobs. But it's not just the effect of those new future jobs. The effect is much greater in something else. When it starts to invest, when investment is considered, jobs are already hired, the designers are already there, the geodetics are already there, already the cycle of development has turned there, the cycle of the economy. Before the hall is built, the construction operation prepares the terrain, it builds. The whole army of jobs is occupied in building something like that. What should be particularly highlighted, but also warned when granting funds what I would personally like with my businessmen in the area and so on throughout Croatia, that the economic operator, at the moment when he submits all the documentation, has security and some kind of time-limit that will be pre-detectable when these funds will be provided and that enough resources will be provided in the budget for all those who will be approved. If it didn't happen for the investor to go into construction, that's the kind of case we had for some of them, I know they're already in the realisation of the project and there's not enough insurance. And that was the topic we were supposed to talk about yesterday when we talked about the budget, but we didn't talk about it. We haven't talked about these key, important things that are so important to the development of the future of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62057	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62058	Thank you very much colleague for your comments, but I would really like to make this clear if you hadn't been able to impose yourself yesterday and open that topic and comment on the budget itself. I would return here to this very bill of law and agree that, of course, any construction is good and that's where the number of people is engaged. But when you look just here in your government's proposal to increase the number of foreign workers in Croatia to the components of the sector the most coming. Right in the building room. So our resources help. A single golf project because we have foreign workers working on it, it would be me, it might be a cartoon, but it actually works out that way. So we failed to hire our own workers, our own companies, but we end up using import labour. I mean, it's a tragedy that arises. I actually said here we support, of course, that the expansion of the support, however, that what is missing refers to two cases that we consider controversial, and that is to support that a certain chain of commerce can build its own warehouse with the support of state money. And the second is that the investor golf is considered special as an investment with a special added value that we will, with all the recommendations in society at the end... to abolish the Golf Act that was and with all the recommendations in society we will further encourage it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we've abolished one law, and we've added funds to it. We come in a little bit illogically. Then I'd say let's give it back, give that law let it argue, and then these means that are being provided can be acceptable as such you bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62059	The next replica is the esteemed vice president of this House, the esteemed Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62060	I thank the chairman. Mr. Panenic, this honestly seems to me like we're... a promised country because every once in a while there are some whims about the incentive that it's amazing. I remember at one point when Mr. Jakovcic came from nearby and Mr. Klaric explained that the quality of life is measured by the number of golf courses. So I just don't understand why Croatia is so specific that every five years the conditions change, so we're great for this, great for this, and then in this whole law we have a series of things that we should encourage the type of ski resort, we have Janica Kostelic. We encourage golf courses. But we encourage them the way I see them going against the people who live in that place. Now we have an example of Srd's golf course. So everybody's talking against that golf course, but no, certain political elites want golf on Srd because that's good. Well, I thought it was good what had to be done for the benefit of the citizens who wanted it. My question to you is, is the meaning of this law or the introduction of golf in a way that slowly pushes golf as one of the forms that will be encouraged?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62061	The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62062	Dear colleague Petrov, here's what I can only say, that this law will become a lex golfer. So there's no more lex golf than there is now a new lex golf where things we give real support. What I said about assisted areas I didn't see any more golf projects that would happen in some assisted area somewhere further, but we see all happening where there's actually the greatest development and eventually we're going to finance it all together. But it bothers me when it goes to cover it up. So if just one sentence, one single word goes in and we should all raise our hands together and then it turns out that, is the bridge against the Investment Encouragement Act, the expansion of the base that micro-entrepreneurs get the opportunity to spend money, to increase investment, to make state property, of course we are. But why is it that every time we go abuse our good will and throw in such a one that we say a delicate problem like golfing and avoid public debate from it? How many people notice golfing? How much of this has been discussed? I'm only when I read the proposal when he came from the government then I stayed actually amazed, so it's not possible, it's not like someone's trying to get through it again. Let's put more on the subject of the golf law, if he wants to rule that they have a golf law, then let them make such a proposal, so let them also secure the funding that will be. But don't put under the Investment Encouragement Act a provision that is controversial to citizens in whose territory it is happening. It will be as controversial to us as politicians who should debate and ultimately make a decision on this law. And in the end, what do we tell those who are there in Srd, what should we tell them? Here, we're sorry, but it's doing a bigger gain that many entrepreneurs will have, unfortunately, you've had to get hurt. It's easier to put an end to it and change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62063	Thank you. Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62064	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Panenic, I expected an immediate answer from the secretary on behalf of the promoter because you said that golf is only mentioned in one word, without explanation and everything else has an explanation. So this is a classic prank. We should read more well there are some other pranks, it's very good your question, so these are areas, undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia, which gives this law to these areas, which are subsidies to investors? You're saying you haven't seen one, here I'm asking the Proposer, some kind of incentive special to areas, special areas of Vukovar, Sinj, Drniš, no matter, that those areas that are clear and where people move from, only golf and you've noticed it well, golfing against whom it means down, citizens who live because they're going to create bad living conditions, people have a different perspective, and besides, the state is going to encourage them and subsidize them and the public doesn't know about it. And that's the incorrection. It would be correct to write golf courses and give an explanation, and that's your attitude, like this, in disguise. And I am very interested in the name of these projects where the husband of Minister Buric participates, and the chairman of the Committee for Strategic Investments is Minister Mrs Dalic, is he perhaps hiding... Peru's thermal power plant, we're going to have to do well, but it's obviously just a law for pranks and not for citizens and for the development of entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why 2/3 of the Croatian secretaries are empty, because of such decisions and pranks as at this time golf course. And these are the shameful laws that suit stakeholders against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62065	Thank you. Something will say, dear representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62066	Okay, here's my comment. My colleague Bulj, the great funds and Croatian budgets and funds have been invested in numerous business areas especially in assisted areas. Today we can see that many are empty because our tax policy, our investment incentive policy was not enough. So we just built a infrastructure and we meant someone would come alone and that's why I miss that and in this law we don't see there either, I don't know here's one municipality of Lovas that has a vacant zone, not one municipality of Gradity or any other, I'm counting now from my county where I'd like to see a number of investors who are trying to start their own business venture there but we didn't see that coming. So we just didn't give anyone motive to come to us. And those who are interested in golf, we allow them to even look forward to saying there will be more resources. I'm asking if then, here's what you mentioned about Peru, then you don't mention it taxfully here but actually, are we clear, do we have a strategy so we should list what we want to help out there? If it says there we want to help, encourage investment in business zones, then it should be who goes into the investment zone, that's where we want them to show up. In this way we are not consistent, we simply do not show as a society our picture and the image actually creates a government that proposes such laws, which we want to accept with all the burdens that come, with new non-taxable accusations, I do not see from this that any entrepreneur in my county and I do not see there either there nor there in your area investing their resources to get support. It is easier for him in one Zagreb or there in Istria where he will build or on Srdj if he plans a golf course.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62067	Thank you. And he has a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62068	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenić, as soon as you mentioned Slavonia I had a need to replicate you. In fact, I personally think that the problem is, we talked about the budget yesterday, a while ago we talked about the OPG Act, and when you mention the impact assessment, the regulations, what this law is supposed to say, in this part when we talk about logistics and distribution centres, then I totally agree with you. It is pointless to encourage investment from those centres that will encourage consumption in the way that goods are coming. We have problems with the foreign trade deficit and we need to encourage those investments that will help export and help distribute products that our OPGs produce. So instead of logistics and distribution centres, we better encourage logistics-repurchase centres, coolants in Slavonia, where various intensive cultures would be encouraged and that would allow as many jobs as possible. You see, even from what I've asked the secretary of state, it means small and medium-sized enterprises are opening more jobs with less resources than large ones. And that's the key. And that's why I think you're right when you say we should see which way we're going because if we really want the economic growth that's based on production, then we have to think about it that way. If we just think about spending and by encouraging logistics and distribution centres, we won't get far, then it's a trap that we're walking into today when we can't even lower the VAT rate precisely because the economy is based on the consumption of imported goods. And that's the problem. So it is very important to assess in which direction we are going and what we will encourage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62069	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62070	Thank you very much. Comrade Žagar, we seem to have this theme of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, here's a big problem for you and I, because we listen to the public on Tuesday, here's the session that was, where the ministers were coming, where they talk about how everyone in their portfolio will encourage the development of our particular area of living, then we come here and watch a law where there is no law. So there's not a single word and then let's understand a little bit for PR when someone is supporting assisted areas through any form of display, so take out a little bit of that and show this is the Slavonia project, let's say this is a promotion and that's how political points are obtained. However, I cannot understand when we have a law in which we should at least support the areas. For me, I've been assisted by the area, and it's also in Lica, and wherever there's a problem area, and I need to help them, and there's not one trace here, not a voice, except for that state property that's inactive. If she's inactive by now, will that change my place? It's hardly gonna change. I'd rather have a real entrepreneur come and invest in a business zone of any kind nearby, create jobs and get support for it, then we'd have a real investment promotion law and we could say, here and it's an integral part of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. This is how it's just fiction. And unfortunately, it makes it difficult for us as parliamentary representatives in the field at all when we come to talk about what's well done for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, because unfortunately I'll have to say, there's nothing in this law for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62071	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Orsat Milenic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62072	State Secretary, I welcome you all. My colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'll talk about Agrokor and the link. I'm kidding. So this is the law that we will support in our first reading. Everything that can help improve investment in Croatia, create jobs is welcome and the law contains a series I would say good changes that should help in this direction. So I'm not going to brag about what's good. I'm going to point out maybe a few questions that would be good to consider, some are general, some are more specific. So I'm building up here, maybe I've miscalculated and methodologically, but if we're giving almost 30 billion so much is predicted for 17,000 jobs a little bit more, then it's almost a million and 700 thousand kuna per job. Well, that's something I say if I'm not methodologically playing ball, then that's something I'm very worried about. Because I think we're at a level and on some scale of effective countries how much one job costs, because it makes it very easy to calculate that we're here at the bottom. And that's something we need to talk about. And it should be one of the parameters of the measurement of the success of this law. If I haven't made a mistake, I'm building up again, but if we're paying almost a million and 700 thousand kuna for one job, that's about 7.8 years 20 thousand kuna gross for that job. So that's what we're giving, and that's where I'd like us all to take a step back together. I'm not speaking ruling here right now. We are here together and the ruling and the opposition must have the same interest. That's for the less or better to say that we have the better effect of this law, it's in everyone's best interest. And I don't think a million and 700 grand for a job is a good effect. And this law that we have passed in our time. So, I repeat, it has nothing to do with each other. Why am I saying that? Because we don't really change enough on that trail in law. At least I don't see any major changes. And if we stay so much spending on one job, I don't think we'll be able to consider this law effective. Because let's simplify. I'm simplifying again, because I say, I'm from another profession. But let's now offer a man a million and 700 grand on the road, how many people do you think he's hired and how long? A million and 700 grand, and that's what we're giving here. So let's think about it and even think about the system that we have that gave us some results at all. But I'm asking you, how much did it cost us? And how much will it cost us in the future and what do we have to do to get better results to cost less? So that's something that's a strategic thing and that's very measurable. And there we can sit and measure with any other European country. And I've been reading data somewhere, data on how much the job costs, and with higher wages, it's less than this. And here we all have a problem together. I'm not going in now and it's not about this law, and the price of work, and the fees, and the taxes, etc. But we have a problem. This is your best indicator, which means to invest in Croatia and how much is paid in one job. So, as far as I'm concerned, this has been one principled remark, and I think it would be good for you to work this data out a little bit, if I can recommend it, because that's important. I repeat, I hope I'm wrong again. But if I'm not mistaken, give me a little explanation, compare it with some other countries to see where we are. Because if this is true, then we're very, very bad and no one can say that's good. Another thing, as far as law itself is concerned, a few more specific things. First, I would suggest that you develop this system referred to in Article 22 on information publicly available and published. So he exists there. But if we give incentives, and as I said now we give a million and 700 thousand kuna to the workplace, then it's important to make it public. So now the public announcement is scheduled. But what I'm interested in and I think what the citizens of this country would have the right to know because they're paying out of their budget, is to connect it to the result. So, not only do we know how much who got and where he got, but to know what happened on a concrete, concrete project through his lifetime. And that should be a data that will be very simple to everyone available means online. You go and you see it cost so much, we get it and we get it. The next year, there was a change in one direction or another. So that's one follow-up where we can tell for every project what we've got. And it's not enough to know who got it. Just so you know, we need to know what's going on in this project's lifetime. So that was my suggestion to raise quality, to increase on the one hand if you want to pressure people who get the incentive to do even better to see what we've done. It would also create pressure on the state administration that manages these funds until it lets us see what it's given for. Namely, all countries and one trend, all countries are fighting and competing to create a better investment climate. And that's justifiable, that's something everyone does. But I'm saying, if we're doing it, if we're paying to control what, how and make it as public as possible so that we've all just given so much, we got what we got for it. I'd point out something that I think is important, and I'm linking it to this data release. So, precisely because of this activation of the state and even state-owned real estate, I think it's more important to make this information public because you're also predicting the possibility of buying after 10 years and I want to know, but not me like me, but as a citizen of this country, like everyone else, what happened to that project, at which price was estimated and at what price it goes to and to be public and to be available practically on click. You'll have a much cleaner situation in the ministry. All the people who decide will be very simple to follow right away. She doesn't have a story about what happened. So that's the suggestion. Here, of course, yesterday was the subject of the budget, here's a colleague of mine saying it would be better if we talked about the budget than we did, talking about other topics. We talked about the budget. We'll talk more. I'm just going to say here a cartoon that has nothing to do with this, but it will affect the implementation of this law, which is a drastic reduction of the resources to edit land books in the draft budget. So you're going to activate the country here, and the funds are being reduced, and I mean 2/3 to solve the issue of land books. It won't work. Whatever you're telling me, writing again, that's not gonna work. So in the context of what you can think about how much influence you can have, but those land-booking funds must be bigger if you want to implement this law. Otherwise nothing will happen. There's just an empty letter on the paper. My colleagues mentioned the question of golf. I agree not to encourage golf. That's what we need to talk about. But it's something that's gotten all of us in the ear as a possible problem. If you mention it here explain why, what it means to achieve or not to be achieved. Simply in Croatian society, it began to wear a negative connotation. Why not if it brings new jobs if it brings some kind of benefit? But if you're putting golf in this law specifically, give us some reason to see why, why golf and not something else? Why not tennis? Tennis tourism. I mean, do you understand? Logistic-distribution centres, I'm not sure we're the country that needs to encourage that kind of activity in this way and I'm not sure if it's in the final version of the law that we're going to be able to support it that way. One is production. It's one thing to create a new value, another to encourage trade, to resell. I think we have this kind of trade so well developed and it's so good that it doesn't need any new incentives. So I'm not sure that the funds should go in that direction towards the expense of any production. So, another one if you go with it, give us a better explanation to see what you want with it. Because the way it's put in, it's not acceptable. I would suggest raising the number of jobs expected as an effect because that's what we're looking for. Even this when we talk about a million and 700 thousand kuna per job, let's increase it as a condition that the project must bring, and then that price of one job will be somewhat lower and the effects will be higher. Because it's shrinking here in a few places. That also applies to micro-entrepreneurs. So now we're raising instead of one year to three. I'm not sure that's the right approach. Someone who can't raise to three right now and get these funds, I'm not sure they'll justify it in the long run. So that's also something I suggest you consider. And that would be more or less. So the law in general is yes. We need to encourage investment. We should compete with others in that area. Every job that opens up is open, but let's figure out how much it costs us, and it costs us a lot. It's supposed to be a measure of success. Not how many we opened, but how much it cost. Because maybe there's a better way to open up with the same money. Secondly, all the data you can be give them to the public. The project must be monitored in public life and the project must be available to everyone because it is public money. So not just who got the project, but what's going on with it. This is what I told you about land books and these things that concern the law itself. This, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62073	Thank you. There's more replicas to your exposure. He's the first respected representative of Dark Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62074	Thank you, Vice President. Well, with a few good findings, I agree that good solutions should not be praised, because good solutions are in themselves good solutions. But I'd just look back on really one of your misunderstandings in the fact that when you're apostrophe without listening to the State Secretary's explanation that opening 17,000 jobs is going to cost the state 31 billion. So, from this pay phone, you said that on average the country's place of work is about a million and 700 thousand kuna. Unfortunately, though, or fortunately, what is a fact, through the application of nearly 600 entrepreneurs, they made a commitment to invest 31 billion jobs with the use of subsidies and to open 17 thousand jobs. And let us finally end the demagogy that every job, job and every job is a desirable job in the Republic of Croatia. These investments, which are primarily aimed at the manufacturing and manufacturing industry, have expensive investment because they are investments in fixed assets, so these are not services, this is not a trade, these are investments in production, and every investment in production when it comes to comparing with investment in service or anything else is several times more expensive, so the workplace is more expensive, but far, far more desirable than any other. And what's the fact in that fiscal effect of this law is that every invested kuna from the state budget in such a subsidy three times turns the same kuna and returns three times to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62075	The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62076	Well, we're a colleague on a very similar trail, so maybe you weren't listening to me again when I was talking. I wasn't talking about how much we pay, I was talking about how much it costs, and I said that we as a state have to think about how much it costs us one job and if we're less competitive than the rest of us that we're in trouble. Of course, part of it carries itself as an entrepreneur, part of it if we let him through the law incentivize, goes through it. So that's something where you measure yourself with others. And I also fenced myself that it was my reading and that it would be good if we had that joy in the law because that's what's important. You want to attract someone, you need to tell him ok. with us it'll cost you an average of that and so much, by law you can get so much, so you know you worked you needed that calculation. What you said about dividing into manufacturing and this other one, I also agree. That's why I intervened in this direction that we should consider whether we should encourage this distribution logistics segment or be held back, which is now spreading by law, or whether we should keep ourselves primarily in the product. And here I fully agree with you, it's not the same investment, and even less to be the same effect. And I'm also going to add to what you said is not the same where the job is because where you miss them and otherwise where you can have some better effect on the wider community, they're even more welcome there. So there's this whole series of things, and that's why I said I'm not going to talk about what's good, which I support in principle, but I'm going to highlight these things. If I didn't understand something, they wouldn't understand the citizens either. That's why the law is better explained in that direction. So I said until the second reading these are some of the things that I'm asking you to work out to pay attention to them and see some better explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62077	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62078	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milenić. So you rightly asked a job-related question, however, although here in the law, it is actually envisaged to open jobs. When we talk about the development of the economy then encouraging the economy or investing in encouraging the economy that the state gives should always be pursued through the development of economic activities itself, and jobs are indirectly derived from this. For example. If you vertically support the auto-industry, then you can't really assess at that point how many jobs there will be, but in the end it turns out to be much more than they even estimated because a lot of other industries are connected to the auto-industry. In that sense, I hope that these numbers that talk about jobs will be much bigger so it won't be as you say it is because it doesn't have to be a concrete goal. Or on the other hand, if we look at the structure of the Croatian economy when we talk about exports which is one of the generators of economic growth just 7% of the structure of exports is high-tech goods you watch in the Republic, it's a very low percentage. And for this reason, they may not have to open up a lot of jobs these incentives, but let them then open up the production of high value added goods, and this will reflect the growth of the economy, which will then generate later by opening other jobs. And that's why I'm saying it's important, it's important to me that the Ministry of Economy estimates that these branches are, which is the structure of the economy in which branches should invest most to develop the economy. Here's when I mentioned the auto-industry of the Republic of Croatia has no auto-industry except for Mr. Roman who goes with these projects. So maybe it's an opportunity to develop a particular industry that's going to be self-industry because we're protecting the industry that we don't have, I mean those taxes on the purchase of vehicles, and I don't know what not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62079	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62080	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Milenić, here I had a need to replicate because you generally took the cost of a job. So we can't put all sectors in one category and then divide it by the number of jobs. Certain sectors require much more investment to create a job, but then the impact through profit is seen, through VAT, through the long-term exploitation of the job itself, through the sustainability of the market etc., etc. So that's a little general, I'm not going to say it's populist because it's hard to approach it like that in this whole story right now. But we need to be careful when we say how much one job costs. In tourism you can have one job in service, buy one table of that popcorn machine or make pancakes and you have one job open. So we have to understand that one job has one sectoral weight. That was on the way. But what I have come across in the right sense for the replica, that is precisely what Article 7 said will be encouraged among other projects of catering and tourist facilities Hotel Bastina's difuzni hotel etc., etc. So we didn't say anywhere that the classic hotel would be encouraged. And why do I say that? Because we are already in some way damaged through competitiveness because EU funds no longer recognise the financing of our tourist facilities, I am talking about hotels, and now we have come back to the situation that all different types of hotels will have support on them, and to what is the most income generated by the right. I also have to say that only 20%, you have to know, 20%, if it's about Hotel Bastina, if you're doing a reconstruction of someone, Some [[Intruder Rainer: It's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62081	Here's a response from the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62082	Thank you very much. So, first of all, as far as the price is concerned, I can agree with you, of course it's not the same. I took what's there, I just wanted to point out we're going with the law outside, let's get some numbers until the next reading that we might be able to get these parameters a little closer to ourselves, because they're extremely important. Now you mention the tourism industry. Well we're also more competitive or more or less competitive and one of the parameters is both the price of work, not only work but also jobs, meaning what is invested, which is obtained through it, etc., so that's something that matters to us. What you're saying is, I think if we're spreading and we're saying we're missing certain, let's say our kind of hotels say, mention, we're actually closing our own way of investment and what's been coming back to us the fastest and the best possible way. And that's one of the things that needs to be done by the second reading. If it comes out, give us an explanation why it's coming out. That's it, first reading is so we can work it out, it's time to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62083	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62084	Dear colleague, we're listening, I didn't get involved in the whole debate this morning, but we've been listening to the same mantra for weeks about economic development, progress, etc. But do we read anything anyone else says about us? Here's six, seven months ago, I read a report from an Austrian company that repeats the same thing we see that we're not talking about here because this is a closed circle, we're fighting between ourselves, there's no solution. What they were talking about, first, this red tape from the former system that generates corruption, they talk about liquidity, untrained workforce that at all, our workforce is not at all compatible with the modern economic system. We inherited a gray economy from the former state, we experts don't have for some businesses, we're short on that. We are talking about the gray economy, Croatia is, I think, Italy 25% of GDP is lost in the gray economy, in Croatia about 30%. All those lessons learned, it's a simple process learned lesson, that's what all the armies do. What did we learn? We're just repeating the same thing over and over again. That's what the blogger Krule and Grandma Wang sees, too, what's going on here. What are these investments you tell me blue-chip investments, greenfield investments in Croatia for the last 10 years, aquis? The Toyota factory was supposed to be in a person who is now completely empty. You know where he is now? In Czech Republic. Why? For the inertness of the people here. A man came from Canada, there were 2,000 jobs. If this doesn't work out, these causes of this problem, our disease, we're not going anywhere. 80% of complaints to this Board of Appeals and Presentations are legal, we live and work in a legal vacuum. This isn't a state-of-the-art. We were 10 years old, 30 years old to make independent institutions, we haven't done that yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62085	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62086	Here, I guess because it's afternoon, and then we're in a little more conciliant tone, and I have to agree with you in the good part of what you've been up to. So, yes, none of us can be satisfied with the state of public institutions, state institutions, general public with let's talk about efficiency again. Now, if we were to pull out how much this one job in the state or public administration costs, and what we get for it, we wouldn't be on top of it, something tells me to be at the bottom of the ladder, competitiveness. And that's something we have in common. We all live in this country, we didn't take advantage of a whole series of opportunities that opened up to us. The last was to join the EU, we did not make the most of it. We see the rise of the state administration every day, I won't even talk about the local level and we don't even wonder who's going to pay for it. We lose people who pay taxes and get people who live off taxes. In the long run it won't work, the low interest period will end sooner or later, I'm afraid sooner. And then we'll all be in trouble together. Unfortunately, we've already been through these situations in this country, we haven't learned anything. We haven't learned that at a time when you have a little bit more then you need to cut a little bit and squeeze that when you get into a situation you can't live out of it. The hardest thing to do is to make reformist moves like that when it's gone. And that's if you want my biggest grudge to this government. We now have very good economic indicators, we have no reform. And that's a big problem, it's a waste of time. It's been a year, we haven't seen anything. I hope, it's in everyone's interest, there's no partying here now, it's in everyone's interest to start moving something on that plan. Because now we can, and when the interest increases, eventually the crisis comes and sooner or later, then we really won't be able to, and we'll be in an even bigger problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62087	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62088	Dear fellow, first of all, congratulations and commendation on the constructiveity in the work where you said you would support this law in the first reading. And for the replica, I actually came forward for a reason because you pointed out the logistics distribution center. And this is what I'm going to tell you from personal experience because operationally from day to day, practically every single day of my free time I'm on construction sites and I'm looking at how things are being created and developed that in an economy without each other can't. So we can encourage, let's make it our priority to produce, but believe that whoever manufactures it has to store it somewhere, it's got to paint it somewhere, it's got to put it somewhere, it's got to distribute it somewhere else. And if you're thinking strategically, then you need to cover all these segments. In this part of the beginning of the debate, we heard the demagogue of a group of our colleagues where you got out of the law just one word of golf course. What's wrong with that, if it generates a job, if it generates income to the state, and if a landscape that's grown with maquis, a stonesmith, is not useful for other things? But if we put something wrong, we criticize it, so we criticize why we're going to make the trade more potent. And the store is so important, because whoever makes the cartoon lamp he's got to expose her somewhere, he's got to sell it somewhere. If he's exporting it out, then he's got to have that logistics-distribution center. I say that for a reason because I know it very well, because I watch it every day. Here is the port of Rijeka now doing a huge logistics-distribution centre, it simply has to have it and it is a good move next to it and next to it, and Croatia has so much space not used to build such things from manufacturing halls, factories, warehouses, logistics-distribution centres, golf courses, everything else that is simply amazing to watch it all go down. and choke on the long-term red tape. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62089	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62090	Thank you very much. So the two segments you've opened. As for golf, I didn't say so you heard that we were against it, but what I said was that because of a connotation that came in over the years that we should have a good explanation that's expected through it, why it comes in specifically on the trail of what you've just given. This is the law, let's explain it in the right way so that every citizen here is clear what they want to achieve without any other association that we've already listened to today. So that's something. It's not just what you write, it's how you explain it. So my remark went into it, I didn't say we're priors against it, but let's get an explanation why it's there. No problem at all. The same goes for these centers you were talking about. Let's also connect them in this way you said. Perhaps it can be worked out in the law that they are connected to some manufacturing activity, not to end up in clean trade, importing and reselling, but to end up exactly connected to something that was produced here. Well, it's normal that it has to be stored, distributed, etc. And we'll all support that. But when you smoke, when you get just like this without, then normally you smoke cold because it's one thing to invest and give an incentive to import and resell, and the other thing is to give a boost to what's produced and what might be stimulated through the law further distributes or, let's say, through some freezer storage, goes on. We'll absolutely support that. So let's work it out, so first reading is, but let's work it out. I have pointed out that these are potentially weaker points where more work can be done and better developed in law. Thank you very much for your observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62091	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, the Honorable Representative of Tulio Demetlika will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62092	... A positive atmosphere in the Parliament as soon as the economic development is discussed, the creation of new jobs, the incentives rather than the apportionment. [[Specially enabled.]] And that is why the respected Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs today, when this law is on the agenda to encourage investments that should contribute to the increase of realised investment projects especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and to the economic activation of inactive state-owned assets, then we in IDS, PGS and RI are particularly happy when it comes to the agenda. And I will join my colleague Milenić that we too will support a law like this that will certainly contribute to the acceleration of the installation of this state property that is not in office. And at the very beginning, I certainly want to commend part of the law relating to allowing small and micro entrepreneurs to be eligible for the promotion of investment to be recognised and the acquisition of second-hand equipment up to a maximum of five years of age. It's certainly one step ahead of the previous law, because we know it wasn't the case so far. ... accepted only projects in which new equipment was supplied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why this is a positive change because we are aware that everyone does not have large initial capital or crafts to buy exclusively new equipment that, in the case of the purchase of machinery or information equipment, can achieve very large amounts that the entrepreneur needs to allocate. The second thing we also want to praise is an amendment that allows for the use of incentives in an information and communication industry that has so far not been able to benefit significantly. It is certainly also a step forward towards building a modern business environment. And now we come to the third paper in the law regarding the possibility of private entrepreneurs using inactive state property through the Ministry of State Assets. That newspaper is what I said about us really here's one I'm gonna say call a little revolutionary. However, we also see some problems. I will say that, by virtue of these amendments to the law, private entrepreneurs will be able to contact the Ministry of State Property and demand the use of inactive state property under the prescribed conditions to be met. Now here I see a problem in realising the project itself. You will be referred from the Ministry of Economy of Entrepreneurs at the Ministry of State Property and the Ministry of State Property see some positive results lately with them. But they'll run into problems because they don't even know where that hall is, or where the land is, they still don't know. And then there's a slow red tape in that ministry. And there's that proposal of ours, which as IDS, we keep saying, that this property which is not of interest to the Republic of Croatia to be transferred to the management of the local self-government unit where it is located and that this entrepreneur is not coming to Zagreb but to come to the mayor or mayor or mayor in that local colleague Tomislav Speaker, is not understood./... that they are then taking all steps that are predicted and then let the Ministry of State Property manage the state property, let him have control mechanisms and let them control that unit of local self-government do so. Next thing you know, it happens to you that when you come to the Ministry of State Property Management, then you have bureaucrats, lawyers out of fear of seeking political responsibility again as often in this House and asking for it, whether someone has guessed or if someone has encouraged someone and then that doesn't happen to us in 10 years after the end of these contracts that they're going to have about renting that building, land or whatever state property, so they don't have any new Agroctors again. So here as IDS we're referring to a potential problem where there would be an obstacle so that the law you're proposing couldn't be implemented. Investment in the economy and attracting new investments have been said that this is a guarantee of faster development which contributes to the creation of new jobs and thus indirectly meet all the needs of our society, I will say from demographics, education, education, culture, sports. So every step the Ministry of Economy takes in this direction is certainly to praise, but it is not enough for the ministry to do that part of the job alone. We stress that the Ministry of Finance must do its part, that it must surely bring new tax reliefs in order for workers to benefit from it, which will see normally on the increase and insurance of decent salaries. This topic certainly shows another example where close cooperation of the mentioned Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, should be achieved, but then I will mention two other ministries. It is the Ministry of State Property and the third may be surprising, but also the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. I know of one example, the famous factory of Raša, which, after closing in 2000 and trying to put into office by an entrepreneur from Slovenia, came into bankruptcy and since he was not in line with the pension fund, today he owns the Ministry of Labour and Pension System i.e. Employment office. They've made an assessment of that property, it's worth 23 million kuna, the entrepreneur comes in, estimates it's worth 5 or 6 and that's how it's costing you 20 years and it's going down. So with these ministries that simply have no hearing, they don't want to get into the field, they don't want to see the situation, with the law passed by the Ministry of Economy, I don't see if these others include a solution to put that property back into operation. However, here, regardless of these problems that I have cited, another key point that plagues us from IDS, PGS and LRI of this law is the territorial restriction. I'm not going to say discrimination, but the fact is that there's a territorial restriction to obtaining a right to incentives. In your proposal for a law, it makes it impossible for private entrepreneurs from as many as 292 units of local self-government to seek it. to enable them to use inactive state property because you said in the bill that this applies only to assisted areas of the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm asking a public one question. What's the difference between one of the first ones in Rasha and one of the Borovo factories in Vukovar? If there is an interest of entrepreneurs, a private entrepreneur to invest in that factory and start 50 jobs and stand there empty, then we do really discrimination between assisted areas and I will say, unsupported areas. I think you need to change that in law. Because if not, from the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County, you do not have a single unit of local self-government that falls within it and simply in that area will not be able to achieve these incentives from the economy. And maybe someone will think that in these areas there is no unused state property, but I have set an example of having and asking you to take care of it, because these are primarily factory halls and large surfaces that have failed and rotted and the state has been missing them for years. Previously, someone mentioned tourism and tourism related to tourism or putting on a hotel that is also in a derivative state is not involved. Think about it because the hotel is a kind of economy even though for 20 years, I don't know, in Crikvenica or Opatija it's empty, why it's not allowed to function and benefit both the state and local self-government. Therefore, the IDS, PGS and LRI are asking the applicant to remove a territorial obstacle in the final proposal for legislation to apply for a tender in terms of restrictions only on entrepreneurs from assisted areas and to extend the lease support to entrepreneurs from the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And here we'll even suggest because you only have one option, means they don't pay a monthly rent for 10 years at all, even if they get two options, means they're being charged a monthly rent, but after 10 years, the amount they paid for 10 years is deducted from the price that was estimated. And you'll see what problems you'll have in your judgments. And in the end, I want to say that there is no point in leaving a large number of units of local self-government out of these measures and letting state property in these areas continue to fail. These are valuable buildings, agricultural land that need to be used to strengthen entrepreneurship and create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62093	Thank you very much. We also have on your presentation of multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62094	Dear colleague, it's good to talk this way about this law just like you said. It's a shame there's no more people to talk about it, and it's a shame it's not a Parliament full of this. And the greatest benefit of this law is, among other things, what you mentioned that raises the question of this state property. And you and I who have been doing it for years know that the state has no idea what it has and where it has. All these investors, all those who are on this bill, all who are going to run for some kind of investment, where are they coming from? Some kind of city or some kind of community. What's he gonna build on? On something that these cities and municipalities have done, the water lines, the sewers, the plateaus, they've brought infrastructure to build at all. And then we come to absurdity. And that's why I got up, and that's why it's good to talk about this state property. If we say that the spatial plans of skirts and scissors, if on the spatial plans of cities and municipalities gave consent to the county, gave consent to the state through its ministry and adopted a city or municipal council, then that spatial plan is a sacred letter. What's going on? It happens that under some agricultural land law of 91. ... The state attorney's office of land owned by the city or municipality books on the Republic of Croatia, automation and blocking the city or municipality, is blocking that investor who was going to run for this competition and there is a cut to be made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's good to talk about it here and this law because it's a problem. It's a problem that we all feel that we're moving into the realisation of certain projects. And it's good for you to say it, it's good for me to say it on the side of the line, but it's good to get all heads together and solve that problem. Just as I am particularly pleased, so I am glad to be in this House that we are finally changing that unfortunate law that was passed in 2014 where it was decided that 60% of the land must be filled in entrepreneurship areas in order for the state to approve land giving. It's finally changing, I think the bill's over, going to the government and then adopting the Parliament. Because that law was also foolishly blocking cities and municipalities, and I warned of that at the time I was in opposition. Now it's finally changing. And if we don't speak this way as you and I have now spoken in this House, then it won't be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62095	Thank you. Here's the esteemed representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klaric, I don't think you need to be replicated, but I think that 100% in thinking and understanding of the problem we agree on. I will confirm that I am sorry that these topics are no longer interested in the assembly because these are exactly the topics that will help us get out of this situation where we are because we said that the economy is the one that will provide better standards and better lives for all citizens in our country. But you who come from the ruling party are also talking about the State Property Act, and I'm glad when you HDZ say some things should be brought down to a lower level because that entrepreneur is coming to the mayor. And you and I know very well when these businessmen and entrepreneurs came to us, they still came to you, then we drove them to Zagreb and then we knocked on the ministry, i.e. The then DUUDI or what they used to call themselves and beg and through relationships and ties whether we can get to the Minister of Economy and how they can achieve these incentives. And that's where I think we match up and support you there and you're like here little IDS with three parliamentary representatives and we're you, but that's exactly where it gets to decentralisation to be faster and more efficient because we know exactly what they need and what location. And one more good thing you said, the spatial plans we cannot vote at the local level without the consent of the competent ministries. I don't know why when this plan is brought to us someone else has to control and check and for every thing run to Zagreb to seek consent again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62097	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62098	Thank you very much. Here's fellow Tulio, you said one of the big problems is the initial capital of small entrepreneurs. I am now interested in how banks will behave under this law, i.e. how they will make a decision, and how the ministry will behave when we know that a micro-enterprise, a small entrepreneur, will get a boost and at what point the banks will react. You know very well what I'm going to say now that they're going to ask if it's going to go into the equation, so with someone loan further that's going to be serviced from that, and then through the physibilities of the study, they're going to charge for some period that you predicted I don't know 3.5 years from something and how the banks are going to react. So there is a key problem when you will accept your decision that there will be incentives in a particular entrepreneurial venture. This is a crucial moment because from experience we know that they are definitely waiting for the whole solution until the whole solution is obtained, until then they will not be able to take into account the processing of the loan at all. But when some kind of incentive comes, then the terms of credit and then you can get credit and then you've already passed the train many times already. So these are technical problems that are very much, which very often lead to a block of investment, especially in small ones. I know you might say to yourself now, yes, but there are some other instruments through HAMAG, I don't know etc., but there are problems because they don't cover every time and don't take into account what we should get through the next step in the future, and these are the incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62099	Thank you. Dear Representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62100	Here's this replica of Mr. Kleman I realized, however, that it was more directed towards the ministry, but in that part at the very beginning, that you were small investors and small entrepreneurs that were moving really they would have problems. So they'll have a chance to get a certain business space in ten years of use, without paying rents with the possibility of buying after ten years. However, if he wants to launch some production, he needs additional resources, and that space will not be able to pawn whether it is not his property. And what you've noticed is a matter of the ministry, in which way the law will allow someone to invest in someone else's space. So I, as a small entrepreneur, want to invest three million euros in rehabilitation and construction, building this factory hall, and now I'm investing in someone else's property. In what way, that's what I didn't get out of it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62101	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62102	Dear colleague, we're sitting next to each other and we agree on a lot, I think IDS is a small party. You've had a lot of good suggestions here, but it's called this, uh, tactical level in the war. This war is won on a tactical level but bigger plans are being made at a strategic level. Now look here, we have a lot of models here, we have a German model where craftsmen get money from the government to have an educational workforce where we need that workforce, that's what we're missing. In Croatia no one will work with hands, physical work is taboo topic no one is talking about, but in Germany you already have a secure job when you're already in the trade, you get paid and you move on. Yeah, in Canada, let's say 80% of middle-aged businesses have, 80% of people hire in small and medium-sized enterprises. There you'll never hear the government give people a boost, that attitude towards the state isn't like that outside. You're swimming or sinking. Secondly, I mentioned a vacuum in the legal system, we remember a mystery... and the Rijeka Bank is just one example. And economic diplomacy, it may be more for our people from the Ministry of Economy here, the largest business branch in Croatia, the Croatian diaspora $45 billion. What are the investments, where is this economic diplomacy? Where is the strategic framework for these investments? What's going on? If there's no such legal framework... protection of investment no one will come here. In Romania, 70% of people are employed by a relationship. Does that sound familiar? How much is that in Croatia? These are some key problems we have to solve because we haven't gone out yet, as far as I'm concerned,...at that level if we solve that strategic framework. That's what I was gonna say. We are still deep, deep in the extension of communism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62103	Thank you. Dear Representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62104	I thank my colleague Glasnović. General, you said that IDS is a small but stable and strong, constant party. And you know those of you who come from the ranks we'll tell the army, then we learned from the art of warning a famous Chinese writer... who wrote that there somewhere before the birth of Christ, that victory in war should be without sacrifice and that policy is being conducted and IDS. It means so small, but we're gonna keep fighting exactly the way we're looking into the future and not going back to the past. So on this second part of your past I wouldn't be coming back but I'll look to the future that these young people who are going to Ireland today or some other parts of the world, and you've been outside and I've listened to you when you told young people that at home in Croatia is best from their own experience because you've been out there for a long time and we have to work on it, not to burden them with the past because the past of all pains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62105	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62106	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The GLAS and HSU club will support this proposal in the first reading, but we would like to warn that we are not satisfied with a partial approach to resolving a general issue of anti-enterprise climate in Croatia, which is unfortunately not since yesterday, it is the reminisce of one mentality from socialism where every person and successful man was viewed with contempt, spite or jealousy. What exactly is this about, what is our fundamental observation? For several years, the Republic of Croatia has been able to benefit from a whole series of benefits in the development of its economy and from the fact that it is a member of the EU. This can be done on several levels, on the one hand as acquisitions... on the other hand using funds, on the third hand harmonising policies, on the fourth side by opening a larger market. What's the matter with all these possible benefits? Unfortunately, we should record an increase in exports to EU countries, but we have in fact reoriented our export dependence from one country to another. The true state of affairs is seen when data are analysed from the scales on which the general terms of business of investment and the creation of a new value are calculated where we unfortunately fall. So now are we going to lie to each other that it's a matter of methodology, that the thing is that some of the others have invested more however we turn, we're on these scales like that... Business bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only that, if we compare ourselves to others in the EU, first of all, because they must have measured us, we are in very bad positions on all possible lists. The question arises, how is it possible, from war to today, so we're talking about formal 20, 22 years of practically standing a whole generation. They're people who already have tomorrow, if they don't already have their own children. Trapped in the past, unable to change the paradigm, therefore, by looking into the future. I'm a set of topics we deal with, deters all creative people and reduces their good will. So, first of all, we're talking about our own capacities, our own creations, our own abilities, to create something new. In such an atmosphere, few can create, and many go looking for another atmosphere, another environment in which their creation, ambition, ability will be recognized and valued. So when we talk about our success, we have to face the fact that the Republic of Croatia, I say I don't count those years before, because they're wartime, 20 travel years standing in place or stagniating. It is a shame, the shame of all generations that have been standing since then, because in all other desires after the collapse of communism, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, there has been a change of paradigm, only in Croatia is not. It's something that worries, which calls for every government, if you want in a broader sense and a political elite for action. It's about developing a whole set of policies, which actually change the atmosphere, in which a new value needs to be created. Encouraging investment is just one small segment. What's most important? It is hard to say, but it is a cocktail, which can help, that Croatia finally starts to use both its capacities and its resources and its knowledge and attracts other people's knowledge. So the whole thing was a bit of a policy. It's about taking care of land books. It is a more effective judiciary, it is also a reduction of parafiscal but fiscal burdens. It's about the cost of work, the price of work. It is about flexibility in creating new jobs and hiring new people. It's about reducing and creating a more efficient work administration. It's also about digitising procedures. It is about facilitating procedures, setting up, registering and changes in registers when it comes to entrepreneurs. It's about changing the paradigm of the inspection service. Is it normal for you to be punished for 60 kn or for 6 kn in the register, for someone with 60 grand? Is it normal to show muscles on small entrepreneurs such as that, and to those who owe millions, which is tax debt or some other giving, in fact not to condemn them? It's a corrupt society. There is no free entrepreneurship in a corrupt society. It's also about de monopoly. One of the freshest examples, it looks like we're just going to start dealing with too much, is the taxi service issue. When we talk about the cab, we think about everyone else. Equally, it's the development of a concession system. Only to the maritime good Republic, it loses more than 100 million kuna a year of potential concession fees exploited by savages. On the shores of our larger cities in Dalmatia and Istria, neatly in the municipal ports, there is nautical traffic beyond its every rule. In the town of Zadar, there is a large marina, a former marina, a technical comet, a tanker of comets, a pardon that has been working normally for years, even though the company has long gone bankrupt, a concession license expired and no one knows alive, who's killing it, the fees, for commitments in that marina? How is that possible? How is it possible for one marina owner to pay 1 and the other 6? Because it's the discretionary right of the ministry that's responsible for it. Or, if you will, one particular person who has done as he pleases, for a long time and in four generations of different ministers. And they, in their habit, don't say like sheep, after a month when they become ministers start defending the interests of their own bureaucracy, not realizing that it's not about that. And then, within the government, they conflict by defending the interests of bureaucracy, not defending the interests of the government's policy. So that's what this is about. We would like to see, a strong, smart and brave government, which will say we want to develop an entire set of policies that will improve living, business and creating new values. And then the stories of incentives are just one stone in that mosaic. For the last time, as I recall, the government of Jadranka Kosor tried to do something like that, presenting a set of measures. We also lack courage and comprehensiveness in this regard. And to set our goal, we want to do it within three years, within five years of that, within 10 years of that. Like what other countries do. We want to be in better company than we are in. And what do we need for that? And develop a set of measures. And fight in this House for these interests and seek alliance with the opposition. To seek understanding of such things. There is no consensus on everything. Socialists, conservatives, liberals don't think about the same things in the same way, but you need to look for understanding and define what the goal of certain policies is and even those who are against them will understand what it is but then wait around the corner to see what the results are. Well, if the results are good. I can't say anything or honor you, but if the results are gone and we don't have them, then he can say whatever he wants and create a cacophony where only messages that create a new level of depression and drive people out of here are heard. As far as this text is concerned, we welcome every effort by the Ministry of Economy and the Government to break up that forest, to allow for a less barrier to come to a more high-quality job, but we also ask that Croatia have some priorities. And to lead those priorities. Kola Milenic mentioned how much the new job costs, according to these criteria and at the level of investment. Take a closer look at what it says inside, and you'll see that for big entrepreneurs, it costs more. It's all easy to explain -- big entrepreneurs invest in new technologies, they're expensive and they require few workers. More than 2 million kunas cost a job with big entrepreneurs through these projects that we're talking about here. And with kids, it costs a lot lower. I will remind you that in 2016 the most qualitative developments occurred precisely in the micro-entrepreneurship sector. So that is what the European Commission also defines as a company or venture that employs up to 10 workers and has income of up to 15 million kuna or 2 million euros. In this subsector, revenues increased by 26% in 2016. The profits in that segment were up 41% for those who were paying the profits. The number of employees grew 15%, and labour costs increased 17%, which means that even they went up with higher salaries than others. So they have made an extremely good contribution to the growth of our GDP in what they can participate in. Because the truth that deeply hurts, the share of micro and small entrepreneurs in the overall economy in Croatia, seems to me to be 37% of the official data and it is twice as high in the EU. So we have to worry about it. The government must develop a whole set of policies and measures that will bring down barriers that exist in front of existing and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because it is obvious that they create more and better. They too need to open up space because the most happening in this sector is what we call a self-employment phenomenon, which is very important for Croatia, which has too many unemployed people who are hard to hire. A huge number of jobs and services in our most dominant industry, which is tourism, is just lying with small entrepreneurs. Everything about agriculture outside the large PIC systems and the processing industry lies in the small business sector and micro-enterprises. All OPGs are micro entrepreneurs. So obviously at least to us, I hope the Ministry of Economy and the Government that this target group is number one to go to. It raises self-awareness, it's a space to create a new product. This product always goes to the local market first because small entrepreneurs do not have the power for major business procedures that involve exports or at least not very serious. They are unable to produce large batches, large quantities but are able to sell everything they produce locally if it is of quality and value. And if it's compatible with that offer that we have extra and that's an offer to the guests. Here I specifically mean tourism and hospitality. Wherever that happens, take an example of Međimurje. Benefits are always much bigger than expected. Then why don't we build a policy, a successful policy on these examples? We welcome, of course, the position of state property in the function of developing entrepreneurship in such a way that those who rent it for 10 years, i.e. practically without compensation, put it into service. Thank God we remembered. There's so much property in the state that on the last day of the legal period in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia was due to apply for legalisation, I don't know if you knew it, she handed over A4 papers to which she wrote to file for legalisation. There was nothing in it because it was subsequently completed because the assets were not listed. There was no idea which properties were illegal in the construction sense. In this regard, we ask that this policy and image be expanded and that the Government approach this problem more complexly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62107	Thank you. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62108	Now, I'm actually going to try to ask more questions, so through the debate, we can all get together, but also through the Ministry's representatives, we can come up with an answer. So, the first point that we were talking about today was this Law on State Property Management, which perhaps even the most spectacular colleague Klaric said is where the problem is, which problems are produced on the ground but my first question is to all of us, not accusing anyone when this bill will finally come to these benches because he is a generator and a braker of investment in the Republic? With the positive elements of this law on changes and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act, do all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia all units of local self-government have the same chance, equal rights, equal obligation and equal responsibility? If we look at that land being leased to assisted areas, we will come up with a simple calculation that more than 50 units of local administrations and self-government will not get that right. Is this in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and do we really have the same chance and equal rights and equal responsibilities? I understand if it wants to resolve the element of demographicism, but this is certainly not the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62109	The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62110	Comrade Sponza, it is quite clear to you that this is a bill that, because of the tendency to achieve a larger one to say benefit for those regions that are less developed or equated to the development of the region, is only trying to solve this proposal, which is unrealistic. So the fact is that we have state property that's out of service. If we're going to put into office now, just the one that's in the assisted areas, we've done something stupid. How are we going to encourage the other one? What else is she going to be untapped for? And we know that in these areas that are more developed, and that's most units of local and regional self-government, we have a huge number of such properties. The fact that no one was worried about making a register of state property in time, that no one was worried about registering property, here's an example, you know about this story of unspectorous military property, there's real estate that still hasn't been changed in a way that still says it's universal property. Do you believe that from universal ownership, so through social and state property, nothing has been done? And then you now have a situation that if this property changes its purpose, all those who have been taken away from the parcels for its construction have the right to request a return. Five years ago, there were more than 9,000 return requests, none solved. Why? Because politics didn't say let's go solve it and then it stands and then it stops the development of entrepreneurship because if you haven't settled property law, if the land books aren't clean, you don't have anywhere to invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62111	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So listening to both your discussion and your predecessor's colleague, there's basically no big deal about it. However, what such laws should be should be in principle such as some sort of reading that is read below because something simply cannot be interrupted. You well mentioned the 2010 economic recovery programme which has, in a certain way, pulled the brake in those times of recession, but then there was a change of government and it was going to a different model, but nothing was prepared and everything cared about, or if we reflect this on co-operation between the state and the local self-government unit, if there is no synergy there is no success. If the state puts something on the local self-government unit somewhere, it doesn't want it, it's all staring blank. And then I'll end up with my replica on something that was a hit 10, 12 years ago, which is economic zones. In places where the state was giving room to local self-government units, through the Ministry of Economy or some kind of economy, there was a lot of money for infrastructure, and now it's staring everywhere in the air empty. Take an example that we all see on the right, and there's a billing house at Bosilev's, that huge space where the infrastructure was built and all the big economic zone that never even functioned and stared blank. So Croatia has potential, we just need to understand that everyone in the chain of some decision must decide. And another thing, that the world doesn't start and end with me, but the world lives on, no matter who it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62113	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62114	I agree with you that this law should be read as one element of a slightly wider story and book as some story in the below, but what story? That's what this is all about. So I'd like to see a systematic government policy, a programme that will say in the fiscus space, in the parafiscal space, in the space of land books in the area of reduction of local administration, in the space of digitisation of procedures, we'll do it in the next two years. It's our war plan and then this comes as one element. But I don't see it. As far as the economic zones are concerned, you are aware of how much truck traffic is passing through the Republic of Croatia towards Central and Northern Europe from Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece, Romania, Serbia. We are on an ideal path between Turkey and Northern Europe, in the middle somewhere, there are economic areas along the Zagreb-Lipovac highway or if you want from Bregana to Lipovac or if you want from Čakovec to Lipovac, no one has thought to create a large distribution logistics centre that will serve those thousands and thousands of trucks passing by every day. Someone else is picking benefits from that on... Where you can sleep on that highway in the first place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it a shame that Croatia on its main highway to Lipovac does not have an excessive pump? Two at all that length. As we encourage investment, where we said that the Republic of Croatia should have its own interests and say in this area should develop these activities as well. Whoever does this is our national interest, then we'll encourage him. Nothing! The very fact that you don't have a normal resting place tells you that we're thinking about our future and that's the zone of Slavonia and Sreme.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62115	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club now will speak the esteemed representative Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62116	Dear Vice-President, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and professional commission have been working on this law. This is one of the laws that must be read as continuations in continuity. That's right. So, this is not the legislative framework that is emerging today, this is the philosophy of the legislative framework that has existed in the Republic of Croatia since 2005 and it is a shame now that I have no opportunity to explain and explain how the effects of this law are valorised, but I am sure they will take some space and time, so if they do not ask those people what method of verification of the contribution to the state budget of this law are working and monitoring. So, in 2015, there was a concept that we're working on today. The same law of 2015 is the continuity of what has been happening in the past five or seven years, so 2012, 2007 and the eighth. So, the investment incentive system in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is one established method of attracting investors and this is one of the region's best laws that do just that. So, when someone tells you as an effect of applying this legislative framework that there are 720 applications on your table, that 660 are in the process of processing, that this legislative framework wants to encourage investment somewhere at a level of more than 30 billion kuna with the intensity and obligation of these investors to open more than 17,000 jobs, then I would like to see someone who will dare find a better incentive framework than this in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that contributes to the development and entrepreneurship and overall economy in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So this policy is one of the sectoral policies that contributes to the growth of the economy and it was very interesting from this pay phone that respected gentlemen in 2016 began to take place some indicators that were valorised into figures, which led to a total GDP growth of 3.3% in that year. Don't forget that we had the elections and that we had the government's fall, etc. etc. However, at that moment in 2016, the Croatian banking institutions were I would say almost forced to a different philosophy of valorisation of credit requirements and in a different way to handle these requirements. Interests fell, the share of grants coming from the European common register and investment was increasing. And then you get one interesting number. So in the half-year and annual report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, you get a very impressive figure, the number of credit arrangements placed in crafts, micro and small medium-sized companies that exceed almost 16 billion kuna and an increase of over 50% compared to 2015. Then you get the situation that ten-fold more grants have been withdrawn from the EU right into a segment of micro, small and medium-sized companies, and when you combine a cumulative effect, economic activity and with the synergy of investment, i.e. public business plans and good tourist seasons, there has been an economic growth of 3.3%. And now we're slowly going back to one I'd say a strange environment where the pressure on these financial institutions was kind of subsidizing, the interest growing again, and again the walking out of these I'd say the desired credit arrangements are falling apart for a long period of time, and that I'd say the pression of the state apparatus to banking institutions, or one much more liberal approach, is that credit arrangements are waiting especially for a year, that the collateral has again exceeded 50%, that the interest has risen again to over four and a half or five percent, which is for those weakest craftsmen and micro entrepreneurs cancer wounds. So it can't start with a private business, with some activity over and over again if it's the same micro and small treatment as the big one that's on the market, or in some manufacturing aspect of 10, 15 or 20 years. So this incentive framework has 3 basic pillars that are being upgraded with these changes and additions. Therefore, up to a maximum of one million euros each entrepreneur investing a certain amount in a given sector has the possibility to obtain a maximum of one million euros in grant support, i.e. a subsidy. It also depends on the rate of unemployment per county each newly opened job that has to do with the country's investment rewards from between 3 and 9000 euros. And also this legislative framework gives the possibility of not paying a profit tax of 50 to 100%, in the 10 years of the duration or the formation of an investment, so the tax burden for an entrepreneur that starts working begins only after 10 years of the moment he entered such an investment. These changes and additions go one step further, so again teaching on the sentence of fellow Shuker's next follow-up. And the next follow-up is the activation of state property. I agree with this pay phone several times, which I am sure the legislator will fix until the second reading, so the whole area of the Republic of Croatia is not the same categorized and this story about the assisted areas and the county from which I come, which I am sure we have something to say from this pay phone about the system of crafts and entrepreneurship, including a colleague Demetlik, who brought the same problem from this pay phone to the same topic because it comes from Istria which is also not an assisted area, so also with us in Međimurje County and in our neighbouring Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Crying County. There's a lot of state property that rots and that very effectively from that cost centre to the state budget can be a revenue center. And when we sort of strangely accept the category of golf in this law, then I would read all those who had been able to read the arguments given by the legislator here and one item, so I won't read everything but, based on this law, the total gross amount of support somewhere around 14% subsidized tourism. Now, does anyone in this assembly dare try to explain to me that golf does not contribute to the tourist offer in the Republic of Croatia, I do not enter at all in the region or in the region of Croatia where private investors want to invest and build golf courses. But I'm asking myself if we're a tourist destination, if we want a fifth star in the tourist offer why all Mediterranean countries, why continental countries, why one Turkey have not to say how many golf courses and Croatia doesn't have a single one to this day and I know of at least five investors who, or want to invest in that space. What I agree with, and it is said from this pay phone, so in valorising what the state is renting, valorizing that value after 10 years of exploitation of this property, I am of the same opinion that, without any problem, this cost can be included in the ransom value invested by the entrepreneur at the end of the 10th year. But in addition to the calculation and the different definitions of the price of the newly opened job, which from this pay phone has several times been potentiated, so I can agree that there are jobs that are relatively cheap, for which they don't need basic assets, for which they don't need investments, which ultimately and entrepreneurs far away, far less stand, but what I have advocated for a long time and primarily in the area where I come from, which is northwestern Croatia, so investment in a new job is not an investment investment, nor is a job, a job. There are desirable investments, there are desirable jobs. And to open up cheap jobs, I think that we should finally get to that demagogue, and we should come and put an end to it. Because every job that requires new technology, and my colleague Beus has made a very good conclusion, requires big investments. And it's not the goal today... the work and labour force that will make 2.5 thousand kuna than the goal of introducing a new technology that will not require a large amount of jobs but which will produce high value added products and ultimately the industry with which local and regional self-government will be satisfied and therefore jobs that will provide sufficient tax revenues to the state budget but ultimately jobs that will give the worker a decent existence in the area where these jobs are being opened and opened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And again indicative, so I led here about three weeks ago a small verbal war and the topic of this verbal war was an indicative sentence, “Di is money? ” Well, it's a shame there aren't any friends here, but I'll put some information on his desk from half an hour ago. So in one of the competitions of the Ministry of Enterprise which has taken place since 2016, in which for the first time such form of competition has provided for these weakest craftsmen and micro-entrepreneurs through the financing of the European Commission 250 million kuna and is now responding to the subject of money, so out of 714 entrepreneurs with today, more than 152 million kunas are on average paid support from over 212 000 kunas, 171 entrepreneurs are currently contracting and 130 entrepreneurs are on some reserve list or waiting list and in the next 3 weeks all 250 million of these competitions will be paid. Therefore, the answer to the indicative type di are money in some of the competitions is very simple, among Croatian entrepreneurs who at the moment use these funds wisely and create new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62117	Thank you. Almost all the other MPs have come to your presentation, let's start with the order, the distinguished representative Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62118	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Horvat, your remark is actually primarily my exposure to golf is perhaps seeing your side, but let's take an example of a country like Austria that has some 140 golf courses. Count those golf courses that have built infrastructure of a type of hotel or a similar, so located objects in the golf course itself as a complex so you'll hang out where we're wrong about all this. So there's a golf sport, there's a golf infrastructure that's attached to the rest while there's a golf excuse here to make a new suite. So that's where we should take a look. Now if we go to support through a law like this, what do we confess? We admit, in fact, that golf courses aren't rentable in our country. The question arises why investors did not then come because not all areas are problematic if some areas in Croatia are agreed to have a golf course or someone would forbid them to do so. I don't think so, it was always a problem when the locals were against construction. But so far, according to the Investment Encouragement Act, they could have made an investment if they built in this way, they could have achieved certain benefits, but we're adding additional content here, so we're increasing the level of our investment so I wonder if then we could make some local projects and tell our cities, municipalities, build golf courses and you'll get support from the state. Then I think the picture would be different and maybe paint the real situation on the ground. In this way we directly provide funds for projects that are not in principle cost-effective if we are not prepared as a country to encourage. I don't see the logic of tourism development that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62119	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62120	Kolega Panenić, what is crucial in the segment of the development of this form of sport, tourism or anything, so here we are talking about only and exclusively private investments at the moment. So, we're not talking about the inability of state investment and trust me, every entrepreneur before he goes into any investment, his physicality, five times calculated, and doesn't get into that enterprise that we're going to produce losses. On the other hand, you also know very well that we in the Republic of Croatia the moment we became a full member of the EU, we have so-called. a map of regional support. The regional support map defines the maximum support that the investor can use in view of the business creation or place of investment and all sources of these aid and all cumulative amount cannot exceed that maximum amount which can be encouraged by a specific investment. I have to admit that in golf I know very little, but if we're working at this point and building sports camps where volleyball, football, swimming or any other sport is happening, I don't see any reason, and at this point through the media I hear that about 5 investors want to build something similar in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I tried to find out from an investor who was blocking his investment. Unsolved property-legal relations, inability to come up with spatial-planning documentation, inability to access a building permit, and ultimately that man does not seek any additional support because it has a circled financial structure. So let's not prevent things from going and inert in themselves and, as was said here in one continuity, this is just an addition to the law that should in a certain way get an additional effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62121	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62122	Dear fellow, you mentioned, among other things, what golf courses were just mentioned and something that is desirable and undesirable. I remember my youth, childhood, and I remember dozens of chimneys in Rijeka, factories, foundries, jets, paper factories Vulcan, I remember Dina petrochemicals on Krk in full drive, and I know that we are now 27 years of independent state, haven't reached climate figures since before the war in tourism. So, we weren't bothered by chimneys, we weren't bothered by this massive rotation in the city, and we didn't mind 20,000, 30,000 inhabitants more than the city of Rijeka now has. These people are gone, and they're gone because there are no jobs, because all those factories are closed. And then someone mentions the hydrocentrale on Cetina, the events of the people, LNG on Krk, the events of the people, everything smokes to us, everything stinks to us. Golf courses, no golf courses, let's do a demonstration. There are two things, I'm holding on to it. The demagogy and the populism that we've heard so much about here in Parliament and the media and there's a responsibility to make decisions and work. That's two different things. One generates the disappearance, the departure of the population, the collapse of the economy, the removal of jobs, and the decision-making and work, the responsibility that we city and municipality leaders should have, the responsibility in the ministries, the government, but also the responsibility of us here in the Parliament that we create legislation like this law. If we're going to think of any kind of investment, golf course, some kind of... who's going to benefit and run some kind of paranoia, we're never going to build anything, and the state is going to stagnate even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62123	Thank you. My colleague Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62124	My colleague Klaric, I fully agree with you, so we will not issue a building permit for some new golf course here in the Assembly, and they will be issued by professional services that know very well what to laugh about and what not to laugh about, just let us not create a name that such facilities are unnecessary for Croatia. I'm going to pull only one parallel, so my colleague Panenić here is well apostrophe, if the Austrians in their Alps can build golf courses, why can't we build them where we have abandoned land and where nothing is done or happening? Well, look, there's over 350 small hydropower plants in Austria today. I'm sure all of us here are wondering, so from 350 locations in the Alps where the state allowed such buildings to be built. Imagine you today being asked to imagine in Plitvice Lakes National Park in a place where there is water and where only a hydropower plant can be built, a request is made for the construction of such a facility. An environmental impact study in our institution called the Ministry of Environmental Protection would write in font 35 letters, it can't. So in Croatia you can't in Austria you can golf in Croatia you can't in Austria. So imagine that some of the entrepreneurs want to build a platform for driving Formula 1 in Croatia, so I think 2.5 million Croats would protest against it without even knowing why we don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62125	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62126	Dear colleague Horvat. I called for a few reasons. First, to thank you in support of the fact that between the two readings it is worth considering that the allocation of state property extends beyond the area of assisted areas, because I've done the lapus before because I said 50 units, more than 50% of the units of local administration and self-government will not have the right to do so. Secondly, your attitude in this context does not surprise me because both Međimurci and Istrians always want more, always wants better, always wants faster, and we are never hard to work or admit a mistake. What you said in your opening statement, how many projects are ready, how many applications we have, how much will it generate if I remembered well 30 billion kunas of total investment, I think it's information if it's really that way, something that's positive and something that hopes for this society, so here I am, the Ministry of Economy, I want it all to be the best thing to do, and thank God if it can be more. We are constantly talking about golf in the Republic of Croatia, we also have a former tourism minister, tourism in total tourism traffic from year to year in Croatia, there are many new hotels with four, five and more stars. But colleagues and colleagues who are additional content that creates additional value because of the element of uncertainty in our wider environment that has affected better traffic created in the meantime? Almost nothing. We're talking about this all the time, this can't work, this isn't working, let's start talking, about health tourism on cycling trails, about a lot of projects, and about golf, not spending the most valuable space, but what you said. Croatia is wonderful to go to use that space that will further enlarge it and create added value, which is state policy and that is our interest, and not just not, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62127	Thank you, please. Let's stick to time. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62128	Well, I'm not going to repeat myself now, so this is obviously a topic that after a long, long time has reconciled all the constituency clubs and I'm glad we're even discussing it today. I'm not happy to see an empty assembly room. But what's the fact and what we can't escape from because I trust the secretary of state and I believe all of those numbers she's given, and I'd say very nice numbers that should be from this pay phone with each of these benches repeated at least a dozen times with the intention that the media, yes and the newspaper, that and the portals and anyone else who informs the Croatian public about it in these few days is saying something about it. So if the secretary of state is great that at this point, 660 applications, if entrepreneurs are obliged to invest 31.5 billion kuna if all 660 applications pass, they open 17.5 thousand new jobs, I believe the secretary of state. If, in the light of this legislative proposal, it is said that at this point, the confirmation has resulted in 258 entrepreneurs, if 252 investments are happening at this moment, based on these approvals, somewhere at 11 billion kuna, which in a year, two or three will open over 9900 new jobs, then I believe the secretary of state. So it's not a joke to bring out incorrect data, but I'm sure because in that house I had the opportunity for a short time to work, that this encouraging legislative framework was good, that entrepreneurs recognized it, and the result of that is all these figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62129	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Horvat, when you take credits in the past 15 years, then you can simply see the cycles where there was a desire for investment, there was a lack of financial resources, laws were changed, and so were some processes. But something that can characterize all these times is political and legal security. And what do we have today? We have good, quality material. However, many discuss this material without reading it. But they take a sentence from someone who argues and then they get caught up in it and they discuss it. Now there is one fundamental question, how few of us in Croatia have at this time, and in financial means there are very few that can invest. Look at the balance sheets, let's not get smart, we don't have a God-knows-what. And let's not think of ourselves as being god-given, simply, capital has certain rules and we stick to those rules. And we together at the state level, as we here raise our hands for certain laws, units of local self-government, and we certainly need to take a hug and drag to attract it, because that's the only way we're going to be able to talk to us about the problem, the pension, the health system, the demographic problem, becomes a minor problem. And the only new job, those problems solve, nothing else solves them. But did you see yesterday, a lot of debates about what? About nothing. You've seen a lot of names. Who will come to invest in Croatia, if he, in accordance with the applicable law, gets something in the public tender, then someone remembers him for 4.5 years to call. Who's crazy? That they invest their money somewhere... And finally, interest for Croatian entrepreneurs, at this point, by 3.4 times their competitors and that's our real problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62131	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62132	Comrade Shuker, you are absolutely right, when you claim that here for the word appears not specifically today, but many times so far and those not only who have read the legislative framework but those who have had opportunities and participated in the development of such a legislative framework have never dealt with any specific work, but they know everything about everything. So at one point, Croatian entrepreneurs tried to educate, that there is a system of grants, the European Commission is giving strong support and money, but you have to go to the competition. To these same entrepreneurs, they did not explain the conditions that this entrepreneur must satisfy, in order to go to the competition at all, so some of our entrepreneurs took a lot of thought into that projection and spent a lot of money, and after that, or the ministries told them, more luck the second time. So to create an entrepreneur, a legislative framework, to invest, which will be an obstacle to him, and not an incentive, is just as you said, a time frame of some governments that have just done so. So, I've had a chance to experience it, to invite 15 entrepreneurs to the table and ask them why they don't apply, everyone said, we're afraid because it costs us, and there's no guarantees. If you explain a little differently to them and create a legislative framework, in which they do not have to participate before they receive support and do not need to invest before they are sure to receive support, then the investor will invest, safely and happily.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62133	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Horvat, here's from your introduction, when you mentioned in 2005 how it went and I fully agree with you that this proposal is an amendment, it is complemented by one harmonisation and creation of better quality conditions, for our entrepreneurs and for those who have the will and will to invest in new production and new jobs. But I'm worried about something here. So he's not tied up, the law's not an obstacle. But, regarding the Ministry of Economy, yesterday we had a draft budget, for 2018 you see, 2 items in the ministry, where it decreases, means developing competitiveness and restructuring of industry, from 531000 to 96 index 18.1 and second strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises from 215195 to 123 million, that means index 57.2. So that's where we see the indicator, something this government intends to reduce about the development of the economy. Secondly, these businessmen, what you said and announced, who have made demands and 9,000 new jobs, I see no problem in the incentives of the Ministry of Economy. I see the problem that with us these investments are slowly shrinking just for another reason, which is I will say the legal framework for security and stability. Mr. Shuker, it came out, and that's one problem, and the other problem is that we lack qualified and efficient workforce. So in the second part where this government lags behind or slows down, which is precisely at the opening of vocational schools or centres of excellence, because we today deliver from high schools, a labour force that is not sufficiently trained, educated, for sophisticated technologies that come to us. And then for the third reason, these employment workers have a much lower salary than they do in developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62135	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62136	That for the Croatian public and all of us here, it doesn't turn out that we had coffee before we started discussing it, we agree on everything. It's because we come from similar regions, or because we think the same thing, it's less important. So, I'm sure, I'm sure, try to remember today's date, if this parliamentary mandate is that regular mandate that we're going to have a thematic session here on the subject of vocational education. Thematic session of the Croatian Parliament will take place on this topic, or on the topic of the labour market, for a simple reason, because in Istria and we in northern Croatia, and slowly Slavonia, along with these evictions, feel the lack of labour. I'll repeat again, it doesn't matter what kind of job you're opening and it's not like you're going to be able to make that job go away or you're going to keep a man, allow him to build and work or encourage his thinking that he's looking for his happiness in some of the Western European countries. But on the other hand, what I must do to you, but not to correct you in the sense that I'm criticizing you, but I will correct you on good faith. Therefore, this encouraging measure in the budget for the following year is almost undermining. So, 70 million kunas have never been scheduled for an investment-enhancing system before. In 2018 it was precisely the 70 million kuna and I am sure that 70 million kuna will be too little. And when the measure cannot be continued in the eighth month, the ninth and tenth months by the end of the year is the only reason because the budget for such incentive measures lacks more funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62137	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Totgergelia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62138	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's colleague Horvat, today practically all the speakers agreed on, and practically almost have the same or very similar attitudes, and it has been observed several times that a quality debate has been conducted. However, I was offered a colleague, Beus, when he spoke of creating public perception and the responsibility of politicians for this perception. When we look at what journalists and newspapers have written today, we can only see on all the headlines how the Assembly MPs are banging on the benches. I don't think we're gonna have this debate on this bill tomorrow in the paper on the cover. And I think that there should be a higher level of responsibility here and we sitting in the House, that we are more when we talk about such serious things, that yesterday was also a debate about serious things because it was a budget. But the only way out is when the MPs are banging on the benches. That's one thing. Second, he was a colleague of Shucker's mention of entrepreneurship zones. We had an accident with entrepreneurship zones that just about 2008, 2009 when we finished them and when they had to start to function, then there was this economic crisis where many entrepreneurs who started to break down and now in these entrepreneurship areas we have objects that started but weren't eventually released into operation. And then, on the other hand, the new entrepreneurs who need to come and now we have no place to bring them to our cities and municipalities. And it is in that part and this law that we need to help us bring in easier entrepreneurs and offer them, mostly in these continental parts, land owned by the Republic of Croatia. And now I get to that part, and I'm almost out of time, but two, three more sentences for assisted areas I fully understand the promoter because right now, here's a sentence one, because right... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62139	My colleague Totgergeli, we've been through a considerable amount of time. Here's an answer from the esteemed representative Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62140	Well, I won't say much, I'd prefer to use my colleague Totgergeli in these two minutes for his exposure is quite right. Very little public opinion is related to what we talk about very much, so the way we discuss it, and this is the way that journalists deliver it to the public today. I'm obviously very little help here, but unlike some other MPs, I'm not sure that any public debate can be involved. But about those I know something about and I have someone and what formal and informal knowledge I'm sure I'll defend my position and the attitude of all of us who... from which you, I, colleague Demetlika, come, want no matter what time she stepped out a little faster than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The exact same status and the same benefits as the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62141	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62142	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Horvat, if I understand correctly, and correct me, I came in just as you were talking, so if it's wrong you actually agree that you don't need additional support for investors, golf investors, I agree. If they already have funds for that golf course, they don't need our special extra support. We prefer it for a research and development centre that some entrepreneurs in Croatia would not even believe to work, since we are actually investing in ARENDI anyway too little or less than 1% of GDP. However, what I reported to the replica is this your mention of the debate three weeks ago where my colleague Bulj asked if there was money. And you and I both know that no one asked where the money was, the money types went missing when you and you right here in the session told us that we had money in our account. So, the thing is, these assets don't exist for a year or three months, and don't tell me that you're normal because I know they're not, we talked about entrepreneurs applying for a $1.9 contest last year, and now they're getting money. It's after a year and three months, and it's out of its minds, because a year and three months that entrepreneur goes down five times and five times rises. So, anyway, the investment he needed a year and three months ago may not be a tribune today because trends are changing on the market. Now, speaking of this entrepreneurial impulse, I am pleased that you agree that it is a great project because I agree that it is a phenomenal project, in fact the only one that has offered the possibility of micro and small entrepreneurs' grants, so as it stands in response the other day, Minister Dalic, the parliamentary question says that an entrepreneurial impulse is abolished and that no more competition will be repeated. So I am interested in your opinion honestly because I know about your opinion of small, micro and small entrepreneurs and the way they are encouraged, do you agree with this that this will no longer be repeated, because as it says, they have various loans and loans at their disposal that certainly cannot be compared with any grants, especially when we talk about micro and small entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62143	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62144	Now I'd like to ask if those two minutes before I could use the answer, so four minutes would be too short for me. My colleagues, when you say whether investors in golf courses need this kind of extra support, then I ask you what kind of support these investors are using today. I don't know, I don't think there's any support in this segment and this is the only support that can attract an investor to come and build a golf course in the Republic of Croatia. I'll agree with you for a year and three months waiting for a contract isn't normal, it's not normal. But also to ask the question "Where are the money?" I answer the question. So the money in the Croatian entrepreneurs, with 714 on the account, 171 in the response phase and on the reserve list of 130 entrepreneurs and in 14 days all 250 million kunas will be paid to craftsmen.../The speaker has been excluded./ [[Intruder: Money needs to be created.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62145	Thank you. Now, please, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, they will now speak to the esteemed representative of the Goddess Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62146	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here are the amendments and additions to the Investment Encouragement Act. Today there have been various thoughts as to whether they will contribute to attracting investments, they will certainly contribute. But that they are the only amendments to the law or that law that will contribute certainly won't. We're all aware of how many other obstacles we have here. We are still perceived as a country where the administration is large, where frequent amendments to the law regardless of these efforts by all of us here in the Parliament and the previous governments to reduce it, that we have labour that does not meet today's needs, all of this stands. But what are we doing here? How many times have we called our entrepreneurs thieves, how many times? Do you think they don't listen, is it pleasant to hear? And that's what we here Croatian representatives, MPs and theirs, and they chose us. They're the ones we expect a lot of, and at the same time we're downplaying them so much that there are those who don't work properly, there's but there's a lot more of those who really care about investment and about paying their salaries regularly, that they pay maximum wages, that they don't owe a day to the state of taxes or contributions, but it doesn't matter to us, we just all go in the same basket so as it is, it's important that we talk here. To listen only to our entrepreneurs, so listen to the others who plan to invest here. And all the information that the secretary of state listed by his colleague Horvat, who was still under discussion. No, it won't be in the media tomorrow because it's a non-essential thing, it's far more interesting other things, so I think we need to take a little care of how we discuss and how we treat individual groups and especially about our entrepreneurs that we expect a lot of. We had this law so far, the last one was from 2015 that the changes were good, we had what had been improved before when HAMAG BICRO introduced that they should no longer be delivered or that entrepreneurs should not deliver themselves in paper form and extract all these certificates because we know what they were like to elaborate or register paper than they themselves provided everything that was possible to provide. However, what makes me glad to see this 2015 law change. We know that we then had the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. And when the competition was called, there were entrepreneurs who couldn't report for a single contest. It was about the following, it was about organisational form. They were not commercial companies to be able to report to the Ministry of Economy's tender but at the same time they could not report on the tender of entrepreneurship and crafts because they met or crossed one of those two criteria, which is that they belonged, that they had too much income and could not automatically be among the craftsmen who could use these funds. This is why it is really good that after 5 years everyone is in the same status and that those craftsmen who employ about 100 people earn income but who have an organisational form of profit tax trade can participate in these competitions. So we had a situation then that those craftsmen simply had to buy machines that were older because they couldn't apply for funds anywhere and that's why this law is good, which now allows that part to be solved and that it can participate with those assets it bought in that part as its own investments. Here we have now solved this problem and I really think it's a good change in that part. From the other things that are also good, it is the introduction of more favourable conditions for the provision of support in the investment of micro-entrepreneurs, which I said through accounting for eligible costs, the introduction of the equipment used up to a maximum of 5 years, as well as the extension of the period of filling the minimum needs of the number of new jobs. There's a dilemma that's targeted at the workplace, how much work should be done. However, we already have situations now that the even greater problem is to preserve existing jobs because here in the part where I come from there are not so many unemployed but there are those who need to work but should work in other jobs. In fact, there is one big problem that we have with us an extremely large number of exporters. And export is looking for quality and quality can be achieved by really new technology, by getting new machines. So if they want to stay and these jobs need to be requalified and they need to see the same opportunities in that part of it in a way to stimulate because these people, too, I say, pay contributions and normally, they will pay more if they reach a higher price out there, but the question is whether they will even export if it comes to the situation that quality cannot be monitored by the quality that exists on the markets externally. We've got a lot more here and a lot of talk about logistics and distribution centers. I believe that there is still a need for a good analysis and evaluation, there is an accurate definition of what is there, but it might not be a bad idea to re-analyze it all. And what I agree with, and most of my colleagues have agreed, is that the support is now provided only for property owned by the Republic of Croatia located in assisted areas. I believe that the other units of local self-government in that part of the law, or on the Investment Encouraging Act, should have the same status or opportunities. It is possible to other laws and to stimulate and we know that we should and should advocate the even development of the whole of Croatia, and it is absolutely there, but in this part I agree with colleagues who have already stated this. And what I'm only going to say in the end is that we're going to support this law as a HNS club in the first reading, but I still expect these remarks to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62147	Thank you. We have more replicas than usual. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62148	Thank you very much. Comrade Macar, it is good that you will uphold this law. I think that entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia are actually eager to expect these changes and help that will be achieved with it, but they are even more eager to see whether Mr. Vrdoljak will jump into government because if he jumps in then surely the economy will move more significantly forward and that is something that is now probably what entrepreneurs with impatience are waiting for because his absence from politics over the past six months has really reduced the concentration of quality and consistency and ideas and some initiatives, so probably entrepreneurs and voters in Croatia are very interested in returning to Croatian politics, Croatian Government. So I ask you to personally stimulate him, there is no need to be self-secure, to be careful because he has so much to give, not only to the CNS who will become president soon, again after he rested a little, but really still has a lot to give to Croatian politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62149	The answer of the esteemed MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Maras. My name is Bozica Makar, I am a representative in the Croatian Parliament who in one word did not mention any of what you said today and I am sure any entrepreneur has listened to your replica today will be particularly proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62151	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62152	Here's my dear colleague, you mentioned it, but that's not why I answered the line, but this moved me to hear earlier on that part of the story that entrepreneurs are all thieves, that we're all crime-related, what kind of climate it's created in Croatia. Here's a colleague of ours in his replica gave her another contribution to creating some kind of climate. But what's important is we can say that we're all leaders of local self-government units, mayors, mayors of some kind of local sheriffs, we can say that a number of entrepreneurs are some kind of criminals, but the essence of this existence here is the legislative framework that we're creating right now with this law the possibility of these entrepreneurs going into investment and building. I am very pleased to see in my field every big white board on which is the Croatian coat of arms and coat of arms of the EU, where it is written co-financed by EU funds, where halls are made, where drives are made. And it's unfortunately something we won't be able to read in the media, which we won't be able to watch too much except for the little cartoons on some television, on some portals, but we'll look at exactly this kind of banging, this kind of stupidity to say and the disgrace of politics, politicians and all of us in today's debate here from the IDS through our agents, everyone who's constructively debated you like this law and what this law brings to this country, that investor, that man who took the risk of maybe putting his home on a mortgage to start an investment, to create a new extra value for himself primarily, but by creating for himself, he also creates for those people who will be working in that hall, who will be paid for all those who will pay VAT on that product that product that he's going to fill the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62153	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I'm not going to repeat what you said because I actually agree with most of it. I'm not gonna look back on the first part because I just don't want to. And this is about our entrepreneurs, so normally every single one of us here who once tried something on his own knows what it means, knows how to appreciate every kuna, appreciates any help from any level, and especially if we bring in laws that allow it to go and work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62155	Representative Maras has raised a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62156	Thank you very much, sir. He was injured in 238 but also part of the session because Mr. Klaric should have called before Mrs. Makar finished, but he didn't answer. And then he has special abilities, because in his replica he said he was referring to what I was saying after Mrs. Macar, so he obviously then predicted what I was going to say, because that's exactly what he answered. So either Mr. Klaric is psychic, or he broke the Rules of Procedure. And it makes me extremely uncomfortable, that Mr. Klaric feels so bad, because this is how I like to humiliate representatives from HDZ to my representatives in the Croatian Parliament in front of the Croatian public. So, I'm sorry, I apologize to you, you'd probably have a huge reputation, if I hadn't held this debate now, because your wise words would have been widely heard. Here, I'm sorry that I humiliated your debate, which was really very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62157	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I estimate, of course, that the Rules of Procedure is not injured, and you know it yourself. You know yourself because you abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected MPs of Mira Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62158	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Macar, I disagree in that part where you've agreed with colleagues who come round. This kind of more developed county, and when they say that all areas need to be fully equalized, so in that part, where we're talking about assisted areas, I think that these areas should still have a certain advantage. And here I agree with the legislators and I understand why it is written in this bill. So let's compare these areas where angle. is more areas that come as assisted areas. For example, my county, Slavonic County. Those in economic strength are located at the bottom of the Republic of Croatia. And to get investors there, we need to give them something more at any moment than in those parts, where they actually come alone. And in that part, I totally understand the promoter, because let's just say, there's been a lot of talk about golf courses. If we went to build a golf course somewhere in Slavonia, so it would be hard to get a strong investor, if we didn't give him some super benefits compared to, say, areas, such as Istria, and even these parts that are very close to the City of Zagreb. That's why I understand the promoter, and in that part, I can't agree with colleagues who come from areas that don't have much, areas that are supported, so that's where we kind of part ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62159	The answer of the esteemed MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, and it's good to think differently, but to make arguments and reach a common agreement. Or, let's make a point of what's best. There are many things that can contribute to investing in assisted areas. Is this the one? Maybe one segment. But is it the right to make it impossible for other units of local self-government to start the same in that part? Is it investment? There must be advantages that you have. There are advantages that Istria has, there are advantages, there are advantages that our north has, there are certain advantages. Whether it's a workforce, whether it's the environment, whether it's the other conditions, whether it's some kind of position rentalr, or whether it's a specific position. But it's all to be seen, but by this law, I don't think we can solve it, but we need to see the possibilities of changing that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62161	Thank you. Now, let's go to an individual debate. We only have one, and that's the esteemed representative of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62162	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the beginning of the debate, I have to say that I am a little nervous, because I am afraid that with my debate I am not banning these high-quality and high-quality debates, which were held by my colleagues from HDZ, who have been representing politics in power for several years now, just out of credibility we don't see a V. So on this side I apologize in advance to my colleagues if their serious debates will be overshadowed by my banal debates in their opinion. But it doesn't matter. We go to law, we go to what's important, and what's important here and what needs to be stressed, which is that, with all the efforts our government is doing, we, in this year, in the first quarter, have less direct investment for 126 million euros, or 22.8%, respectively. Even with all the quality debates we've heard here from the HDZ Representatives Club, with all the efforts the government is doing, unfortunately, the results aren't good and we need to ask ourselves here all together why it is. Maybe now that Vrdoljak comes to the government, it'll be better. We leave that possibility, but the fact is that in the first quarter of this year we have 22.8% less investment. When we look at the EU, in 2016 Of 5845 investments in the EU, 34 of them were realised in Croatia. If we compete with the size of the Republic of Croatia both territorially and by population, we see that we are far behind the EU average and have not done enough there. And that's the data, that's what we can't escape from, that's what we're saying, and we're in opposition not to do anything about reform, that we've fallen 8 places on the doing business list. No matter how banal or wise the debates in the assembly as colleagues of Klaric, we in Croatia fell 8 places on the dumming list. It's not Miro Bulj's fault, it's not Gordan Maras' fault that those who hold the majority in the Republic of Croatia are guilty of it, it's the representatives who supported and who support this policy that doesn't work at all, and 8 places is one worrying result that says we're going in the wrong direction, that none of the reforms, anything from removing the barriers, nothing from reducing the administration, none of what we've heard already over a year ago. This is not the Parliament's initiative and competence to work, although representatives at the Croatian Parliament suggest certain things, but when a man proposes something like I have proposed several laws, then even these high-quality HDZ representatives such as Mr Klaric do not support such initiatives and do not support Croatian entrepreneurs being easier because they are just waiting for government proposals. And since they are neither slow to come or they are cosmetic, then it is no wonder that in the first 3 months of this year we have 126 million euros of foreign direct investment less than we had in the same period of 2016 and we need to be aware that the situation is not good. It must be better seen from the government's planning, here's Mr. Schucker very well-known, following yesterday's debate on budget and analysis, those 5% growth projections, promises, credible HDZ policies on hundreds of thousands of new jobs to be opened, are now down to reducing growth rates from 2016 and 2017 to 2018, 2019, at the end of the 5th, instead of 5, will be 2, 2.5 if so, and these are the plans that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic gives. And then the question arises why when we have the possibility, when the growth of the economy, when the budget is better than ever, when VAT revenues are higher than they were in 2015, which is why it no longer invests in the economy, which is why, for example, the promise of a colleague from the HDZ is not fulfilled again to reduce the VAT rate if we have 10 billion kuna more than VAT, which is 25% on the absolute amount, which is why it decreases by 1.2% of the VAT rate and thus increases the purchasing power of citizens. So we don't have investment in the purchasing power of citizens, we don't have the relief of the economy, we don't protect our market, and in this way we don't do it in these years and we haven't done anything almost anything to use the favourable European climate that draws us forward but not as much as it could. As far as the golf course is concerned, that story has been told several times, I can't figure it out right now, and why it bothers my colleagues in MOST so much when it comes to a single space that would enlarge everything and that can be spatially planned so that there are no objections to the city or citizens. After all, the people who sold their land and earned money, the investor stands there for a while and now we have a situation where people are thinking about suing investors instead of building something there, to hire our buildings, to get some new income from tourism, to get a new attraction, so all of this in Croatia is going too slowly. But the generals, I don't think our problem is that we can't realize the golf course at Srđ, our problems are that at these times when we can do a lot, we don't do almost anything or even withdraw EU funds. If there were no agriculture there would probably not be any use of what was used in the field of entrepreneurship, something was said by the representatives of MOST Bulj and Mrs Ninčević-Lesandric in their protective slogan where the money is when we see that we cannot even withdraw these basic, minimum small amounts for our entrepreneurs that they have been waiting for months, that it has failed to realise, then I think the answer is that growth and investment is slower than it should be. Not to use even the entrepreneurial impulse in the best way, so it is amazing to say that in these discussions so much has been criticised for the last year, for a year and a half, this is what Mr. Bulj well noticed, a year and a half of the HDZ Government's days compared to what was before, as if this government was 8 years old, so when there are so many negative examples in these projects that my colleague Bulj mentioned. I will also support in the first reading of this law, I hope that it will result in certain changes in relation to investors, that it will result in new investments in the Republic of Croatia and that in the end we will have better results than we have now but it does not go without serious reforms, it does not go without a better place on the Doing Business ranking, 8 places lose in a year to watch Macedonians with envy that they have succeeded with all political instability to solve certain things, I really don't understand. This shows a lack of action, not some significant work in the past period, but we've learned about it already because it's not just one project, it's mentioned both INA and all that's related to it. No one has wondered in Croatia why we have in the production of hydrocarbons drop and let's say we have a level of production from 2014 so that the growth rate is higher, why this is constantly falling, why we don't solve the problem but with MOL, why not buy INA when it's already promised, there's a lot of things that are not answered, and there's a lot of talk about it, and there's little that's done. And that regardless, again I say whether we have had such quality discussions as Mr. Klaric, for example, in the Croatian Parliament or this banal as he thinks it is mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62163	Thank you. We have replicas, of course. He is the first respected representative of Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62164	Here I thank my fellow representative, Maras, with all my heart for commending my debate, which is truly well-intentioned and correct. I thank and commend him for his statement that he will support this law, means it is quality and prepared. And why is our situation like this? I remember a minister who accidentally named himself as a colleague of Maras, who was a four-year minister of entrepreneurship and then I was here in the Parliament and I was mayor and all the investments died practically in that part, nothing was built or worked. Among other things, this law and many other laws must be amended. Due to such work, the government's greatest reach for the minister, a heated debate was the Law on undertaker services wherever the dead turned into market goods, according to counterpart Linic at the time. I also remember a law that directly affects what we from the opposition at that time suggested to Mr. Maras did not do when exactly what the subject of this law was of state land, cities and municipalities abolished even in this part of the points for European funds made it impossible to obtain state land. When he put into the scope of all entrepreneurship zones in the units of local self-government criteria of 60% within 20km. And even those areas that were 80% filled, and these cities and municipalities couldn't get, and they can't get state land today because of that law, so we have to change that law, and we're blocked because we don't have those 5 points for candidacy on these funds for a simple reason because that minister is capable, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62165	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62166	Thank you very much. Mr. Klaric, you don't have to thank me, I just had to notice, I've been following you for a while and I have to say that people are stopping me on the road and saying who's the one from Bakar, he's really saying great discussions. And I've had to tell you in public now, it's really something that citizens notice and demand more of your discussions because it enlarges the work of this House. So on this side don't thank yourself that's something that's generally accepted, everyone probably knows about Mr. Klaric from Bakar and his debate. And as for this second part, so while this gentleman, or my little one, was a minister, we grew up on a doing business scale. I don't know if you trust Klaric's ladders anymore, and if we here in the Parliament trust Klaric's scales or do business charts. I would somehow be more prone to the World Bank than I would be to you. Here, don't get angry and you're having a very good debate, but I'm still taking this knowledge and evaluation of the World Bank with a little bit more seriousness and respect than your reports. As far as business and business zones are concerned, I'm against the state giving all sides and the zones standing empty. And that's how it is. And if you've already seen it as a big problem, you're not in power yesterday. So this is the second year that you've been through, how long it takes for such a simple law to change. It means how much you need it, so it takes me two months for a law like that. Why don't you write it down, so why don't you write the law? Here I am ready to sign your proposal but you haven't written a single law in two years. Why don't you do it and correct that injustice. Here I suggest you, with quality discussions, you are certainly able to write that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62167	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62168	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, when you speak with mercy about projections of the economic growth of the Croatian government budget and about investments in the Republic of Croatia, then remember that it should not be forgotten because it is my responsibility and your responsibility and all of us in the Croatian Parliament that it is not only the state that creates certain legal normative conditions but it is also the social climate in which we are located and that definitely affects investments in the Republic and that people who are seriously involved in business and investment are very much monitored. You forget the fact that while you were in power, or you were the Minister of Economy, that economic growth in 2012 fell 2% and in 2013 for another percentage bonus, in 2014 as well. And in fact, then and then your total foreign debt increased to over 46.7 billion euros. And you forget what happened then, and I don't want it to happen now, and I know it comes from other opposition benches that there are no investments and that it's an unfavourable investment topic. You forget that when we warned you, then you defected to one other thing, you went to those world-famous, ideological topics that we weren't happy about when we talked about, you abolished the memorial to the Bleiburg victims, then the introduction of violent bilingual records in Vukovar, the health education of primary and secondary schools, and we said that, with those changes of law, especially in tax laws that seemed to me, it would affect an unfavourable investment climate. So today, and then, even today, you should think about that, that society must create conditions for a favourable investment climate. I will not enter what my colleagues in MOST have said, but if you are today banning golf at Srdje and certain thermal power plants and what other investments, it certainly has an adverse impact on investments in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62169	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62170	Thank you, dear colleague Babic, in your debate you accidentally or intentionally indirectly called your coalition partners, so I wasn't the economy minister but your sub-basement of this coalition is, so Vrdoljak would and I will honestly tell you what I think is the biggest damage that happened to that government that Cacic had to go away because of that accident situation, and what Vrdoljak came for Minister of Economy. ... I think it's one of the main problems that hasn't been done enough in the economic part of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If Cacic had stayed Minister of Economy, believe me, the results would have been much, much better. And the other thing, you also mentioned boards and a lot of things that your coalition partners from the SDSS and all those who in Croatia and HDZ should advocate, which is that we respect our laws, especially the constitutional laws that we have passed here in the Croatian Parliament, and HDZ was the leader of the adoption of these laws. And I don't see why that's even in the context of climate investment. So you're now saying that if we have bilingual panels where our minorities have it in accordance with their constitutional rights of freedom, language and letter, you're now saying that it's in direct correlation with the investment climate. Well then I don't understand how, for example, that in Istria, colleagues from IDS are there means climate much better than in some other parts where it's a problem, and where there's no economical almost anyone. So then in Istria it should be as much of a problem as you say, which has nothing to do with each other. Let's separate these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62171	Thank you. Finally... I have to admit, I didn't see it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Maras, you don't run a session. Forgive me. You don't understand. We will now go to the closing statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which was attended by the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62172	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Most Club, he gave my colleague Panenic a position where he listed everything in these amendments and additions to the Law on Encouragement and Investments and, of course, we expect that in this reading, we are listening to your address. I'm sorry if you haven't eaten before, but I haven't been able to finish by saying your position on all the proposals put forward, and I expect that the investment climate and investment will be mainly in the areas of underdeveloped areas, according to counterpart Panenic. We have a number of entrepreneurship zones empty, and I hope that this law in reading what is also highlighted... the Most Club that these regions and entrepreneurs will have better conditions, encourages them to come to those parts, invest and survive those ends. Now that I don't list all these areas from Vukovar to Dubrovnik in the hinterland, Slavonia has the potential to develop. Of course you've been through probably a mistake or intention, which is golf courses, and we know that's the goal for Srdz that colleague Bačić is familiar with about it, he knows and the SDP is down there they shared the SDP and HDZ accepted the project, but only the people are against it. But both major parties agreed on that. So I expect you to consider this golf course because we also have the possibility of developing a ski resort so that they don't write, we have opportunities for other tourist essential projects that could be good in our continental part of the Republic. This is quite targeted, if it is not a mistake then it was targeted that this was going to Srdj meaning what the people only agree against in Dubrovnik HDZ and SDP and, of course, in this case the ministry. I believe this time it will not be on any pages... and everything will be made by the wife of Minister Buric. Of course it's probably Minister Dalic, I'm sorry he's not here to ask if everything's been studied, so here's to explain it to us. It's probably not about Vis Viva's family projects from ministers, so let's just believe this law isn't about changes. I'm sorry here he mentioned me and the former Economy Minister Horvat would have been much better off if he had been the minister of this 200, 300 million kuna we talked about the projects mentioned and the money, probably that money wouldn't have waited for people for two years, you're from entrepreneurship and it's a shame that you're in these benches with so much experience and you'd be doing your job better than Minister Dalic if you were from the real sector and you knew the problems of entrepreneurs, Minister Dalic knows the banking problems, and the lobby, well that part agrees, but this entrepreneurial part would certainly have been better done by his colleague Horvat in the government than many other ministers. But unfortunately, the only thing that has the chance to tell us here in the Parliament is what I don't think is appropriate. Here's another colleague, Horvat, I agree with your exposure, but here's what's not in time, where's the money, where's the money, where's the money? Well, let's say the money's from the funds. It has been promised that European funds will be also important economic development,... 10 billion kuna from European funds in 2017 is only 4%, 3.4% achieved. They always say every year that they have agreed that there are more projects, but the fact is that only 4% of the projects are achieved, and today we pay more in the EU register Croatia's state than is returning to Croatia. So we're funding foreign projects this part's a little closing and off topic but fellow Horvat... where's the money, the money's in the cash register... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU, investing in other countries, is less going back to Croatia than we are investing in, and that is the inability of the administration which is obviously not able to achieve a better withdrawal because it is unfortunate that we invest from the state budget in a Peljega bridge and now we ask under their conditions to give us money for Pelješki money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we've only 4% of the funds we planned to get out of the EU. I believe that fellow Horvat as an entrepreneur will explain it to the minister, I am sorry that he is not here, Dalic, and I believe that some positive point will come out of it, that the lesson will draw and that he will finally go in the right direction and not fall on the Doing Business List for 8 places, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62173	We have two replicas, respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62174	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to agree with this statement of yours or let's do it like this,... When Mr. Horvat was a minister to me, I didn't really care about politics, I didn't know what any party was, and I didn't care about anything at all because I was an entrepreneur, but I remembered that the Minister of Entrepreneurship came in, and I remember that day at the company telling my people, maybe somebody finally changed something because it came from the real sector, because he's an entrepreneur. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you won't believe, remove the entrepreneur and bring in the woman who's in life, but in life she hasn't had experience with the real sector, and that's why I'm mad at why everything's been late for a year and 3 months, because if the person who runs that ministry worked in the real sector, that she knows what it means to be a micro and a small entrepreneur wouldn't eventually make her think that for a year and 3 months it stands, we know that... 'Cause there's no time period where those reports were missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I agree with you, I'm sure that the Minister of the Real Sector is that this would not happen and that changes in entrepreneurship would have happened before, or that at least some of them would have happened so far we don't have them, for now only because we have the Minister's signature of 547 non-taxable duties, none of which has changed yet, nothing has ended and so on, I agree with you here. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62175	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62176	So I would agree with you that it would be a good idea to be an entrepreneur in those restaurants who knows real things where the real situation and the problems is but the fact that it is obvious that the minister should have other levers, should be good with Skegro, Greguric, should be financed by which party such as the similar world-wide Smartness, the fall could be the minister in this government, probably those were the key criteria. I expect and believe that there will be as much money from the EU as possible, that we will improve investments, that we will not fall as we have fallen on the Doing list for 8 places, that I am sorry and that when we finally enter the EU, that we will not invest less in the EU and that we will invest much more, we will invest in Croatia, because this is sad, that we poor country are more invested in the EU-common cash and with those money and rich countries invest in themselves, so much about the ability, we see in this fall, but obviously here, for a fellow Horvat who was an entrepreneur who has no place, he is sitting in the assembly benches but here for the close people who are taking the government, Dalic, there is no place for them, and that's not good, it's a bad message to entrepreneurs, investors, investors, investors, investors, and investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62177	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62178	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Bull, when we're in opposition, then we're always against it. I'm like a man who's still in business wondering why one opposition doesn't say okay, you've done this right, and this isn't good. And now I'm asking you, I see you mentioned Srđ, we remember this project, did you investigate those contracts on Srđ, and was this Srđ really in the interest of Croatia or against the interest and I wonder if anyone signed any contracts that might be paying some kind of punishment tomorrow? We're against any obstruction if we didn't say it, if it's not anyone else, then I'll always be against it. We can never go forward in this country if we're going as an opposition on either side to tear down some projects that give us some kind of development, not in some way, but in any way as soon as someone invests some money, but I see whatever project is seen in action that could be done, always from some kind of I don't know from which initiative, people are against it. I'd like the projects in Slavonia to happen, to come from the side and make something we may not have yet. It is not good that the words of the negative come out of this House all the time, that our people look at us as destructives, but we have to spread one positive energy to our citizens from here that still has something that's good. If the business minister had just said a colleague, it would be nice if some entrepreneurs were ministers who knew what they should do but also had to be responsible ministers when they sign the contract and end the contract and not when the minister signed and there is nothing from that contract, then the Croatian state pays and nothing happens to him. And such contracts, as far as I know, there's a lot of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62179	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62180	Thank you very much. Comrade Mišic, you as an opposition parliamentary representative... I believe that you understand best how it means to be in opposition, how in power, therefore, absolutely Tomislav Panenić said everything on behalf of the club MOST in his presentation about this law, all the positive things I'm sorry you didn't read, and the problem is that he won't invest in Slavonia, which in this law on support, entrepreneurs are not mentioned... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] development, so you don't mention undeveloped areas, there's a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only thing that's mentioned is golf, but not in a way, that it's written golf and reasoning, then it's okay. You get it, but they put it covered, with no explanation one sentence of golf. Of course here on purpose, I don't know, I know that the citizens of Dubrovnik are against building a project of that, I know that. I know it's down there, that both major parties, both HDZ and SDP, were together for the project. I know there are a number of initiatives and associations that I still haven't entered. But it's the fact that it's covered here, and it's covered in that part. I wish there was much more incentive here in undeveloped areas, in areas, which are empty, which are built, the state has invested a lot, in my... She invested, in the Cetitska extreme, the island of Trilj,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But they're empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they did not give here more favourable conditions and incentives for people to come to Slavonia, Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, so I would like you to listen, as counterpart Panenic said, I was so brief, and as far as the minister is concerned, I believe that here would be a much more important experience of the entrepreneurship minister, such as colleague Horvat, but Minister Dalic, who is only good with the banking sector, I know that, with Mr. Shkegro, and I know that she financed the party Smartly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62181	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, he will speak to the esteemed secretary of state Natasha Mikush Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I also take the opportunity to thank you for the content debate and to say that, of course, we will consider all constructive remarks when preparing and the final proposal for this law. The debate was long, so it is impossible to refer to each segment, but let me highlight a few elements that were mentioned through the debate and which may further clarify the intensity, in fact the amendment and addition of this law. First of all, I would just like to point out once again the figures, which were thus also highlighted in my opening presentation, which is that, through the applied projects, which are currently either approved or currently in the processing of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, is that the total value of them is, therefore, 31.5 billion kuna, therefore, investments. And through that, it's planning to open 17500 new jobs. I think we just have to keep those numbers in mind and repeat ourselves so that we know what these laws actually bring. Secondly, there was a question of how to measure efficiency, which is what we expect from this law. We expect, however, to be greater inflows of capital investments compared to these figures that I have highlighted, therefore, to increase the number of projects that we will encourage through this law. I mentioned in the introduction that our projection, that is, our assessment that this could be about 50 projects per year, worth about 1.2 billion investments themselves. This, of course, brings new jobs, which, of course, brings more income than profit taxes to the state budget, and thus economic growth itself. There was a question, related to logistics distribution centres, important point out, therefore, that trade is excluded from the application of this law. So we don't encourage trade through this law. What is also done in such centres is also some activities, which are how to say, manipulative, not in a negative sense, but the character that follows the trade itself, means repacking, branding and that is where such centres are then, according to this proposal, changes and additions can be included in the incentives under the Investment Encouragement Act. A lot of words were about golf, and I would like to make it very clear that this law, in no way points out golf as a branch that encourages it. So, the amendments and additions to this law in Art.7 talk about encouraging, therefore, projects in the tourism sector, as a sector which therefore offers high added value services and therefore mentions health tourism and congress tourism projects, nautical tourism, so recreational centres, theme parks, tourist environmental projects and all other innovative projects in the tourism segment. In terms of support, i.e. higher levels of support, areas that are more underdeveloped, or less developed, I must say that even now in the evaluation, so project applications, i.e. projects that come under this law, give us a higher amount of incentives and disbursements precisely for projects and entrepreneurs from those counties that are more underdeveloped, i.e., which are, according to the NAC level 3 development criteria, therefore, at the level of counties, fall under the regional support map in those areas which, in fact, help them to develop more successfully. So this element is already being taken into account, and entrepreneurs from these parts have the opportunity to get a bigger discharge, have the possibility of getting a larger amount of support and higher employment subsidies. There have been a lot of questions about the activation of state property, we will certainly consider as I said, proposals that go into terms, that territorially extend coverage, the activation of state property, to those counties, which are not covered in this proposal. And finally, I would like to say, in general, that since one exposure went well in the direction that the government is taking in terms of encouraging the investment climate, on the matter, therefore, creating more favourable conditions in which entrepreneurs can operate more easily and easily. That's exactly the backbone of this government's mandate. You know that since the beginning of this year, the implementation of the Action Plan for Disposal of the Economy has been in place. Most of these measures are expected to be realised by the end of this year or the first quarter of next year, while working on one systematic measurement of all the regulations in forty areas that have an impact on the economy, primarily on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs precisely with the aim of defining the following measures that we will implement in 2018, through 2019 to relieve entrepreneurs mainly of excessive paper, the stamps of unnecessary, the circumference of the tents, so all that makes business difficult for them and which could prevent them from doing what they do best, which is to produce, hire and create added value. In all the new regulations that are passed and which we refer to in this House of Highs, we do so too. an impact assessment on the small and medium-sized economy. It is therefore not possible that the rules without the approval of the Ministry of Economy as the resolution responsible for the economy for small and medium-sized enterprises should be directed to the adoption of the Government and to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. Thus, it also acts preventively in the adoption of new rules in terms of discharge in order not to adopt those rules that have an unnecessary negative effect on economic operators. We've also been working to abolish non-tax duties, also since the middle of this year, so I think that this law that we have proposed in amendments and additions to one systematic effort is precisely to relieve and create a better entrepreneurial climate, and we are aware that further efforts should be made in this direction. In the end, let me just finish the numbers, given that there has been a lot of talk about eu support and the duration of the proceedings. I think it has been publicly pointed out on several occasions that we are aware of these procedures are long-term and that we are working to make them faster and more efficient. I would say only to conclude that the Ministry of Economy as a competent resolution for the use of the funds from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion has so far granted 1645 support to entrepreneurs, entrepreneurial projects worth EUR 2.6 billion and that in 2017 this was four times more compared to the previous year. This is not a negative balance compared to the contribution Croatia is paying in the EU budget and we will, of course, continue to try to make that data as good as possible. Thank you very much again for your support, and here I am sure you will support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62183	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62184	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Investment Encouragement Act, first reading, P.Z. No. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, 1st Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Encouragement Act and 2nd all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 99 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 15 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62185	We now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, first reading, P.Z. number 214. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Protection, the Environment and Nature, the Committee on the Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62186	Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The present draft proposes to suspend the validity of the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, the termination of the work of the Centre and the regulation of legal effects relating to the takeover by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, the acquisition of equipment, means of work, rights and obligations of the Centre, the completion of procedures under way and the takeover of workers. In accordance with the 2017 National Reform Programme and the objective set to increase the effectiveness of the public administration body through a reduction in the number of legal persons whose activities and competences overlap in the energy sector have been undertaken to optimise the number of bodies with public powers. Thus, in order to act effectively in the energy sector in this year, the Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products has already been attached to the Agency for Hydrocarbons, and the next measure refers to the coordination of activities related to the termination of the work of the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, which is also the proposal for this law before you, which is the subject of this law. The current law prescribes the work of CEI as a legal person with public powers, which was established primarily to provide professional support and participate in the development of a proposal for an investment programme strategy, and to participate in Public Private Partnership Projects. As there are legal persons with active public powers in the field of investments and the public private partnership sector in the Republic of Croatia, there is a overlap with those bodies. The centre also failed to achieve sustainability of its activities through independently launched investment projects or through cooperation projects with the local community where it performed as a consultant. It should be stressed that investment activities in the energy sector, especially those on projects of particular interest, are taking place through the energy ministry and that there will be no discontinuity in this regard. The ministry will also take over other activities related to attracting investments from the energy sector and providing professional support to other bodies related to development and improving the potential for attracting investment in the energy sector. As regards other activities carried out by CEIs, in particular those from the energy sector segments of renewable energy and energy efficiency where CEI appears as a national coordination body. They will also be taken over by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. The national co-ordination body will be an independent organisational unit within the resolution ministry. Such an arrangement is not unusual in small-market countries such as the Republic of Croatia, and especially given that energy efficiency in its implementation includes more sectors such as transport, construction, agriculture, industry and the energy sector itself, and it is necessary to ensure effective inter-resorship cooperation. The Ministry of Environment and Energy will take over property, equipment, means of work, financial resources, rights and obligations, and workers... This will also strengthen the administrative capacity of the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From the point of view of the reduction of management staff for one management employee for 2018 and 2019. Savings of 166 thousand 150 kuna are expected annually. The termination of the lease of a business space reduces the material costs for 2018, 2019, which is expected to save up to 702,000 kuna per year, and, in conclusion, the draft law proposes to repeal the Law on the Monitoring of the Energy Sector of Investments, which results in the termination of the work of the Centre itself in order to achieve the rationalisation of business, optimisation of the process and the organisational structure. That would be all of the ministry and I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62187	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Paneic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62188	Thank you, well-respected chairman, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think we have before us one draft law on the abolition of an institution where they are above all agreeable. So the suspension initiative was still created in Milanovic's government, it was confirmed in Oreshkovic's government. The proposal is finally what we've all been praying for here for all the peripetias that they've been following means just passing the law, because in front of us and I'm going to say plainly so that the Most Independent Lists supports this law and I hope that as soon as possible they will come to another reading. In fact, here's a little bit in the interview and with the secretary of state I don't know what he was doing in two readings at all because he's very formal, there are no negative consequences. It has long been established that private-public partnership workers are moving to AIK, those who are from the energy sector will move into the ministry in the area they accept. Here and as minister back then I know that the greatest resistance was precisely the fact that in that agency there were very high wages. And many of these employees have actually expressed their anger and said that they will no longer be in the public sector, but that they will go to some private, that we will lose all their knowledge that is accumulated. But there seems to be a lot of knowledge there, and efficiency is very low because I personally don't know any more serious project that came from that center and it's invested very much. What I do know is that all the time they've been pulling back just the center's media activity. If you remember from trying to buy a car, here we are now and back to the current Commissioner in Agrokor Mr Ramljak who at the time had 24000 kuna incomes where he was a member of the Management Board. He was an adviser to the then Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic. He was on the Supervisory Board, so a pleasant life was practically meant for those at the very center as I recall the first amount was a million kuna, so then it grew to five, so it was to 14 million. I think the grants from the budget were increasing, burdening state-owned companies, HEP Plinarro who paid significant amounts. And then we really come to the point that at one point someone has to say what your effect is, the real effect you've achieved. And I, who am often critic and minister of the Vrdoljaks, say this time that here's his initiative to close this thing, is something that I have supported and I will support in the future. What was still at the end of the centre was related, that one of the institutions where the Agrokor personnel came in, if you remember Mr. Dragan Markink, who was then, I think we indicate that we have moved this from the position of the chairman of the board, the director of PIK Vrbovac as president of this centre. I mean, what's really comparing and the importance of PIC itself and Vrbovac's coming, then, in fact, it's just a question of what motivated someone with such good, quality, managerial functions to move into a center like this. What is particularly important is that we still need to work, help, organise investments that will be linked to energy in the Republic of Croatia cannot allow the investment to go away. We cannot allow there to be investments that are harmful to the Republic of Croatia. We can see that there are numerous affairs involved. I will primarily list what I personally did as a then-resoring minister was, and that is the use of stimulating means for cogenerations where, fictitiously through cogeneration models actually forced projects and because of that and my negative point of view was and then that must be found a new model of functioning, so where I said and openly support... For example in Osijek, a new thermal block to be but not in that amount of value because it would actually be very expensive for the state and would not be useful enough for residents in the city of Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we have again the issue of the thermal power plant in Peru which was also cogenerational by that, I see also the role of both the secretary of state and its associates to look for good solutions that will increase production, this production to be sustainable, it is very difficult for these energy prices to find quality investment and taking into account its long-term long-term knowledge, it needs a very careful monitoring of the situation and in the environment, and since the key functions of this will now be integrated into the ministry is one even greater responsibility and I am glad to show also in the impact assessment, that the savings are at some 700 000 kuna in this year, but that means already when the whole system is practically reduced to a minimum. I would not continue to prolong, but I have expressed my support and I hope that there will be as much activity as possible that will make the state more effective, that there will be no unnecessary liabilities as this agency has been, as well as those that may at some point seem necessary, useful, should do a regular impact analysis and if it turns out that they have not achieved their function, should not be on their own if you have launched the initiative, it should be honest with yourself, so it should be stopped in time, and also sometimes it should be political responsibility and say here we can no longer allow it to spend public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62189	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Darko Horvat, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62190	Thank you, Vice-President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, So I will not repeat what my colleague Panenic said because, in a large majority with everything, therefore, one of the institutions in the Republic of Croatia which was sufficiently formed in 2012, an institution that did not justify its existence, an institution which, in its legislative framework, in its tactical list of its objectives, did not get any results in any of these objectives, activities that were at that point within the legislative framework, I would say assigned to the investment centre in the energy sector, complete overlap, and what is most important to conclude, I agree with my colleague Panenic, but she, too, who created him that is unnecessary and since 2015 is already in force, the conversation, the agreement and the negotiation of him. I welcome the decision to remove it at this time, to move its powers to a secretariat which deals with energy at the Ministry of Environment and Energy but also by abolishing this institution I am sure that the correlation between other institutions whose competences overlap, so today in RJ, is aware that we do not have a small segment of energy efficiency and renewable energy, which are left for private sector investment, experience a lot of administrative obstacles and overlaps between national institutions with public authorities and that there is a beginning of the investment or its completion. It is almost and irrelevant that, by removing one management post, the state budget will experience certain savings but I think that the real savings will feel both experienced and private and the public sector by actuating the administrative obstacles that entrepreneurs or investors must meet at the moment in order to skip them both in that time and that financial sphere. The HDZ Club, as has just been said here and from the aspect of the MOST Club, gives full support to the transformation of ingenuity into institutions that are operating today and exist and that we are certain that these tasks will be fulfilled both more flexible and far more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62191	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I wish you good night and I will see you tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item tomorrow will be the Proposal for a Law implementing EU regulation No. 511/214 on harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Fair division of profit resulting from their use in the Union, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 224. Good night. Session interrupted at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-23-0.u62192	Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, investment, first reading, P.Z. 2014 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, 1st proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, Investments and 2nd Comments and Proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. It finds that most votes, 111 for, 0 abstentions and 3 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We're done arguing after the break and now we're moving on to today's agenda. As I have announced the first point is - Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 511/2014. on coordination measures for the users of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and the fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use in the Union, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 224. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. We have a respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Mile Horvat. Here you go.
