ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24510	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing the plenary session. The first item on the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Gender Equality, first reading, P.Z.E.BR.68. A colleague of mine called first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24511	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the SDP Club please pause for 5 minutes to warn of a possible problem in the education system where many children with developmental difficulties could be left without help in continuing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24512	Thank you. A fellow representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24513	The Honorable President also on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists I request a five-minute break. He would like to talk about the problem of building a passenger terminal on ships with circular trips to Luce Gruz, Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24514	Thank you. A fellow member of the House called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24515	The esteemed president on behalf of the HDS Club, the HDSSB, the HSLS, is also looking for a five-minute break to point out the association's funding problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24516	Thank you. Hrelja's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24517	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement, I am looking for a business break of 10 minutes to say something about additional health insurance and anomalies that are currently happening around it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24518	Thank you. Unless there are other interested deputies, I'm setting a 10-minute break. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I'm asking the representative to explain the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24520	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'll read you one of the many messages I received during yesterday. "I am the mother of a young man of 17 who has cerebral paralysis and 100% disability. He's a second-class student of the Dubrava Education and Education Center. Tin attends a course for the management reference, given the difficulties of the first basic. He always had an assistant in class, and in high school. Through the association "Oko" Tin and several students at the school received an assistant to be financed by the Ministry of Science and Education, but the payment was lagging behind. And the 31st January association must declare bankruptcy and fire assistants. I'm interested in how Tin will go to school anyway, we've only had four hours of paid assistants, although Tin has at least six hours each day." Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll use today's break to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia about the serious problem facing associations that provide helpers in teaching for children with difficulties. It is very easy, and it is certain that if something is not done within the next five days that children with developmental difficulties will not only Tin who has cerebral paralysis but also many other children whose education is largely dependent on the help of assistants in continuing without the same ones. Because the Ministry of Science and Education did not ensure payment of salaries for 12 months, and if such a situation is repeated in January and February, the association will have to fire its assistants in the course, or break up their work contracts with them, and the children will be left without helpers, all because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet adopted a regulation on the deployment of lottery funds from which helpers in continuing children with difficulties are financed. I wonder if children with difficulties are not the priority of this government, what is the priority of the Minister of Science and Education? I wonder if we're so much, if you're so socially insensitive that you don't really realize how many assistants in continuing education and living and facilitating everyday living to those children, I wonder what the government really means to us. What we really need from the Ministry of Science and Education if the only thing we've seen from him is that he's the generator of the affair and that he's the generator of the problem. No one has the right to prevent children with developmental difficulties from continuing assistants, no one. We fought for years to provide every child with an assistant in the class. We have fought for this and not to pay them out of the state budget, but to be able to use EU funds to do so. And now because of one regulation, because of irresponsibility, due to a lack of response on time, due to negligentness, because of the lack of empathy, everything we have at our disposal does not come to the assistant in the follow-up, there are no children with difficulties, and in a few days these children will be left without personal assistants, not with their own guilt. And associations under all laws will have to simply declare bankruptcy and carry out performances over themselves because they have not met one of the main preconditions, which is paying their workers a salary. Is that the government pro-European? Is that a socially sensitive government? Is that the government where education comes first? I don't think so, and I think until it's too late, there's still a few more days. Mrs. Murganic was able to provide funds in one day for assistants to persons with disabilities. I ask the Government to cut off this shock, infidelity, uncertainty, fear that exists in numerous education and education centres, among many parents of children with difficulties among many assistants, among many associations, and to do what should have already been done to secure salaries for assistants in continuing children with difficulties. We can't hide things like this. We can't ignore things like this. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Please do something for the next 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24521	Thank you. The next club of representatives who called for a break is the club of representatives of independent lists. On their behalf, Maro Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24522	I would like to thank the esteemed president, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll be very brief in my presentation. I just want to briefly draw attention to one topic that I was already talking about in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, which is a topic related to the process of building a terminal for the reception of passengers from ships on circular voyages at the port of Gruž in Dubrovnik. Namely, in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament and we in Dubrovnik through our candidate list of voters “Srđ je grad” MOST independent lists and local HDZ with our partners have advocated the transparency of this procedure to grant concessions and not only one such procedure but also the fact that we consider that key, strategic resources owned by local self-government units and local self-government areas should be managed by companies owned by these cities themselves because that is the only way to ensure a sustainable development of the local community. Therefore, we were a little concerned that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure had annulled the decision of the Port Authority of Dubrovnik to annul the concession for a cruise terminal in Dubrovnik's Luka Gruz with Dubrovnik International Cruise Port Investment. Given the fact that we do not have enough information about this by believing that the ministry is still keeping things under control, I would like from this position to ask the competent Minister Butkovic to, in the interests of the public, in the interests of all Dubrovnikers, but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the shortest time, to report further to the public on what is the further steps in this problem, so concessioning the port area of Luke Dubrovnik, ports of national importance and procedures grant concessions to build terminals for passengers from ships on circular voyages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24523	The HDS/HSLS-HDSSB club also requested a break. On their behalf, Agent Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24524	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I asked for a break to warn about the problems of associations throughout Croatia, especially associations in smaller units of local self-government where smaller funds are being set for the functioning of associations. And then I went to do a little research on what everything the association had to do to get a few kunas from the budget. Here's this documentation right here, it's a request file of three thousand kuna from the budget of the local self-government unit. All of this is the result of the 2014 Association Act on the basis of which a regulation on the methods, criteria, standards, financing of associations was adopted in 2015. And I have to say that definitely this regulation kills the work of associations in local communities, that people give up engagements in associations, that they just don't want to collect those dozens of statements, certificates, forms, I don't know everything anymore, that we're just coming into a crazy situation. It's easier for you to run for president of the state, less you need confirmation, a statement, a form than you need for some 500 kuna fund in a municipality that has a million, two kuna budget. It is my request to the Government to urgently revise this regulation, to create classes, to determine what level of any certificate that is not needed at all or forms up to about 10 thousand, which is a level of up to 50,000, which is the level of those who have a million kuna annual budget and receive it from the budget of some local self-government or state. We have situations that definitely need to fill out the same forms, same confirmation if you're looking for 500 kuna or if you're looking for a million kunas. And it's destroying all of this together one system that enriches every local environment. I gave it to a colleague who is not a member of an association and is not burdened with this problem, I am a little bit because I am also a local official, so then I'm a little bit more familiar with it, and I have to admit that it's a lot of nerves when I see what people have to do and how they're harassed and I asked him to record my condition at RS level by local self-government units. We've come up with information that different patterns are still being determined, so we have a situation where we have a request of five forms, all the way to 14 forms, let's add to that confirmation, statements, I don't know what they're not, we come up with a bunch of files like this. She told me a colleague like this, she says my opinion is that when I looked at all of this and filmed it so that it would be easier to adopt a child than to get a thousand kunas from some local self-government budget. Therefore, I really appeal to the Government on behalf of all these associations to amend this 2015 regulation urgently, which is really harmful and which destroys the work of associations in our environments, especially in those environments, I stress, which is often spoken of here by most declaratively, and we do not do anything in rural areas in municipalities and smaller cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24525	HNS-HSU's club also reported for a break, their representative, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24526	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Last week, a public tender for the insurance of employees of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia for additional health insurance was completed. There are about 16 thousand of them and he won a public tender or a more favourable offer given by a private insurance company and you will not believe the difference in offer is 20 June or 3,200 kuna at the level of the month or the total premium is 6 million 142 thousand kuna. And now I should commend it because it's a competition because it's got a private security guard because the Department of Defense got a lower price for 3,200 kuna a month. But I'm wondering something else, so why do we have double rules? Why does HZZO need to buy cards at the AKD, card of supplementary and compulsory health insurance, according to the State Audit? Why can't the ministry at the same price or at a price that's 0.6% different from this one, why can't the ministry be with a public insurance company? I know this is about the healthiest members of our society in condition, the army, young people, trained people, but whether or not the public insurance company will excuse whether the private insurance company will compensate tomorrow for the costs of helicopter transport with a private insurance company. Whether the private insurance company will have secured these persons and when the state does not pay regularly as it does not pay for all those who are obliged to pay, for those below the income price, for students, for disabled persons, etc. So I'm asking you if there's a public security devastation here anyway because here, the public security guard turns 2 billion and 200 a year and takes his healthy tissue means one serious attack on him. And how is the offer made at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, i.e. this other offer turned out to be only 20 lipes smaller and both are below the price. Impossible, regardless of the healthiest population, the price can be 60 percent lower than some normal price of 70 kuna of supplementary health insurance. Wasn't it possible that the director who was otherwise known for hiring 230 people from his nearby and wider surroundings in 3 months? What's going on here, and is this normal I'm asking myself, but I'm asking you, is this socially useful, is this a public interest, or is it really aimed at decommissioning one of the two solidarity institutes among the generations? The public insurance company can survive and can offer the elderly and the sick the price of supplemental health insurance of 70 kuna only if there are all generations inside and healthier young and let's go healthier and sicker medium age and sicker and older inside. Then it can hold the price of 70 kuna, it can hold on to mass, it can hold on to 1 million and 600,000 insurance companies otherwise the price goes up, otherwise health care for old, sick and poor becomes unreachable. I'm warning you of a possible process like this. I think that, in all our public procurements, we should assess the social benefits and that if the difference in the offer is less than 1%, the one that calls the tender would have the right to conclude a business with what is socially useful and that maintains systems of intergenerational solidarity in life because a country that, based on solidarity, has no good among generations, has no bright future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24527	Thank you. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24539	Mr. President, because of the way we conduct the session and the prevention of the relentless events we witnessed on Friday for the same reasons, so that this is not repeated, please stop on behalf of the club SDP for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24540	It's been approved for 10 minutes. Thank you. It's 10:00.55. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 11.05 HOURS]] After the break, I would like to ask the SDP Representatives' Club and, on their behalf, Agent Gordan Maras to explain the reason for the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have asked for a break that is not strictly related to the topic of today's debate, but it is crucial for democracy in Croatia, for the way we will work, for our citizens and citizens who are looking at this, for those who expect their representatives to discuss the topics that concern them and who are interested in them, to fight for their views and to be active in representing them, for people to see their representatives doing what they were elected to the Croatian Parliament. I answered now, although yesterday after a whole-day debate when I saw the flow, I hoped that you as Parliament President and the parliamentary leadership that is changing here, chairing our sessions, learned a lesson from what happened on Friday. That it is not good to prevent people from speaking in the Croatian Parliament, that it is not good to subjectively interpret the Rules of Procedure and to call on a Rules of Procedure that can never be sufficiently defined to determine exactly what extent a representative must be tied to, whether it is very attached, whether it is a little connected, whether it is touching the subject. So that way, the Rules of Procedure will never be able to define it as much as we do. And then we have a situation where apparently HDZ doesn't want a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the topics that bother them. On Friday, whenever I mentioned Prime Minister Plenkovic, please look at this speaker four times in the name of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Vice President Reiner, a representative of the HDZ leadership of the Parliament interrupted me as if there were no triggers. When you say Reiner, God, when you say Plenkovic Reiner reacts. So on this side, it is obvious that HDZ is not responsible for talking here about the issues that HDZ is doing wrong, which Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing wrong, which all Croatian citizens see and want to choke on the only possible place the SDP can talk about. ... Oh, Mr. Culey, you didn't walk bloody underpants so we wouldn't be able to speak in this House here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Fight for it, sir! Fight for it, Mr. Culey, and lift me up and support me in it, not make it impossible for us to do it in the story. And on that side, it is clear to me that HDZ does not want it, but this is one of the few places after HRT fell under HDZ censorship this is one of the few places where we can now, in direct transfer to Croatian citizens, tell what we think. And now, in this way, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Reiner, and now Mr. Petrov, the President of the Parliament, is trying to impose ourselves on us not to say anything other than what he thinks we should say and what's defined closely, closely related to the law, so that our citizens don't hear what HDZ is doing wrong and what the Most is doing wrong. We can't let that happen. And we wanted to protect a colleague from HDZ who had an excellent debate and talked about exactly these topics that mattered. And finally, you see that we care about discussing clubs from other agents. What makes that impossible? What we will surely continue to insist on, the Assembly that was established, the new Croatian Parliament on 30 May 1990, this is the 9th Assembly. So far, no such parliamentary violence has occurred most of the majority over the minority, that it cannot be spoken. Look, we're gonna do it every day, we're gonna do it tirelessly, we're gonna do it at all costs, because that's what our voters expect us to do. And you do scandals, you disable our speeches, you do what you think you have to do, and then you'll see how the citizens react to it. We do not want to be silent in the Croatian Parliament, we do not want what HDZ says in the Croatian Parliament. We want Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament to hear and believe me, they will be heard and the SDP will allow them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24543	Thank you. Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24545	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club because Mr. Maras abused the pause to attack exclusively HDZ. We want to be on behalf of the club, so I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24546	I'd like a moment, please. Mr. Maras, since you are calling for freedom of speech, may I say something in my defense? Do you allow it to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure? ... I'd have to ask. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think you've misjudged the reminder I gave my colleague Vuksanovic. So at no point did I in any way assess the content. The only intervention that was mine was that, through the Institute of Replication, parliamentary representatives could look back at the presentation of other parliamentary representatives. And that was all my intervention. I have not responded to the content, but I would like to commend the exhibition because it is just the colleague of the Vuxanovic state in the right sense of the topic. As for the direction of the debate itself, and also to Mr Bunjec when he described the whole context at the time he described it, I did not interrupt it or uttered a warning but asked him if possible, after describing the context of the debate itself, then direct the story to the debate on the bill. So I did not end freedom of speech, and I would not want you to use it that way to display it this way, but really to use all the opportunities of the Rules of Procedure and to actually do a constructive discussion in such a way. Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24547	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24548	Representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24549	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a five-minute break for an apology from women that this debate has gone to male bickering and the creation of a militant consciousness, instead of discussing a subject that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24550	Thank you. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24551	I'm looking for a break for the same reasons that requested HDZ and MOST.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24552	Thank you. If that's it, then I'm setting a ten-minute break. Thank you. It's 11:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] The first to take a break has been reported by the HDZ Representatives' Club. On their behalf, MP Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24554	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, we volunteered for the break because we see that the previous party was also a form of manipulation because it was used to criticise a party and it was not an intensity. And also, of course, given gender equality, Croatia has been a signator of the decades of the Convention and I need no protection, although I thank colleagues who have shown themselves to be gentlemen. Why did this happen today? Well, because individuals in this esteemed House actually have only one goal and that's performance and manipulation, circus and spectacle. And we know that manipulation is a very powerful weapon, and when combined with pulsism, then it affects the widest circle of viewers or audiences. However, I would say that people with a certain level of civic responsibility, culture, intellectual seriousness, and respect for the traits of their homeland can in fact only be appalled by these uncultural performances and in fact by the abuse of this esteemed home. There is one proverb that says, "I am giving greater meaning to my own worthlessness by assuring everything around me." I hope that this new ethical code will still introduce certain improvements, but unfortunately the fact is that home education can't make up for anything. Likewise, if the goal of political action is primarily a spectacle and defilement of the system, then there is no help. It is currently in HDZ power, so it is generalised that all that comes harmful from society is the appearance of HDZ. But let's ask ourselves, what happens when the SDP is in power? So does this political option stop making sense? And with regard to populist debates for individual MPs, it would be really better and it is my personal advice to have more physical activity, which is very healthy. And for those especially prone to verbal conflicts, there wouldn't be a bad paintball, some kind of video game. So the assembly is no place for some forms of energy consumption. And as I said earlier, I don't want to defend anyone, and I don't want to judge anyone any less, but I honestly think that under the circumstances in which we are now, it's really the most difficult to be a normal, cultural and educated representative. And times have changed, so what they do, sometimes people are ashamed of it, they're obviously proud of it today. And it's said, "A man can't hide from his own conscience if he has one." And in the end, I have to say that I'm really, really genuinely concerned about those young people who see some kind of example in first-class manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24555	Thank you. HNS's club, HSU, also called for a break. On behalf of their representative, Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24556	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS and HSU Club does not want to participate in these SDP and HDZ wars related to their discussions, and we are looking for constructive and useful discussions. The Rules of Procedure we have is a letter on paper to be implemented and to be implemented in the work. Running a session is actually a skill, and these are the skills learned, which can't be known from day one, and can't every first day know the best way to run a session. We have received a new President-in-Office of the Parliament, we are aware that our President-in-Office of the Parliament has no previous parliamentary experience here in Parliament, and therefore we have no doubt that he has, we have no doubt that his skills are good and better than we have learned about it, so some of our suggestions are that we should be able to follow the debate and that we should be able to structure a debate for us whenever there is any point on the agenda that the President of the Parliament comes to us in the morning with a proposal for the structure of the session in which it should take place and in which way we ourselves should structure our own debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24557	Thank you, counsel Puh. The club of representatives of the Independent Lists also called for a break. On their behalf, representative Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24558	Dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists I apologize primarily to all women, all women who thanks to today's presented militant almost as well as to a man torn apart but in a historical sense male consciousness today suppressed on the margins of hearingfulness and recognition. Today we had a chance to apologize to women and create a better world. To apologize to women for all the things in history that seemed to be on and on all those models, the ways we discriminated against them. However, here in this assembly there was an expression of not the identity of a changing world, but the identity of a party in the most rigid form. The party if it is healthy will develop party programs that will be in function of humanity. Parties that are not a healthy party programme will be at the level of imitation of the mind that belongs to man. Well, party people will think exclusively within the framework of what the parties tell them, and that's when they lost their humanity. A man by nature belongs to the power of will. It's readily manifested as being free, agreeing to something. I expected that today we would agree to a new civilization, a changing civilization that would recognize the reality of a woman. We didn't do that. We have agreed to the decisions of party bodies that will always defend some powerful father figure called party president or otherwise. The club of the Independent Lists refuses to view reality in this way. The club of the Independent Lists today wants to talk and discuss models of a more efficient, more efficient, more realistic recognition of women in history and in the history of what will only become in these areas of Croatia's history as a viable environment in this truly militant consciousness and militant speech are all lost, healthy parliamentaryism is lost because parties do not develop. The parties have members of children who play. In the game, we played the opportunity to grow up. It's not a real and healthy game. This healthy parliamentaryism should stick to the agenda and topics we are discussing. We make laws. This example may also show that we really need to moderate our presentations. Because when it's not modernized then there's an escalation of the negativity that a man carries inside him, and he's not able to deal with it. I repeat again on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, we apologize to all women for testifying from the position of the better world, so from their position about what we are able to do in the world, and we should not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24559	Thank you, Representative Vučetić. The SDP advocates' club also called for a break. On their behalf, Agent Arsen Bauk will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24560	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to admit, I enjoy these acrobatics. We don't want to participate in wars, then look back at everything we've said, we're still being criticized and still so pacifist continues. So things are very clear. We reacted the moment we assessed that the president of the Parliament had unwarrantedly interrupted the HDZ representative. And to be direct, and we thought when they did this to HDZ what they were just doing to us and that's why we reacted. So, we are fighting for freedom of speech in the Parliament and we are fighting for the fact that the presidents of the session do not cause any further tension among MPs who, in a specific case, eventually escalate to someone who needs to be out of the hall. So we don't want to pay attention to someone being taken out of the hall in a way that doesn't get into that situation. All the tensions that arose in this session were caused solely because of the fact that we said something to each other, but because some people were not allowed to say what they needed to say. According to my assessment, the chairman did very well in Mr. Bunjc's case when after a certain time he asked him to express his understanding of returning to the topic and he listened to it as I think he made a significant mistake by breaking up at the very beginning in the first sentence of his colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, from the HDZ club. The relationship between the Most and the HDZ Club will not be further elaborated on this, but this is what I have already announced to the Constitutional Committee, so I, Mr. President, suggest that the Committee on the Constitution's testimony that we no longer discuss this issue whether you were or were wrong. I'm familiar with your opinion, and I think you're right. My opinion and ours believe that you are not, so the Constitution Committee will resolve it tomorrow. I am very interested in how the HDZ colleagues will vote to interrupt their colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24561	I hope after this we can get back to the very point of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24592	Here you are, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am asking you nicely on behalf of the HDZ Club for a five-minute break to discuss the subject of assistants or assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties on a lot of interventions from our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24594	That break was on the subject this morning. Right on that one, but about that one. But I will, of course, allow it. But let's finish if you agree with the replicas. Thank you. Now, at the request of the distinguished representative Lukačić here, she asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24596	Mr. Vice President would like to join me in the subject Mrs. Lukacic brought forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24597	All right, then we'll continue at three o'clock with a two-club break. Thank you very much. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24598	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of HDZ, she was requested by her distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I want to talk to you about is an alleged problem that came up in public and today there's been talk about in this House of Commons. And these are teaching assistants for students with developmental difficulties. The subject arises, namely, that the assistants in the follow-up did not get paid, so it is concluded that this government does not take care of education primarily and then children with developmental difficulties. What I'm saying is that it's ugly and simply embarrassing to listen to stories like this and quotes like this that are absolutely incorrect. All associations that have assistants were able to receive information that the funds would be paid during today and tomorrow. So it was already known that some associations had information about it, and that was not what the problems were about. In particular, the contracts concluded by June of this year do not specify any date until which those funds must be paid off. The Ministry of Associations can pay off if there are funds in that month for several months, so the associations themselves will allocate that compensation because it is not a salary, so there are funds per pilot project, so the associations will determine how they will pay their assistants. But the important thing is that the funds will be paid today for both December and January. Therefore, there is no point in saying that continuing assistants will not be able to continue working with children with developmental difficulties. It would be good if, before receiving such information, we were to verify whether it is true and what should be said, rather than causing a storm in the public that children with developmental difficulties will be left without their assistants. So here, and from here, I would ask my colleagues and colleagues when they want to talk about any rights regarding persons with disabilities to check it out. It would be good because then we wouldn't make a mess, then we wouldn't be here after, all morning people call me and ask if it's true that our assistants won't get paid. It is still January, so in January they will be paid for both December and January. Therefore, there is no concern, and we cannot talk about this government not taking care of education. As it is said in the government programme and it is written that education is a priority and education of people with disabilities I think we have shown that it is a priority. Last week, we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in which we laid the groundwork so that a rule on assistants could be adopted in teaching for students with developmental difficulties in order to finally standardise. Whoever has the right to an assistant or assistant in the class and to remove the obligation from the associations once, so that associations do not have to pay those fees, but that the ministry takes care of everything. After we adopt a rule that will soon go to public counseling, we will be able to talk about one service, therefore one right, not a service that the association will perform but a right of students with developmental difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24600	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Stanku also requested the SDP MPs' club, a respected counterpart Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDP Club, I asked for a break this morning to speak on behalf of parents of children with developmental difficulties and associations about the problem they face. The problem was next. Today, on January 26, 2017, several days by the end of the month, and the salaries or associations were unable to pay the salaries to the assistants for the reasons that the ministry had not paid them by today’s end of the year. And the wages for the assistants for the December are not paid. Associations facing the problem wrote to the ministry. Yesterday, the ministry's response was as follows: "Dear sir, I will not say who, paying the fourth war on funds to associations providing continuing assistant services will be carried out after the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a regulation on the criteria for determining users and how to distribute part of the gambling income for 2017 as funds are paid to associations from gambling revenues. Please be patient and thank you for your understanding. Hearty greeting, Katarina Railway Master of English and linguistics, Minority Service and students with special needs, Management for Standards Strategy of Special Programmes of the Ministry of Science and Education." This is not the only answer that has gone towards associations in this form. So the answer was not patient, the funds will be paid during today or tomorrow but be patient until the regulation is passed. Last year's regulation on the allocation of lottery funds was adopted in April, and that is what worried the associations, because by April they co-finance income salaries cannot. I wasn't talking about one association, I was talking about four associations I contacted that have the same problem. I was talking here this morning about the Dubrava Education and Education Centre, but the same problem is the Slava Raskaj Centre, Vinko Bek. All information has been verified. But that's less important now, but I had to say it for the truth, because here, obviously after today's morning, the seriousness of this problem and the consequences that he might have to solve. And I'm glad that it reacted and that the regulation wasn't pending, because the government had a session today, but it didn't pass the regulation. So someone at the ministry is simply, I mean, this is how it's funded, they haven't answered anything wrong, but the funds have been found somewhere from another item, so it'll be refunded when the lottery, lottery funds are deployed to the ministry. But the truth is, I had to tell these facts. What's important is that the students with the difficulties are relieved. Their parents were relieved because the assistants for children with developmental difficulties would not be questioned or questioned anymore. Here's what I can say that I'm glad you reacted. The opposition is here to propose, to criticise, but also to respond in time. Because we could and could not raise this question, and I'm afraid that then, that you as a government and a resolution ministry would have much, much greater damage. So our obligation was with this information today to come out here and appeal to the government that our solution in 24, within 24 hours. And I'm glad that the government didn't deny the problem, that is, you have now tried to deny the problem but has corrected the injustice that could have been done to children with difficulties and their parents. Everything else, now we can compete politically here. I read you an e-mail that officially went from the ministry, from the official administration to the users of the associations. The answer was not that the funds would be paid or that everything would develop with its dynamics. It's all clear here, but I'm saying at this point it doesn't matter anymore. You realize you have a problem, you've decided to deal with it, you've got to get rid of it, and you've got to make sure that this doesn't happen anymore, that things are solved 5 to 12, when panic spreads among those most vulnerable groups of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-26-0.u24602	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for this explanation on behalf of the SDP club.
