ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38687	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the performance of the child in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38688	Thank you. All right, the other one was a colleague of Panenic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38689	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists for 10 minutes on the subject of a delay in implementing measure 19.2, that is Operation of Local Action Groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38690	Thank you. The third is Honorable fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38691	The SDP Club is asking a 10-minute break to discuss the purpose of changing the name of Marshal Tito's Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38692	Thank you. I'm a colleague of the Hill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38693	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to talk about health debt, in line with additional health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38694	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Dear colleague of Petrijevčan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38695	Dear President, we're looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club, regarding the final judgments of a boy who needs to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38696	Thank you, too. So we have five requests for a break. We'll continue at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] He is the first respected colleague of Branimir Bunjac, the Advocacy of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38698	Thank you, President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, in Split, a child who literally raised the entire Croatian public is being carried out. It is the intention of taking away the seven-year-old boy Cesare Avenati from Croatia according to verdicts on the alleged kidnapping and trust of the father's custody. Cesaressa Avenati was born in 2009 in the extramarital community of Nina Kulus and Alessandra Avenatia. The couple split up in 2011, and the mother went with the child to Croatia, which was reported by the father as a kidnapping. A search was followed for the mother and a long-standing court case in which a number of contradictory judgments were made. For example, the Italian court asks the child to return, the Croatian Municipal Court to stay, the Croatian County Court to have the child returned, but together with the mother, etc. Finally, the judgment of the Italian court, which had no mother’s presence, decided to return the child to his father even though the verdict was illegal. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights is being held disputed under the Hague Convention on the Civil-Legal aspects of child abduction, which Croatia ratified in 1991. Article 16 of the Convention states that a court may not rule on custody before a sentence is adopted in accordance with the Convention. Therefore, the verdict is unilateral, and the psychosocial skills of a child who, among other things, is not given the right to declare all that he has the right under Article 13 of the Convention. For the matter to be more interesting in the whole case was included also Italian Senator Aldo Di Biagio who requested the establishment of a joint commission that should be working on the gradual implementation of the operation. He notes that the situation is very delicate, and accordingly it is necessary to act with caution in order to avoid disrupting child and mother relations due to a mistake. He further states that the father should have the opportunity to see his son, but not in a way that the child will be torn away from the mother and the roots as well as the life he has been taught, as this can leave significant consequences to the child. Among other things, he is appealing that this case is not being observed solely on the legal side. It is important to know that the child does not speak Italian, that he lives beautifully in the family of his mother along with his grandparents and throughout his family, attends primary school in Split. He has just graduated first grade and has the support of all his parents from his class to stay for the next school year in Croatia. In addition, the child and mother have public support. They founded the face page "Save Little Cesare" which has brought together 47,000 visitors to this moment. An online petition was launched a few days ago. In those few days, more than 10,000 signatures have been collected. Currently, at 9pm and 50 minutes before the performance in front of the house in Pujanka 71, Split, there are hundreds of Croatian citizens who came from all over Croatia. They came from Slavonia from Istria from Rijeka from Zagreb from Zagorje to Split to oppose it, therefore. It is important to think about why they came and we should ask ourselves why such a crowd of citizens are in Split today, which is why so many citizens are today following what is happening there, and not one hour before the implementation of the operation has no official reaction from Croatian institutions. For this reason, I call on the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament to consider the idea of Italian colleagues, so the Italian MPs of parliament on the establishment of a joint commission, and the competent authorities to stop the exercise until they adopt the acquis under The Hague Convention and additional skills. Among other things, even if the judgment would benefit the father according to Article 13. The Convention Croatia has the right to refuse to give up a child if, I quote, "There is a serious danger that a return will expose the child to physical danger or psychological trauma or otherwise bring the child into an unfavourable position." Dear Representatives, let us protect the interests of little Cesare. This is a case where the credibility of our institutions breaks, this is a test we can't fail on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38699	Thank you. The second debate was held by Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38700	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to speak on behalf of the club today about the delay and this significant delay in implementing measures 19.2 of rural development relating to projects of local action groups. They are not projects of local action groups, they are projects of all entities in the area covered by local action groups. I would only say through the data of 56 local action groups over 90% of the area of the Republic of Croatia, over 57% of the population, 531 units of local self-government. It just tells you what the range is, actually the surface of people where the activities should be carried out and we 460 million kuna stands, I'll tell you blocked for various bureaucratic procedures that take place both at the Ministry of Agriculture and at the paying agency. If we know that the tender opened last June 3rd and closed with 1st of July then it is clear that it has been a year and it would be good if it were a year so that the projects are now on the move, however, it is nowhere near. So, contracts were signed, decisions were made in November of last year, contracts were signed in February of this year. All local action groups. But then it started to get more complicated, and it went to change the rules, and the procedures under which the allocations would be made. We are talking about procedures to be delegated by the paying agency to the local action groups. So local action groups, according to their strategies, are asking for public calls, all entities in their area are coming forward and making their own allocations. It's one form of how all these structures are taught, how they use funds and how to answer for funds. However, here we are now in a phase where the amendments to the regulations themselves came to take place, so she announces that there will be education going on, and those horizontal educations, all of this seems expensive, probably even this year won't be ready to implement the whole package. So you put only the position of a local action group of which were first founded ten years ago. I don't know, the LAGs of Zrinska Gora, Laura, Gorski Kotar, Srijem, Jana, for ten years already telling them, there will be, now, the funds are about to pass from those sapards where there were none, and then the IPARD in which some funds were received for the office's work and now the expectations that were eager to be fast turned into very slow. What do we do if we get the funds? Is there going to be pressure on these LAGs, give it all now in a few months, instead of opening up and maybe two public calls, to choose the best projects and to ensure the greatest benefit for those areas? And looking at the very procedure that I can say, rather than looking at the Slavonia Project, I now understand why the local action groups, from the Slavonia area, are not listed there. Because if the contract had been made, then it would probably have been said there. And I'm going to say again, so we have one project that's complex fictional, and it's not only fictitiously complex, it's also projects that should be found in such a model, and they're not realized either. And so from this position, here we are, in the name of the Bridge Club, asking that this story finally be concluded, that the funds are allocated to the local action groups and that the implementation takes place, that we finally have the government's position, the government that wants the European funds to be quickly and efficiently spent, and not that we have all the time of uncertainty and balance. Speaking of local action groups, this is an integral part of one rural development, where both agriculture and other rural development measures should mean a path towards the recovery of these areas, and by returning only to the measures taken quickly, then I can say here now that Minister Tolusic's announcement through the law that he will introduce membership fees for agricultural economies for Croatia's agricultural chamber. Therefore, while we have a Deputy Prime Minister who talks about cutting the parafiscal burdens, that it will decrease by 20, 30%, here today we have discussed on the Chamber of Commerce membership, then we see, on the other hand, that the increase is announced, therefore, in these conditions we cannot be quick or efficient, nor will we have almost implemented the funds allocated to the local action groups and areas in which they operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38701	Thank you, too. Third debate, distinguished counterpart Nenad Stazic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38702	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to conclude the assembly majority, the mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mr Bandic, announced yesterday that he would give in to Mrs Bruno Esih and Zlatko Hasanbegovic's request and propose to change the name of Marshal Tito's Square in Zagreb. It will be the final blow to the highest symbol of antifascism in Croatia. He won't be the first. A monument to Stjepan Filipovic, a young man hanged with his hands high and who had previously cried out to Tito, lived in freedom, was brought down in Obuzen. This photograph, Josip Filipovic, is located in the UN building in New York, as the strongest, most impressive symbol of antifascism. We took down his monument and never restored it. It is announced in Otočac that the monument of the panel Ustasha Juri Francetic, the government is silent. The memorial plate to the Hos in Jasenovac still stands with the Ustasha greeting. The square was also called Marshall Tito's Square, not Joseph Broz Tito's Square, not Tito's Square, Marshal Tito's Square, because when it was named, it was intended to highlight his role in World War II, his role as anti-fascist leader. And when he changes his name, he will not change the name of the communist Titus, the president of Yugoslavia Tito, but Marshal Tito, leader of the Partizan army. In World War II, Tito beat Pavelic, who gave Istria, islands, parts of Dalmatia, Međimurje to others. Tito beat him with his nearly 800,000 fighters. The people of Pavelic cannot forgive him. I can't, the defeat of these Pavelic followers today demands that the Market of Marshal Tito be abolished. When he died at the funeral he had 209 delegations from 127 countries, so did the tyrant come? The anti-fascists came, they came to bow down to the late Marshal. That's what everyone appreciates in the world except us. Where are all the streets and squares of the Titos? In Italy, the place... in Egypt, in Cairo street, in Ethiopia street in Tunisia, city... [[The speaker doesn't understand, he speaks foreign language.]] Avenue, Brazil San Paulo Avenue, Cyprus City... [[The speaker doesn't understand, he speaks foreign language.]] Street, in Dalia Street, in India, in New Daily Square, in... [[The speaker doesn't understand, he speaks foreign language.]] The street, in Russia in Moscow square, in Angola in... [[The speaker doesn't understand, he speaks foreign language.]] The street,.../The speaker doesn't understand, speaks foreign language. Avenue and one asteroid discovered in 1950, everyone in the world appreciates it. [[The speaker doesn't understand, he speaks foreign language.]] These streets were not named after a tyrant but by a hero, a hero who led both Croatia and the Croatian people to the side of the winner. If it hadn't been for Tito and it wasn't for his NOB, the war would have ended as it ended, but the Croatian people would have been on the side of the defeated. This is where the Kingdom of Yugoslavia would be restored because it... strongly advocated it with the Karadjordjevics. The question of whether Croatia would even have the right to be called Croatia or only be a region, Međimurje, Dalmatia, Slavonia. And the Croatian people question whether they should even be called Croatian people. From such fate of Croatia and Croats, Tito saved us, and now two of Pavelic's followers who are not even ashamed to acknowledge it are the mayors of Zagreb who agree to it. Look, you changed the name of the Fascism victims market, so we brought it back, and we're gonna bring this back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38703	Next debate, distinguished counterpart Silvano Hrelja Club of Independent Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38704	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In recent times we have two mantra health care systems, the first one needs to be increased so that the health care system works to increase revenues. This mantra is quite absurd because income needs to be increased, and the state has not paid its 2.5 billion legal obligations per year to the health system. Therefore, how can we say that income needs to be increased, and we have not arrived and we do not have what the state is obliged to pay for basic health insurance and, in part, for supplementary health insurance. The second mantra is that we can solve this with additional health insurance by increasing the additional policy, and I have warned the media that carry it, both ministers and representatives of the ministry, that every time it announces the purchase of additional health insurance policies, it pleases private insurance providers to offer a policy of lower value or lower price. And why do they do that? They make them healthy to get out of the system, and this system rests on the principle of solidarity. The HZZO Supplemental Health Insurance System has a million and 600 thousand insurance companies and can handle much more than one system that has possibly 100,000 insurance. He can bear even what the minister often says would have to raise the participation to three thousand as he once was. I'm throwing a glove at him, so let's raise him to three grand. The additional health insurance of HZZO can bear the cost, it can bear, because for the past year despite the non-payment of the state 250 million kuna business has been positive with excess revenue over expenditures for 70 million kuna. Therefore, additional health insurance can handle it, but the minister will not propose an increase in participation, why? Because, at the same price, private insurance companies no longer have profits, they cannot provide. So let's talk now, let's think about who's protecting who in this story and who started this story upside down. I only claim one thing is that that entrepreneur who has his own manufacturing company, no matter what has a manager, what has a whole system will come from time to time in the middle of the night to see if they release taps, whether the lights burn up, whether the energy breaks down, we in the health care system have no income control and we have no expense management. It's a huge system that doesn't have cost management. Until these two things are set up, there's no healing of the health system. We can talk about money any way we want, but the cures until these two things are consolidated, and there's no healing of the health system. Of course, there is one good idea throughout this debate, but it too rests on the principle of solidarity. Of course, the mandatory health insurance system will not be able to bear the cost of unconsciousness. It makes sense to think about a fund for particularly expensive medicines and a fund for insurance against rare diseases, but it must also function on the principle of solidarity. Unfortunately, even those who live on this system do not think that it is a system for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and are trying in some way to negotiate, Doctors' Associations with insurance companies to get special benefits for them for one collective insurance. They should be the first to advocate the public system of supplementary health insurance because they ensure the availability of healthcare for all citizens, especially the elderly, the sick and the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38705	Thank you, too. And the fifth debate, distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38706	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Who among us can't say that he has compassion for a child suffering from trauma? I can't go first. This case, unfortunately, we look at it from the human side, but we also have to look at it from the legislative side because this case has two sides. First we look on the human side, and on the human side, we have to say that this is a huge trauma that no child should experience. And I can understand every activist, every mother or every empathy person who went out on the street today because he's looking at it on the human side. But at the same time how to challenge the legislative side and the fact that we have the rightful verdicts of both the Italian and Croatian courts. And against the court's decision, whether we want to or not we just have to fight in court. It's hard to say and even harder to experience. The mother of the child should be used and needed and must take advantage of the legal opportunities available to her by Croatian and European legislation. Because we know as well as I said against institutional decisions, we're only looking at these institutions again. Also, the role of the social care centre cannot be above the powers laid down by law. And we need to be aware of that. When parents in a dispute can hardly agree as was the case here, then we see how far - reaching the consequences and unfortunately the child suffers the greatest consequences. And now we have a situation which, as I say traumatic and on the human side, goes to terrible proportions, but it's traumatic on the other hand because against the court decisions that have been made should now be retroactively fought. Since the mother is a Croatian citizen she must therefore take all the steps that are further available to her, of course within the jurisdiction. The harm for the child has already been done, and unfortunately, I am afraid that this little boy will need help mentally to survive all that he has now found neither guilty nor due, and unfortunately all this has gone too far for the child. So once again, indeed, but most sincerely we appeal and call on the maximum mother to take advantage of all the opportunities available to her for the protection of the child. And if there have been any failures either from the institutional side or even from the parenting process in such a way that not all evidence has been used in the evidence process that could have been used, then it is also known where this is proved especially when it comes to such a complex case. What is important is to say that the Croatian Parliament and the Club of HDZ Representatives will do everything they can in the context of their capabilities, or they will do nothing against the welfare of that little boy and that child who suffers a terrible trauma. And if the demands from the Italian Parliament come to the Croatian Parliament officially, of course he will be considered with appropriate seriousness as is the case for such a complex and traumatic case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u38707	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the debates related to the breaks. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. First point of today, here's just to read what we're starting with, and then we'll give it a break. - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No This appropriation is intended to cover: No. 95 Now, please, who's calling for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41651	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Today you have on your bench the final draft law implementing Regulation 609/2013. The European Parliament and the Council of 12 June 2013 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and replacement for a daily diet on a reduction diet. As the legislative proposal provides for the application of the Regulations, it shall primarily establish the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of those Regulations and its tasks, the way in which official controls are carried out by the sanitary inspection, the way in which the European Commission is treated and reported, and the obligations and responsibilities of operators in the food business which place food on the market for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and replacements for a full-day diet. In practice, the law refers to cca. 40 responsible food business operators who place such food on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Regulation 609/2013. In order to protect the health of infants, it lays down rules on the labelling, presentation and advertising and promotional and business practices relating to infant food, this law lays down the legal basis for the adoption of regulations that will bring these issues closer into line in order to achieve the objectives of the International Code of Health Organization for the Market of breast milk substitutes which it aims to contribute to ensuring safe and appropriate nutrition for infants with the assistance of the protection and promotion of breast-feeding. The funds for the implementation of this law are provided by the Ministry of Health at the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to point out in the end what are the main changes in relation to the existing legislative framework. Some categories of food that were considered special food under the existing legislative framework, such as gluten-free food, diabetic food, sport food and individual replacement meals intended for weight reduction, no longer fall within that category, are becoming common food and are subject to labelling rules. For certain categories of food, the notification procedure shall be abolished, in the food register for special nutritional needs such as in the infant food transition, except for hydrolysate-based food and processed cereal-based food for infants and young children and other children’s food, which essentially means administrative relief and partly equivalence of the whole process. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41652	Thank you. The exposure caused two replicas. The first is Honorable colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41653	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State Plazonic, in your presentation, you said that the adoption of this law actually determines the commission and its tasks, and among other things you said that it and the promotional must act, seeing this law, I saw that the commission gives opinions on the entry into the register, then opinions, scientific opinions on food, but also participates in drawing up opinions on national food policy proposals related to infants and specific groups. I'm glad you brought this up because the UNICEF programme is actually feeding babies or encouraging breast-feeding is one very important item. Breast-feeding in mothers, this should be emphasized in fact ensures a healthy growth and actually the best way to feed a baby who cannot replace any food, on the other hand infants through breastfeeding actually have that sense of safety and protection over their mother. It should also be pointed out that this role on breast-feeding of mother or mother's milk, which actually has the best ingredients where the baby is actually protected from infections, from eczema, from allergens, in fact, that this commission is extremely working on it, to promote actually breast-feeding infancy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41654	Thank you. Okay, then another replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41655	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, you'd have two observations. The first is related to Article 7 where the draft commission is referred to, and then paragraph 2 states who makes the commission and writes so “three representatives of experts in the field of medicine, nutrition and public health”. Since public health is an integral part of medicine, I think it's excessive, so I think it should be correct for me to write only three representatives of experts in the field of medicine and nutrition, because I don't think there's any need to cite public health as such since it's an integral part of medicine. The second observation refers to Article 14, so as to carry out official controls. I think it's extremely important for these controls to be carried out by the health department's sanitary inspection. It is often heard, therefore, that the Ministry of Agriculture could take over this sanitary inspection for food segments, but also taking into account the Law on Food for Special Medical Needs, which was adopted in 2013 which also speaks of child food, I think it is extremely important and I welcome this, that the implementation of official controls is carried out by the health care ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41656	Thank you. The reply to the replica State Secretary Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41657	As for your first replica, medicine and public health now depends on the concept that we accept and understand, medicine is certainly a broader concept than public health, but in any case, the task of medicine in the sense in which we presupposed it is not the same as the task of public health as it is, so we have explicitly brought and classified public health as one of the subjects in the formation of this commission. And as for the second replica, which was the relationship between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health on sanitary inspections, it's something that so far there's already been one legislative framework that we haven't changed in any way, and I don't know if we're going to change it at all in the future because the top issue of mutual agreements between the ministries and the government's decision as such, but I personally stand at the point of view that the Ministry of Health is the only one responsible for conducting the sanitary inspection in the area concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41658	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, then we move on to the debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41659	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected legislators, respected colleagues. There are few of us today, but despite the fact that this formal adoption of a directive that we need to transpose into our legislation by this law, something that is quite logical and what would actually be to accept, there are some points that need to be made. Therefore, this Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and replacement for a full-day diet on a reduction diet. Therefore, the Ministry of Health, as we have heard, has heard the competent authority for its implementation and prescribes provisions on the exercise of official controls and powers of the Sanitary Inspection, all with a view to protecting the health of infants, young children and people in relation to applicable legislation. And certain categories of food are arranged, so food without gluten, food for diabetics and individual replacement meals intended for weight reduction are no longer considered as food for special needs but become common food. The MOST Club of Independent Lists will support this proposal. In fact, this is compliance with a European single regulation, meaning 609/213 which requested that a product that is suitable for infants only older could be placed on the market only a product suitable for infants older than 6 months of age, that it should be made only part of a variety of diets, that it should not be used as a substitute for breast milk during the first 6 months and that a decision on the introduction of an additional diet including all exceptions up to the age of 6 months should be taken only on the basis of advice from independent medical, food, pharmaceutical and other experts responsible for the care of mothers and children on the basis of specific needs for the growth and development of individual infants. So they've left us with the possibility that through this law we're definitely saying that, we're the ones who are for breastfeeding as the best-quality way to feed a little child, the baby. But it was prescribed how food must be presented, prepared, which must be made for those children who are unable to breastfeed them. It is also particularly said in this directive that there should be promotion, because the promotion, they even, there was one big action in which Nestle’s products will be blocked and so that they must not inappropriately and aggressively advertise food for newborn children, for children, means for small infants, because it damages these children and actually removes the possibility and does not encourage breast-feeding as the best form of food for those children. And then exactly in that directive it was said that such advertising, so it must contain only scientific and factual information. They must not imply or create any belief that feeding on the vial is as valuable as breast-feeding or better than breast-feeding. No advertising is allowed in sales places, giving samples or other advertising material to encourage the sale of start-up food to infants directly to the consumer, retailing. We've been since '98. had a “Happy Baby” package that was shared at the maternity home and it is now prohibited because it was actually given an initial package with one food substitute, and instead of already in the maternity wards it encourages breastfeeding, etc. So, no special samples, discount coupons, special sales, etc. are allowed. This is very clear in this Directive. Manufacturers, food distributors for infants should not give a wider population, pregnant women, mothers or members of their families free products or products at low prices, etc. Therefore, Member States have made a commitment with this Directive to take all measures to ensure that families and persons involved in the diet of infants and young children receive objective and consistent information on the diet of infants and young children, and these measures include planning, providing, designing and dissemination of information and their supervision. Information and educational materials relating to the diet of infants, intended for pregnant women and mothers of infants and young children and must include clear information on the following points: the benefits and benefits of breast-feeding, the nutrition of mothers and the preparation for breast-feeding and maintenance of breast-feeding, possible negative effects on breast-feeding by the introduction of partial feeding on the vial, the difficulty in applying the decision not to breast-feed when it is necessary to use the initial food for infants. If such materials contain information on the use of start-up food for infants, they must indeed include the social and financial consequences of its use, health risks due to inadequate food and methods of feeding and special health hazards due to incorrect use of initial food for infants. So, we should have made it clear to this law and this law in some way, although I think it's only narrowed down to this part of the story, primarily we said that we should form a register, that there will be a commission that will act and put it in that register all that food and control will be carried out by the Sanitary Health Ministry inspection. So, you're defined by this law. A system of notifying certain categories of food for specific groups shall be established and implemented, the system of notification of information and educational materials, the rules of advertising shall be regulated, the promotion of expert associations and institutions for the production of guides and guidelines providing objective and consistent information on infant nutrition and the evaluation of guides providing objective and consistent information. Although I don't think this law is as prominent as we actually wanted and as much as this directive has allowed us. And now it's short for two special categories. So we definitely don't want to say with this law in any way that any food other than mother's milk is something to go with, and that's why I would send a message that it certainly wanted to avoid, which is the fact that there is no adequate substitute for breastfeeding. And it is our obligation to promote, support and prevent the promotion of substitute food for infants at any moment. Breast-feeding is the best and most economical way to feed a child, and the best way to prevent illness and promote health. In recent decades campaigns and international organisations as a joke in the World Health Organisation and UNICEF have focused on the use of natural nutrition to ensure the health of children and mothers. Scientists from around the world support and join these organisations' efforts by conducting extensive epidemiological and clinical studies that have shown the benefits of breast milk not only for the health of the child but also for the health of the mother, as well as for the welfare of the family and society as a whole. Therefore, the positive impact on natural diets is reflected primarily in the most favourable composition of nutrients for optimal child growth, but in a broader sense positive effects are reflected in the reduction of infant mortality and morbidity, the improvement of development processes, immunological, neurological, cognitive, social and emotional development, and child health, down to adult diseases. The facts and scientific evidence are very well known, as far as emotional development really means a very early contact of the mother with the child and breast-feeding as long as it is objectively possible. The nutritional value of mother's milk is not to be spoken of. And that's why we think there's a whole series of benefits, and one special invitation is actually to the birthplaces of which only 15 out of 32 of our maternity homes bear the name of the birthplace of friends of children, they're the ones who have one of the key roles, which should actually at birth encourage the mother to go along with it. Once again, I want to draw attention to another category that this law will, apart from diabetics, whose food is their medicine and primarily, one of the most of these patients can have one long period of control of their blood sugar and their diabetes, but a cell that is becoming a major problem today. Celijakia is no longer just a disease of small children, it is a disease and adults, it is very late recognized and therefore needs to be distracted, and people have a very expensive diet and it is actually an autoimmune incurable disease, which causes the intolerance of gluten and protein found in wheat, rye, barley and teeth. You must know that one bread today, for a cellist costs 35 kuna one kilo, which he must actually make or buy at that price or have the right to get flour, so today is a very expensive life for those who suffer from this disease. It used to be just a child's disease, today it's a diagnosis, which can be surprising and regardless of age and gender, is thought to be about 1% in Croatia and, respectively, every 85 people, one person suffers from cellularity. Classic symptoms are, at childhood, somewhat more pronounced than in adults, but they may be the most different, should be recognized in time, but after that it is not an incurable disease, and people are on a special diet for the rest of their lives. So this law, hopefully, will be implemented in the right way. We believe that the penalties for those who do not comply are too small for someone who actually throws one product into the market and after that, the way the food itself is made is much bigger than what it is said, but for all of us, we must be aware that by following this law and those who will actually implement it, they need to respond in a timely manner and all such means of occurrences, than advertising, especially by promoting this food as more correct compared to breastfeeding, I think that we should... react. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41660	We've got one replica, it's a distinguished colleague of the Cellics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41661	Here's my dear colleague, I'm glad you mentioned the question, therefore, of an active marketing promotion of this food. The European Food Safety Authority distinguishes food for small children, as one of the means of increasing omega 3 multiple fatty acids, iron and vitamin D in infants and young children and other means of producing enriched cow milk, enriched cereals and cereal-based foods, supplements or early introduction of meat and fish into additional nutrition and their permanent and regular consumption. Therefore, this European agency says that it cannot determine the specific role of food for young children, so it is not necessary to meet the nutritional needs of small children compared to other types of food that can be crucial in their usual diet. Thus, the European Agency stresses that these children's food is not so necessary, it is much more important to put on the nutrition declaration and since 20 July 2016 children's food on the EU market is equally classified as the usual food enriched with certain nutrients. So, food for young children, as a child's food, is thus registered in 17 EU countries and Norway. In Croatia it is covered and it is defined as infant food by the Food Act for specific nutritional needs that was brought before this Regulation 609/2013, for example, in the Kingdom of Denmark, food for young children is not registered as baby food and what needs to be stressed, it is referred to the general benefit of food for general health, it is allowed only if it is accompanied by special health companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41662	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41663	Well, I'm glad you've explained that a little bit now. But I would actually mention someone else I didn't mention, a special association of RODE, which is very active, except for those who are... In fact, they're in charge of breastfeeding, and they're maternity homes, they're slowly increasing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] RODE has been working very actively for 15 years to promote breastfeeding because they want to strengthen and educate pregnant women before birth, inform and educate healthcare professionals, provide mothers with concrete help and provide breast-feeding mechanisms. What is a fact, it is believed that 800,000 lives of annual children would be saved if the rate of breast-feeding was increased as the World Health Organization says, so the role of NGOs is very important, except... maternity, pediatrician and doctoral care to promote breastfeeding, as it is the best and best quality and provides children with healthy growth and development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41664	Thank you. The second debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41665	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. On the proposal for a Law implementing the EU regulation 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 213 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and replacement for a full-day diet on a reduction diet, we discussed in this House three months ago. Then we discussed breastfeeding and everything this regulation brings us. We know that this legislative proposal will ensure the implementation of Regulation 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and as I have previously cited for these food categories. The law also mentions about 40 food operators participating in the Croatian market. What we have also mentioned in the debate so far, which is very important to all of us, which is to protect the health of infants who will regulate certain rules with this law, and in particular the rules regarding advertising, promotion and food for infants. Why does it matter to us? It has been found that direct advertising and certain marketing techniques affect parents themselves, affecting the choice of certain food for infants, and this law is trying to protect the end consumer, and it is only a child. In this way, it also seeks to ensure a safe and appropriate diet for infants, but we will also not forget the breastfeeding we discussed in the previous debate. I am very happy and pleased that the topic of breastfeeding has elapsed in this House. How's dr. Strenja-Linić emphasized in Croatia there are certain public-health actions of a particular association that encourage breastfeeding, so there are hospitals that wear the plaque "Friend of children". I must stress that I am extremely happy to work in such a hospital where the maternity home carries the poster “Friends of Children”. We do not need to stress how important breastfeeding is, how important it is in the growth and development of the child. Also in this law where the ministry as a competent authority must carry out certain tasks, I am pleased that it will in some way take care of the advertising itself regarding children’s food. And professional societies are also encouraged, as well as institutions to provide adequate information on infant nutrition. So they are being arranged as I have said the rules, advertising and presentations themselves, all for the most important purpose, which is the public-health interest of those who consume the food covered by this Regulation. Finally, the main changes in the current law, as the State Secretary pointed out, that certain categories of food that are classified in the food category for special needs, will now become food for general use. As mentioned above is gluten-free food, diabetic food, athletes, individual replacement meals for reduction diets. And also certain categories will not pass the notification procedure in the Food Register, as well as certain categories, it is transitional food for infants except those based on hydrolysates, processed cereal-based foods for infants and small children. Of course, we keep wondering why certain rules are being changed or new ones are being adopted. You yourself were able to read in these materials what caught my eye and what my colleague Celić pointed out earlier, that in certain Member States there are differences, especially in the classification of a particular category of food in certain groups. This is how a specific food category is defined in one Member State for special purposes, and in the other, it is in general application. What is very important to me, and that is to take care of baby food, means both initial and transitional food for infants as one sophisticated product that must have a very clear composition and micro and macro nutrients, energy values to make this food as high as possible for our children. Finally, the HDZ Club supports the application of the final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of this Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41666	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so we're moving on to the third exposure. On behalf of the SDP representative club, distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41667	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will also support the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament, of the Council of 12 June on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and replacement for a full-day diet in a reduction diet. My colleagues before me have already said a lot, so there's no need to repeat everything they've said because I agree with all of it. What I want to stress in my debate is that all those legislative proposals and sublegal acts that should be based on this directive are important to be quality and to be adopted as soon as possible because the regime that will now apply to a part of food that is no longer food for special needs but a common diet should not mean that it is some lower degree of control, however. I think control should still be extremely rigorous since it's about food. Therefore, the part relating to the work of the Sanitary Inspection, to control, to the placing on the market of these preparations and to everything that the Directive states is important, which is education, information content and promotion must be highly quality regulated. I am particularly pleased to note in this Directive what is common when it comes to advertising to the public, and that it is necessary to be very careful whether there are professional guidelines and that the only thing that is allowed in these flyers is to highlight when it comes to terms safely, effectively and in line with the guidelines is that it is indeed so. So that there are all those control mechanisms, that the foods that will be on the market, especially when it comes to infant nutrition, where of course I support everything that is said here about breastfeeding, but it should be stressed that there is a great emphasis here on sportsmen's food and on various reduction diets that will be taken by people who want to reduce body mass. And we know that athletes and people who want to get rid of increased body weight are very susceptible to different marketing ads that will encourage them to buy these products. That is why I believe it should be very sharp and that punishment should be increased for all those who do not comply with what is legally regulated. At the very end, a dilemma about the commission that should be representatives of biomedicine and public health. In fact, there should not be a dilemma for the simple reason why in Croatia and in the world there is a lot to talk about biomedicine in public health. So there is a postgraduate study of biomedicine and public health. The National Council for Science has a commission in the field of biomedicine and public health. Therefore, it is not unnecessary to repeat, and I think that is the way to stay. So the SDP club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41668	Thank you. Now I would like to ask if there is any need for a final address from the secretary of state, dear colleague Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41669	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here I would first of all thank all the speakers and participants of this debate, express my great pleasure with your content of address regarding this law. I hope that it will be applied in practice in a very correct and quality and consistent manner. And finally, if I had so much time, I would just point out one thing, which is that any discussion about breastfeeding is not necessary because breastfeeding is the most natural, the most qualitative way to feed infants who are not only and exclusively for the purpose of eating, but has a deep, deeply more emotional quality of the relationship between mother and child, and that is why it is something that can never be replaced with anything. And on the other hand, I support this proposal by my colleague Jovanovic that public health must always be particularly stressed with us because it has recently been the anniversary of the death of the first founder of public health in our country, and this is Mr. Andrija Stampar, the first president of the World Health Organization. And that is why today our public health system is very high and needs to be further developed and respected. Thank you very much, and I hope for the positive outcome of your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41670	Thank you. The replica again, dear fellow Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41671	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is only a very short one, so the 2009 regulation does not cover food for athletes anymore, so food for special food needs is primarily referred to as vulnerable consumer groups. So then, in fact, EU legislation doesn't recognise sportsmen's food as some particular category, which is likely to be specific and all that is Professor. Jovanovic spoke, it will definitely need to be covered by certain legislation. But here's the clean information that works, the food for athletes is no longer covered by Regulation 609/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41672	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41673	I don't think it's... You need an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Food for athletes is actually food and it's just a question of what you think about food for athletes because every sport is looking for a practically normal diet as well as for every healthy man and... It is important for it to be dealt with in particular in some way, with any legislative regulations unless we are talking about promotions and an inadequate advertising of such products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every athlete has practically normal food and that's what we need to insist on as well as society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41674	I thank you, and I hereby conclude this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation No. This appropriation is intended to cover: Number 95, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 119 votes to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41677	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the bill of law, the new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The law was made after the full procedure that was carried out, prescribed, of course, by all acts in the Republic of Croatia, so there were also public debates and we implemented the law through the full government procedure and, of course, we now propose to the Croatian Assembly through two parliamentary readings. We expect, of course, a constructive debate and dialogue so that both from and from this first and then from the second reading we can actually produce some more, we believe additional comments and suggestions that could improve this new law to a greater extent. Given the fact that this is the first time we have talked about the theme of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and that one part of your parliamentary representatives is for the first time whether we are meeting, perhaps with this topic, I hope that they will not mind me, or let me say a few words briefly about the system itself as such and that we have as one good introduction to this new law itself. Therefore, the first Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering dates back to 1997 when a legal framework was set up to prevent money laundering and when one unit was established within the Ministry of Finance, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, later and financing terrorism as a founding agent of the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the experiences of many other European countries, otherwise the position of such an office, which in international circles and not only Colloquial but also essentially is called the Financial Intelligence Unit, is generally within the existing state administrations, such as the Ministry of Finance, most often, but may be in some other state administration bodies, in some rare situations as an independent body. However, the largest number of countries actually have such a structure as Croatia does. By applying the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism since 2009 since January 01, which was actually on the one hand and our obligation to align and harmonise with the European acquis. The system of preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism in the Republic of Croatia should again be said that it is not only in the authority of the mentioned office as one establishment unit but it is made up of a whole series of institutions, of course, the bodies of the state administration but of those who actually complete the entire system. On the one hand, we have prevention bodies, prevention bodies are banks, savings banks, credit unions, authorised exchangers, insurance companies, gambling directors, brokers, lawyers, public notebooks, tax advisors and other bonds. They are all in a certain way, and by this new law, you will hear later, bonds to apply measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. There are also supervisory authorities, supervisory authorities, those who monitor that bonds relating to the application of these measures I mentioned, are the CNBs which oversee banks, HANFA, which oversees insurance companies, company factoring, capital market, the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, another establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration, already mention the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and, of course, law enforcement, police and the State Attorney's Office above all. Therefore, the cases forwarded by the Office to further proceedings are subject to further proceedings by the competent authorities in the context of financial investigations, criminal proceedings, the initiation of criminal proceedings in order to establish an illegal source of funds. So the office is only an intermediary on the one hand between the taxpayers and the financial and non-financial sectors that report suspicious transactions and, of course, law enforcement authorities on the other. It is important to stress that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is authorised to launch an operational analysis of suspected transactions in the following cases. Where banks or other bonds in respect of a particular transaction or persons deliver to the office reasonable reasons for doubting money laundering or terrorist financing, they are so called. the suspicious transaction regime. Where foreign financial and intelligence units, therefore foreign offices, deliver to the Croatian office a written application or notification of suspected transactions or suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing, and of course when the state authorities deliver a proposal stating the activities that are or could be related to money laundering or terrorist financing and which activities are identified in the performance of the business of the part-time work of those bodies. The key element of the preventive system and the obligations of banks and other laws of certain obligors shall be to notify the office of suspicious transactions regardless of the level of transactions. If we look at a brief review of the recent five years, there has been a trend in the growth of suspicious transactions. When I say suspicious transactions, it doesn't necessarily mean that they will, of course, be characterized as such. Finally, however, this number has been visible since 2012, when, for example, 397, the number has been growing to 577, 698, 2016, at the conclusion of 855 transactions. In its proceedings, the Office is authorised to apply specific measures and to issue an order to banks and other bonds to suspend the execution of suspicious transactions. If further verification of the data from the suspicious transaction notice is required, the office may order the bank and the other obligor to postpone carrying out a suspicious transaction for a maximum of 72 hours. In the period 2009 to 2016, the office issued orders to banks and other bonds for the temporary blockade of suspected transactions at 72 hours totalling 239 million kuna. However, it should also be said that, in its work, since it provides banking, personal and intelligence data from the country and abroad, data in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of data are to be classified as classified for which an appropriate degree of secrecy is established. In view of this character of secrecy, the procedures conducted by the office are based on the law as such secrets. It should also be said of course that the office through the Ministry of Finance submits a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on work once a year. What would be mentioned at the end before the bill itself, that also a very important international component and the role of the office itself as a financial and intelligence unit, and perhaps to sum up in some way all this cooperation and relations with other offices, was globally, the best characterises the actual assessment of MONEYVAL, and this is the Council of Europe's Committee for the Assessment of Anti-money Laundering Measures and the financing of terrorism, which has always been positively assessed in all its reports since the fact that not only has the harmonised system of money laundering and terrorist financing, but also after preventing money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing is fully functional and operational in its work, as well as in many cases that have actually proved and demonstrated such assessments. As regards this law today, so the topic we are discussing today, and these are the basic reasons for the adoption of a new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, so on the one hand, of course, it is the harmonisation with the acquis of the EU, in particular with the fourth directive. However, in the bill, there is, of course, additionally embedded and so on, we can say good practice for all stakeholders in the system of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as for the results of the national risk assessment carried out. So we're talking about Direct 4. The EU for the protection of the financial system against money laundering and terrorist financing, and two regulations concerning the safe transfer of funds, and the transfer of cash across the state border. In addition to harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with international standards, this law is also an upgrade of the existing system, as new standards are introduced in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in particular, and of course all in order to protect the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. This law is a preventive character and it prescribes, among other things, measures taken by individual bonds already mentioned by banks and others to prevent the detection of money laundering and financing of terrorism, the handling and authorisation of offices, and the international exchange of data with foreign financial and intelligence units, i.e. interinstitutional cooperation throughout the system. Stronger supervision of the bonds of application of measures is also required to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. As far as specific provisions are concerned, we can thus call them the most important issues that are governed by the bill, that is, the establishment above all so - called. the register of real owners. The draft law in the concrete draft law is Articles 32 to 36, so this would be the central electronic database containing data on natural persons of legal persons. The register of real owners shall be established to increase the transparency of real-estate data and to reduce the possibility of abuse of legal entities to conceal the identity of real owners as potential perpetrators of criminal offences, money laundering, including tax evasion and fraud, and to finance terrorism. Enabling accurate information on the real ownership of legal entities established in the Republic of Croatia. The law provides that data from the Register of Real Owners are available to the following authorising officers in the scope and manner prescribed by this law. Therefore, authorised officials of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, authorised persons of the competent state bodies under the law. I repeat once again, so the supervision services of the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Inspectorate, the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration, then the DORH, USCOK, PNUSKK, SOA, HANFA, HNB and so on. Banks and other bonds, as well as legal and natural persons proving legitimate legal interest. This is an article of the 35th of this proposal. I have to say very clearly and openly here, therefore, that this subject in terms of the public Register of Real Owners and we, in the context of our internal debate at the level of the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, held a debate. We also looked at and followed international experiences, and of course, taking into account the directives. So, the fact is that there are several countries that have done some of the data from the Register of Real Owners already at this stage publicly, the vast majority of countries are not. However, at EU level, there is also a debate on possible, hence possible changes, changes to the existing directive that would potentially make the public of this register more accessible. However, I repeat once again, given that the existing directive provides for access to so-called. third parties on the basis of legitimate legal interest. We, in line with this postulate and that provision of the directive, have actually defined this article 35, or the whole problem of the register of real owners. We have received opinions from individual institutions and bodies of the state administration which are also on the trail of the protection of the confidentiality of data, in fact, also agreeing with this proposal. As far as the register of real owners in public is concerned, when only the Government presented this, certain questions about the similarity, i.e. the diversity of the Registers of Real Owners were raised in relation to the so-called so-called ‘Registration’. Not so-called. For a long time, an operational court register. So the key difference would be in the next one. Therefore, the lists of legal entities that are obliged to enter data in real ownership are broader than the concept of companies. So here we are also talking about associations, foundations, foundations, institutions where the Republic of Croatia or local and regional self-government units are not the only founders and trusts and equalised entities of foreign law if they are the same, of course, OIB bonds. And the concept of real ownership is also broader than the concept of legal property, i.e. the real owner may be either the founder of a company, that is, the one entered in the court register or another person who actually controls a legal entity and is not registered in the court register. The Register for the Ministry of Finance, or the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, will be operationally managed by the Financial Agency under this draft law. Otherwise, the establishment of a register of real owners also includes certain costs for the state budget planned in the 2017 budget of EUR 3.7 million. However, it should also be noted that the costs of establishing a register of real owners are planned for EU funding projects. It is also important to note that no new costs are expected for legal entities since communication with them in terms of real ownership data will be managed through existing tools and instruments, so already established channels and communication mechanisms between legal entities and financial agencies. As far as the full interoperability of this register is concerned, so after this law is passed, we are in the debate today of the first reading. We expect, of course, a second reading after the summer break, if not before of course. But it should also be said that within six months of the adoption of this law, the Ministry of Finance, or the Minister of Finance, will, as prescribed by the regulation, prescribe the content and structure of the data in the register, and I expect its full interoperability as of 1 July 2018, this year. The second point that is also important for the highlighted in this introductory section is the category of politically exposed persons. This is in the draft bill Articles 46 to 48. Therefore, the applicable law, and in accordance with the directive, the concept of politically exposed persons have so far been covered only by foreign natural persons in a prominent public position including members of their families and close associates. According to this proposal, therefore, the new law also covers domestic, therefore we, including members of our and their families, and close associates and, in accordance with Article 3(3) of the new Directive, which lists categories of politically exposed persons acting or operating in a prominent public position over the past 12 months. What does that essentially mean? Therefore, banks and other bonds are obliged to take the following measures when establishing a business relationship or carrying out transactions with a politically exposed person. To obtain written consent from the senior management of the obligor, to establish or continue a business relationship with a party that is politically exposed, to implement appropriate measures to identify the source of assets and the source of cash involved in a business relationship or transaction, and to monitor the business relationship with a politically exposed person in a strengthened and permanent manner. At the first two points, not one more newspaper, but with the foundation and the directive, but the existing experience, something that we are changing and proposing by this new law, is the collection of data on the source of funds for cash transactions worth 200 thousand kuna and greater. It is prescribed that when cash payments are made, the bank shall request information from clients on the source of the funds for each payment of cash worth 200 thousand kuna and greater. This need and obligation does not have to be for payments, since by that very payment we are registering the origin of the funds. The regulation of measures will reduce the possibility of misusing the Republic of Croatia's financial system to cover up illegal sources of cash resources and increase the potential for unsolicited revenues to be detected. For example. what we have seen in recent years, therefore, experience that we have ourselves, natural persons repeatedly pay cash loans from an unknown source in favour of the account of legal persons. Then the cap in cash business. So this law lowers the limit of cash business from 105 thousand kuna to 75. Consequently, a legal or natural person, who carries out a registered activity in the Republic of Croatia, must not receive payment, or make cash payments worth 75 thousand kuna or more, thus also reducing the risk of high-price payments being used for money laundering or terrorist financing. It should also be said here, of course, that these provisions of the law do not clearly prohibit business and cash operations as such, however, restrict the way in which they reroute high or risk cash transactions towards banks and other credit and financial institutions. And I repeat once again, only in cases where transactions of legal and physical persons are conducted by registered activities. So we don't talk about cases where there's a transaction between two individuals. And in the end, I will only say that, of course, we have, in accordance with the directives and other elements, any of our experiences, any comments in the context of the public debate and our procedures, in fact, brought into line the breaking provisions. In view of cases like this, it is very difficult sometimes to determine the full material benefit or damage that someone has done to this area. However, prescribed by these infringements, the possibility of even being double the estimated damage that has been done. Also, of course, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Infringement Act, which is in the Croatian Parliament, with the final proposal to implement it in accordance with the end. Finally, a few of these technical data on the procedure itself. The Ministry of Finance held a consultation with the interested public and published a report on the consultation carried out. During the consultation, a total of 128 comments and proposals were received on the drafts... The law, of which 54 were accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In part, 11 proposals were accepted, 35 were rejected for reasons that were not in line with international standards, and 28 comments and comments were actually taken note, given that there were comments rather than some concrete proposals. The draft law was submitted to all authorities of the state administration, therefore, to the ministries and to the government at the level of the debate. However, so did the one I mentioned earlier as supervisory bodies and part of the body of course law enforcement. Of course, the Committee on Law, Justice, Finance and the State Budget has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41678	I thank the Minister of Finance. We have five replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41679	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, so I think that in your opening part you should have mentioned something that has been going on in the debate in Croatia for years, and that is the need for one great independence and independence of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. So in recent years, there has been a colleague named Lalovac, who has been in one period of the finance minister, many have tried to put that office under their laps and use it for some things the office doesn't work for. Second thing, the office has been getting compliments all these years from... The second thing, the office never publicly boasts about its affairs, but many things in Croatia from institutions dealing with supervision, persecution, etc. They were probably made on the basis prepared by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'd like to say, and there's going to be time during the debate, and that's this amount of 200 thousand kuna, where banks have to believe. I think, no matter what, to some tradition, of some sort of thing in order for that amount of bank verification to have to go down to 100 thousand kuna. And the payment in Croatia is 75 thousand kuna, I think simply in the times in which we live, 75 thousand kuna cash payment is unnecessary and too high for me, if this happens in some special and specific cases, then it can be arranged for certain rules, because I don't think there's really any need for the amount of 75 thousand kuna to be something to pay in cash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41680	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41681	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, yes, I tried a little bit in the introduction not to go into all the possible details, since there will be a lot of debate, but the fact is, here I took out, among other statistics from the Egmont Group, the Association of Financial Intelligence Units, which says, of the 151 countries in the world, members of the Egmont Group, in 107 countries of the world are financial intelligence units, administrative type, as well as the Croatian office. So 71% of the total number of financial intelligence units and are also formed outside individual structures, say the police, or the judiciary, the largest number of cases as I have mentioned in the introduction is actually the position of such an office within the finance ministry in some countries, even in terms of the position of central national banks, or that they are set up as special agencies. However, we believe that this existing structure is adequate since the very beginning of the office and the first Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering has been adequate, because these results are also the most relevant in the assessment of Moneyvals, as well as other assessments of Croatia as regards the foundation and work of offices and all bodies in the system of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as international cooperation through these results have shown that the system is adequately designed. As regards these concrete comments on the level of payments in terms of cash transactions between natural or legal persons performing a registered activity or cash payment in banks, we have carefully considered these thresholds with the basis of both some experiences and other countries, and in particular taking into account some of our elements. But here we will also consider in the first reading of the comments you made and consider once again the height of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41682	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41683	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. You said that the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe Moneyval actually carried out four evaluations in several years in the Republic of Croatia and by... actually an international efficiency assessment. You may also not have said, but it says in this bill that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has been operationally analysed from 2009 to the end of 2015 by 35300 transactions related to 5500 natural persons and 2638 legal persons respectively. But it is known that only by making a final judgment for the crime of money laundering is the illegality of the funds and are they permanently taken away. Are you familiar with the fact that there were, for example, judicial verdicts for the 2016 crime of money laundering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41684	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41685	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I also repeat a little statistics, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering once a year through the Ministry of Finance of the Government presents its results and despite the element of the secrecy of certain specific objects that I mentioned in the introduction, we can also say on this also call them media-exposed cases you can be sure that the office has always been an integral part of the entire structure of all bodies of the state administration, either these preventive supervisory bodies, any law enforcement bodies, and it is certain that it has always contributed and contributed from the very element of detection to the other element itself may cooperate itself with other bodies. As far as 2016 is concerned, according to data provided by the Office of the National Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, USKOK and the competent courts, therefore investigations against 49 persons have been initiated for the crime of money laundering, indictees have been brought against 35 persons and judgments have been brought against 11 persons. Here's the statistic where it's still mentioned that the office issued 31 warrants for blocking suspicious transactions worth 46 million kuna. So again, the office's position is certainly an integral part of the entire structure, but also when it submits all its findings and documents to the law enforcement authorities, then it is up to them to continue to process and it is no longer in the office's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41686	Thank you. Third replica, representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41687	Dear Minister. When it comes to money laundering, it is time to finally respond to the Croatian public why you went through tax reform to reduce the rate of taxation to a disproportionate amount of property, which we have stopped here with our reaction in the Croatian Parliament and why you did not want to, although we have warned you, reduced the number of years to explore disproportionate property over the last six years, which is why you have avoided this whole troubled period from 2005 to 2010, and we know who then ruled and managed Croatia and who was shaking Croatia. It is time that you finally, you did not do so during the parliamentary debate on your trust, neither you nor the Prime Minister, it is time to answer that question. Enough of the non-transparentity that is happening now and around Agrokor, and so I am urgently asking here for the President of the Parliament to put an end to the Agrokor Investigation Commission, so enough of this non-transparent behaviour and attempt to protect those who have brought Croatia into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41688	Just a second. Since I am mentioned, the item on the Agrokor Investigation Commission will be held by the end of the session as provided and as requested by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41689	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, and also in the context of the debate on tax reform, and also in the context of the debate on confidence in me personally as Minister of Finance, I think we have answered these questions even though you think we are not, but we were apostrophe. So the key element of tax reform was simplification, greater stability of predictability and consistency of the Croatian tax rules because frequent and frequent changes in tax regulations led to the lack of this element of security which in many ways deters investors from investing in Croatia and existing investors from their activity. We started a whole series of amendments, you remember these 15 legal regulations yourself, and there was a strong working group of tax experts and people who operate and live with the tax system every day. Among other things, one of the solutions and the proposals put forward there is that, in that part, with zero tolerance according to any form of tax evasiveness, the procedures leading to the determination of certain disproportionate or penalization after it has been implemented and established. So these six years that you're talking about what we're doing in the framework I repeat once more to the task force countless times, if we have a tax or legal system that's also an administration that's not gonna solve the case in six years, then we have a whole other problem. But on the other hand, you know very well, and I also answered that in this debate for certain forms, and we know the good that amongst other things and tax frauds is obsolete as such there is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41690	Thank you. The fourth is the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41691	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, MPs and MPs. I wonder how the issue of money laundering in Croatia can be solved in the first place when we have the institute so-called ". custody accounts. Namely, these are secret accounts that are unknown to the right owner and according to statistics that we have available, as much as 25% of the shares in Croatia are owned by trust accounts or about 76 billion kunas. Do you plan to cancel those custody accounts, within what time? This is a question that is of great interest to the Croatian public and especially to small shareholders. I'm also wondering if you have a custody account. And I'm also interested in which is 280 multimillionaires that Croatia has, so if it is already registering some real account owners, can we find out the names of those 280 so that the Croatian public can finally gain some insight into therefore the criminal flows of money that are obvious? Not because I say so, but because according to the last poll you read about 7 days ago, we are the most corrupt state of Southeast Europe and even 80% of the managers working in Croatia believe that corruption in Croatia is very high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41692	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41693	So let's ask this short question about the part about me personally, I don't have any custody account or any such form. Within those 17 hours of debate about my trust I think you are all expensive and the entire Croatian public if not already studied my property card in detail then actually came really into the most detailed and certain elements of my property card so that you are all very well aware of what I have and what I do not have, as such. As far as the topics are concerned, otherwise the custody accounts and the elements that you mentioned, well, it is a good part of both the intention and the idea to solve it through this register of real owners because there will be also an obligation as I have initially mentioned the delivery of the data not only about the ownership as it is listed in the court register, among other things, where they write and such elements of the custody accounts, but of course there will be data on this real property. Of course, I repeat once again, the register as this bill provides will be available to the bodies that I have listed, so the supervisory authorities, the office as such and all those involved in these processes, to determine whether there are elements of money laundering or to prevent money laundering. As far as the office itself is concerned, the office has insight into the register of these custody accounts and, of course, according to that and all other analysts it has and is available to implement the measures and determine whether there are elements so-called. suspicious transactions I was also talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41694	Thank you. And the 5th replica, dear colleague Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41695	Dear colleagues, we heard some new information today. America has 300 million inhabitants more, 16 intelligence agencies and, of course, there are gaps sometimes. And we're the country of most suburbs of London and we haven't created one system yet, we don't see it systematically yet, we've heard a lot of information. I think in Croatia you have a better chance of getting yourself killed, getting hit by a Ledo ice cream truck than getting yourself killed in a terrorist attack. As far as money laundering is concerned, we have open source information, e.g. 300 accounts in Liechtenstein, 14 families holding 1.7 billion kuna, we have a grey economy that is up to 30%. I wonder what the D.A.'s doing. What's the state's attorney's office doing on these issues? It is a greater threat to us than a terrorist attack because this implosion mentioned by a colleague of Bunjac here that this is the first problem Croatia is implosion of corruption, an inefficient apparatus of state. And what do we have today? We've got a kind of croissant. As far as terrorism is concerned, I haven't seen a single report on the cooperation between SOA, OSA. You have an example. The Albanian mafia, which Mr. Orepic may know, is where a group on the Adriatic comes, not only Albanian but the Russian mafia, and in Albania there are 200 thousand weapons of long pipes missing after that coup. This is another blast area. What are we worried about? Who monitors traffic at the Sarajevo airport, etc., etc.? In the end and in terms of terrorism, we have a group in Croatia that conducts intellectual terror over the Croatian people, the economic caste, the former disguised people from the Central Committee and the most criminal organisation in this part of Europe, and this is the Communist party of Yugoslavia. You are walking around Zagreb assassins of UDBA who received $50,000 per assassination, buy there on the Adriatic Realestate, etc.. And where was the money transferred to bank accounts outside, until the 90th of those secret services of the former state?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41696	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41697	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, therefore, the subject of the accounts of our citizens and citizens in other countries, and again I repeat not necessarily but possibly some illegal work related to it is not just about our bodies. Of course, it is and again this international element, so the bodies in these countries should, of course, act as such. And we can also show that these reports of different international associations, in particular, by MANIVAL, show that the Croatian office as a financial intelligence unit is very well not only networked but also connected in terms of the number of requests from international offices to Croatia for data delivery but also in the opposite direction. So we are always talking about a two-way relationship because the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering also has the authority and the possibility to direct all international offices here I can say the data. During the period from 2009 to 2016, the number of requests received by the Croatian office from international, or foreign financial and intelligence units was 1992 requests, so at the same time we are talking about 827 requests from our Croatian office to offices in can say 114 countries around the world. Also, what I would like to mention is, a little bit about your exposure, but to the previous presentation of the esteemed representative of Bunjc, of course, we also often read certain statistics that place Croatia in some bad places, mainly in this segment of the perception of corruption. But I'm going to give you one piece of information that's also not diminishing what you said, but still as one strong argument exactly on the subject of system organisation and the structure of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing. According to the International Centre for Returns of Basel in August 2015 of 152 countries, Croatia is in the 100th place, but this time I would say, in a good 100th place because it is characterized as a country that is not a fertile soil for money laundering and terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41698	Thank you. Okay, now we're going to the board's reports. Do any of the board presidents want to take a word for it? If not, then I open the debate, the first club is the club of representatives of independent lists and distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41699	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am giving up the prepared debate offered by what has been said in the presentation and replicas so far. And I decided to split this exhibit into two parts today. First, I want to say something about the problem of money laundering and terrorist financing, and the second is to talk about the problem of terrorism. In the first part, I can only commend this Office for preventing money laundering and financing terrorism and commendation regarding the model that has been taken over, which is that the agency that will deal with this problem, act as intelligence finance agencies and within the Ministry of Finance. It is as we have seen from the example of Edmond Group, a good model to deal with the problem of money mating operationally and preventively, and therefore the financing of terrorism. We've seen from the relevant reports that this was done effectively in the Republic of Croatia, even according to those measurable data. How long do we take this period from 2009 to 2015, from the beginning of 2009 to the end of 2015, and we face figures that over 35,000 transactions have been processed, over 5 and a half thousand natural persons, 2 and a half thousand legal persons, and that almost 150 measures have been imposed to block the account, or to block the execution of the financial transaction. It's about data that certainly cause you if you don't savage then at least one serious relationship that although we feel ourselves as a country that is almost marginalized in many processes, it doesn't need to be marginalized in the anti-terrorism process and in the processes of preventing all those activities that can lead to terrorism getting arousal. When we look at terrorism itself, then terrorism is always about a particular policy, and therefore these two circumstances need to be seen separately, so as politics and as terrorism to then view terrorism with it... political discourse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The difference between politics and terrorism is that politics as observed by almost the most famous theorist Hannah Arendt, it rests on the idea of people plural. If there's plurality of people, then we're invited to co-existence. We need to sort out our common space of residence somehow. On the contrary, terrorism rests on exclusivity. Some people have the exclusive right to be rich, some people have the exclusive right to talk about that harsh terrorism, they have the right to live, others don't have those rights because they're declared inhumans. Another theorist, Baudrillard, for example, in the “Ghost of Terrorism”, he speaks of us facing 4 world wars. The three world wars are behind us, and we are now in World War IV. World War I was a war that stopped the growth of colonial Europe. World War II is a war in which Nazism was stopped. The Third World War is a cold war where Communism has stopped growing and after all these three wars, it has sought to create a unique or common global world in which we live today. The Fourth World War is a fractal war, it's a war marked by terrorism, a war in which the idea of establishing a common space is rebelled, the idea of destroying all those who try to live differently from the set goal. The space in which we are and the policies we have taken is on the side of the organization of this life. So we are in strength and on the side of the world that has decided to globalize human, not that has decided to destroy humanity and that has decided to create any human being. It is clear to me that when we discuss such things, that the situation in which we find ourselves, which is the situation of a democratic deficit and a public feeling of corruption, that global problems seem far away to us. However, it would be good to change our optics and based on these measurable results and data that I have already said and which the minister had just said and which is in the text of the bill that we are discussing today they are opening up hope that we are living in a global space where this democratic deficit and the sense of public corruption will once disappear, stop and change. It will be changed by such and similar laws in which we do not only transpose directives in this case 2015/849 but also transfer and install something new into our policy. And when I talk about politics, then I look at politics not in a way almost untrue, which is that man is viewed as a political being, as if politics were natural to him. That was already mentioned by the theorist and rejected Hannah Arendt because she said that man's nature by policy, politics by nature doesn't belong. For what? Because politics isn't what's inside me. Politics is what's being built between me and someone else, politics is always pluralism and politics is the arrangement of common space. So the world of this fourth world war is a world that has been marked for some time by what is called a strike of events in literature. If we suspect that such a strike of world events do not have one thought experiment, and it is about terrorism and what we are trying to prevent as new, new mothers of these new events. World events were also in the 20th century since world wars, from football championships to the death of members of royal families. But that actual symbolic event wasn't until 9/11. And if you think about it now and think about what is a fundamental event in a terrorist sense, in terms of strengthening terrorism almost everyone will see that September 11th. This law is a law that, based on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, puts a small Croatia on the side of those countries who have realised that terrorism is a global problem and that global problems can only be solved globally, and that this global level is chained and with this preventive legislation that we are now trying to harmonize the sense of justice, the obviously increasing danger of these money laundering activities and ultimately financing terrorism. So terrorism isn't something that goes on beyond us. Historical events are taking place, but we are trying to prevent such laws from the mother of a new symbolic event from the new September 11th possessing our space and not starting some new fifth world war. That is why the club of the Independent Lists will support this bill. We keep this bill good, we keep good and what is in it problemed by registers of real owners to politically exposed persons until we try and even our legislation and EU legislation, that we try to settle next to the world that sees politics as spreading the space of life, not as production of death. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41700	It's two replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41701	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully support this part of your debate, but one part I would like to simply update, and that is when terrorism became a global threat and when in the intelligence of this office not only was Croatian but all came to be monitored by money flows. Since then, many taboo topics with regard to finance have fallen and collapsed from banking secrets in Switzerland to checking accounts for some exotic countries. It was just until the world decided it was so unimaginable. However, when the world felt threatened by it, there was simply a taboo of topics that seven, eight, or more years ago were simply not to be talked about, and it was seen that from these areas it was precisely the great source of funding for those who work and who lead terrorism. So that's when certain topics opened. And that's why I'm saying this office is extremely important. This office does not function through the media and thanks to the dear God, so it has not worked all these years, and every year it receives from international institutions praise for its work. Because the exchange of that data between these offices is today the only thing that can prevent the flow of that money that goes there to those who shouldn't go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41702	The answer of colleague Vučetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41703	You're right. You're right. So terrorism has become a global problem and terrorism is not naive in this global problem. He has his own insightal dimension, and that knowledgeable dimension is that he is doing well within the world that he wants to destroy. This is why money laundering is done in countries that originally do not belong to the so-called terrorist world if we call it that for the purposes of this debate. What we need to remember is that we keep dealing with two different concepts, two different existential visions. The first vision is a world that wants to live and does everything to extend that life. That we have a healthy economy, that we have healthy health care, that we have healthy builds, that we have a healthy scientific system. We want to make everything healthy. For what? Because in one part, we decided to live in a phase of civilization. Terrorism and terrorists have decided to die. Why don't terrorists appreciate their own life? So because death serves them as an instrument or a tool to destroy the other. We have simply different visions, but this is that terrorism has become a global problem, I think we are all aware that terrorism has become an economic, political, health, philosophical, sociological, political problem, and with all these levels we need to approach the problem of terrorism, and therefore we support this law, which aims to prevent terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41704	Second replica, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41705	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetic, therefore, I agree with you in both parts of the exhibition when you spoke about money laundering and terrorism. Not because we're members of the same club, but because your exposure was good. However, I want to point out one thing that is very important. I agree with the ministry doing a good job. This is a good law, a very extensive law, and I believe it will help suppress these two harmful phenomena both from money laundering and from the emergence of terrorism. However, what is very important is highlighted, and on this example we can see very well how important education reform is. Education reform must continue, because in order to face these problems nowadays, it is important to have the education of people, people who can recognize them. And we see that the main observation of the Chamber of Commerce that applied to this law was that certain craftsmen would have to make, analyse the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. Look, they don't have the capacity for it, and I don't know if there's any knowledge for it. I see the answers to the public debate by the ministry went in this direction, in a way they were bureaucratic, because the EU is being introduced. The education system in the future needs to be created so that all those actors they are, all those entrepreneurs who can recognize these phenomena in the future, and that in this way the whole society can face it. This way, if only the ministry, if the government says we've done our job and we're going down to lower levels, and people down there don't have enough knowledge and enough capacity, we're not going to make it. Today there are so many subtle money laundering mechanisms and so many subtle mechanisms of terrorist financing that it's actually already bordering with some kind of, let's say not with reason but with simple recognition of these phenomena.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41706	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41707	The education system is always at the heart of everyone's interests, so I assume it's at the heart of both terrorists and terrorism. The state is keenly interested in what kind of citizens they will have tomorrow, so all their forces should also be directed toward a healthy education system. This healthy educational system, in the form of this law we are currently discussing, would be to train students, children, craftsmen, experts, scientists and future academic citizens to be able to operate operationally and to be able to make analytical decisions and act as in the bill and to interact between national and international. If I were to point out the problem of education now and try to contextualise in accordance with the provisions of this law that we are now discussing, then, through education, we should intercede to people or to those we educate to have at least two powers in the world. One is a force that will celebrate the event of creation, and the other is a force that will celebrate the event of disappearance. When it comes to politics, the event of the disappearance is the construction of a righteous society, and the event of the disappearance is corruption. When it comes to this global problem, the event is the creation of a better world that everyone will feel to be a citizen precisely in the country where and when the country is changed, a citizen feels in that measured country, and the event of disappearance is when he wants to destroy everything that others have built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41708	Thank you. The next debate is SDP MPs' club, a respected counterpart, Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers with Associates, today we have before us a bill on the prevention and laundering of money and terrorist financing, I will immediately say that the SDP Club will support this law, not only because this law of Croatia is harmonized with the European acquis in this area, but because it has become a global threat today and we see that many more developed countries, the West, have a hard fight with this threat, have all the insight into all the accounts, all intelligence units are networked, etc. However, we have the feeling that always those who want to terrorise the citizens and do certain damages, that they are always a step ahead, so it is important to see, not only by legislation, to improve and give the authorities of the state administration that in this struggle, which I have, they cannot stop. There are always new challenges, but because it is important for the Republic of Croatia, especially if we know that we are a tourist country and that in such a segment, any kind of outbursts are certainly a threat to a particular national economy, and ultimately to the functioning of the state. It has already been said here that the third Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, which on the one hand is good that there are no too many amendments to the legislation. One was '97, and then it seems to me in 2012, now in 2017 it is good that we have one stable legislative regulation and that what we need is for these laws to be only upgraded and upgraded, and this seems to be now this law, where we are not only in line with the EU directive, but we need to know that we are now on the single European market and that we are now much more exposed than when we were no part of the EU, because we now have money flows, and we see that both in part and in this law are much easier to move from country to country. We see here when it is stated, and I will come later, in Article 121, so I would immediately ask that remark to be respected, here is the 100 thousand euro. Since it is a law, it would be good, and we had practice before everything is nominated in kunas when we talk about kunas, and here it is said that you can carry money freely, only if you cross EU borders, means that it refers to the EU's external borders, which means that you can now free money into the single European markets, and this applies more to us neighbouring countries. So all those problems that may have been easier for us at one time will now be more complicated because now it is a single European market than some 500 million people, and it will certainly not be easy to track all the citizens who are moving, especially because we know that we are an attractive country, as far as tourism is concerned, and you have many foreigners on the single European market who may have participated in some of these money laundering processes and they simply come and would like to buy real estate at sea. And that's where we now have one problem which in such a way they can get to legalization means simply that kind of money puts it into the system, means buying real estate. It is a special segment that I think needs to be monitored specifically if on the single European market you can't track everyone, and today simply with some amounts you can simply come to our coast and buy real estate. And the question arises how deep it goes later, and here we were saying that there will be no money flows between a natural and a physical person, that only there are limits of 75 thousand kunas when someone has registered activity and I agree, it is reduced from 105 to 75 thousand kuna and here around these 200 thousand to look for a certain origin of money. However, the question arises when you get a natural person who has a passport from any of the EU member states to bring in a certain amount of cash in euro and come and buy on the Adriatic from another natural person a certain property, in which way all institutions from the ministries to the police will simply be able to control all these transactions in such a way. I think there are some more technical problems about how to get down to all these individual transactions, and on the other hand you don't enter a certain form of privacy, is there always a question of privacy return, what you can do as a person, especially when you're giving that money to the bank as many individuals as you are, as much as you're asked for certain data from the source of that money. What is certainly to praise what is enough in Croatia pisses people off, and that is the part that is the real owner. We're talking about companies here, and I'm talking about the transparency of the data in Articles 32 to 36 here, and the minister here was saying the question of the public, that the things of the owners of these companies, and that's exactly when they came and bought certain properties, and not only did they buy them as physical but they opened up companies and later bought, is the question of their real owner and public access to that data. But here the question arises not only is someone going to damage the state budget or damage or in this way legalize this money laundered but the question also of those who do, means entrepreneurs who work with those who hide behind the TV. Custodial accounts and various other unnamed data. So it is important that this approach should be given if we see that this debate is also being brought into the EU to make this as public as possible. And I believe that if the European Commission agrees in those directives, it should strive to make all these data registers of real owners public. This gives us 3.7 million kuna for funding, I think it is correct for which the EU imposes such a form, imposes this directive on us to ultimately co-finance in the establishment of such a register. This may seem a little pleasant to the public because it will now be specifically analyzed by politically exposed persons, and then perhaps the accounts of the Prime Minister, the president of the state, ministers, deputies, etc. are being analysed here. Here and mentioned in article 46, I might just ask a question here, maybe I didn't read it right, and what about the local leaders? So it's not natural for me to analyze all the accounts of the Prime Minister and the President of the State, and not to analyze the local accounts of the local leaders of the so-called. "local sheriffs" in certain places and in this way especially if we know that we have said that one way to finance real estate on the Adriatic is one of the forms where this form of money laundering can be very easy. So it's important for me to see if there are any of these nine who are listed here, if there are local leaders. Then here we talked about this restriction on how to finance up to 75 thousand kuna and up to these 200 grand where certain reconnaissances will be sought. I think it is also important to mention here today that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is only one link in the entire chain and that it is simply good functioning of all state bodies here that it is important, in fact, to come to a certain verdict or to prevent such funding or ultimately and damage to the state budget and ultimately also damage in general for the Republic of Croatia. So we generally accept this form, this law, we think it's good. With all those who can still give certain supplements to improve it is commendable. On the other hand, however, operational matters should also be discussed. We are part of the single and European market, and now, not only must we act within these directives but also these commendations to go towards the office and manuals and other institutions within the EU, it is very important that close cooperation between European units, intelligence units and Croatian units is very important. But what's on the other hand is the fact that even a much more developed country that invests a lot more money, which puts this kind of money up, you can't see who have problems with the fight, with the fight against terrorist financing. And in this context, unfortunately, we are in one new period and where we need to be particularly careful, especially if we know that we are very sensitive to tourism, any changes, and I hope that in the future we will not have any problems and certainly support both the office and the minister to continue in this, and especially that these activities that are being done are certainly in coordination with other institutions and that, certainly, they will also make a much better contribution to the ultimate discovery. So once again, the SDP club will back this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41710	Thank you. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41711	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lalovac, you mentioned one important thing in your presentation. So I think article 46 should definitely be expanded. It seems to me that, you were the finance minister, you probably know how much through public procurement and at local level, money goes to the local level, and that's huge money. We've got a case, here in my county, talking in the towers, that mayor's been bought an apartment, that one's been bought an apartment at sea, just what you mentioned. These things should be very controlled because I don't see the reasons why these leaders are especially here mayors where a lot of public procurement is carried out, concessions that exclude them from this. And maybe we should put in the setup, see these family members, maybe we should put in best men for Croatian occasions, I think that's enough for us, a lot of those situations where the best men had their share because it's big money and really everything that's waiting for us. You see now, as of July 1st, I think that this provision of the Public Procurement Act does not take the lowest offer, somehow everyone has hurried to discuss these public procurements now before July 1st. So here at the hospital in Rica is already pushing outsourcing, already pushing to do business, although there is an equipped hospital with bed linen washing devices, already pushing it somewhere further, already doing this competition, now being sought, the decision of the County Assembly is sought. So these are all the things that cause doubt, and that's why I think this would be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41712	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, yeah, so this is where corruption and this form of illegal money were talked about in general. But here, especially with this law, it seems to me that whenever foreigners come, you understand, we do this in a single European market, you have 500 million people with different passports that trade on the European single market, and then the problem of these foreigners who want to actually do some illegal activity that they have done in another country to get that money across the border now that we know that there are no more such controls, is the question of whether, as it will be, to come simply to the Adriatic, to come and buy that kind of property. And it makes it difficult for institutions to function because it is no longer so easy to enter into each individual transaction especially because there are transactions between two natural persons that cannot be under such supervision. And that's the problem that we're going to see in the future, whether through these transactions, or through the laws, and I think this is a good register of real owners, it's certainly one of the steps where they're going to see their property rights, and especially if that's how companies do it. And so maybe through some other additional things not to endanger and certain privacy of people but certainly to take this consideration especially for local leaders, but I say if it's done over the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia, ministers, parliamentary representatives, I don't see why local leaders would be excluded from this section and mayors or anyone else if we're all for transparency. I don't think that unless it's indicated that maybe the second reading is specifically listed by local leaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41714	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41715	I would like to thank the President, thank both the Minister and the Associates for the presentation of this law. So we have before us a bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. '97. When we first passed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, so much money laundering was not brought into line with terrorist financing. Unfortunately, in 2001, when we had unfortunate events, an attack on "citizens" and the like, a new dimension is being studied and new activities are being carried out in preventing money laundering, or the correlation with terrorist financing. In 2003, immediately afterwards, we introduce new crimes related to money laundering, also by setting up an Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and by this add-on in 2004 means that we establish a system which, of course, does not only make up that office but also makes up all other institutions, banks, customs, tax administrations and so on. We know that this office, as in most countries, has been established as an administrative type, of the 151 states, belongs to the 71% that were thus established. When we are in other countries, here I can say in person, I do not want to generalise but yet this uncertainty and fear of terrorism is feeling stronger and we can wonder if it is necessary for us all, how much money is spent on this prevention, is this the main problem in Croatia. But when we see here data that a lot of such transactions have been observed since January 2009, that this office has done a lot of work, and this amount of suspicious transactions of 175 million kuna are still telling us about the great need, means these activities. What Croatia, as we all have seen, cannot afford to allow any such situation of terrorism in Croatia to happen because of the sensitivity of our economy that is related to tourism and the like. In this law we address 10 basic issues, so every 4 years a national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is carried out, I would also point out here this restriction on cash operations for legal or natural persons carrying out registered activities in the Republic of Croatia to 75 thousand kuna. I stress, in the case of natural persons, it is only natural persons with registered activity in the Republic of Croatia. I saw that the Justice Committee commented that maybe we should lower this amount, on our Committee on Finance, we talked, maybe it's too low this amount, mostly when it's looking at some kind of optimum and how we discussed it on the board and what the neighbouring countries have done, this is still one amount that's justified by us, meaning 75 thousand kuna. What I can also say is, most importantly, the establishment of a register of real owners of legal entities for the transparency of data on the real owner of legal entities. We know that these activities may sound to us to require the most activity and may need some means, but we saw in the explanation that already existing channels would be used and that extra money would not be needed. Here will also collect data from the source of cash transactions worth 200 thousand kuna and more, of course, there are arguments that this amount is also coming down, but this is so far one that is considered justified and we here, of course, as we politicians, have also commented on a new definition of the concept of a politically exposed person. For the time being, the law stipulates that they will not be exposed to persons will not be defined as those of the highest-ranking political persons but those of the middle and lower. It is important that we strengthen the institutional and operational independence of the office. In more detail, the deadlines for bonds related to the issue and the duration of orders of the Office for the Suspension and Conduct of a suspected transaction may seem to be such a non-essential provision, but yet this period of 72 hours of stopping these transactions when it coincides with holidays, with Sundays and the like, happened, so in practice problems, essentially most tangible for those who really work and who are in this system. New information exchange technologies among financial and intelligence units within the EU through the decentralisation of the computer network, of course, this requires costs but fortunately, these costs are foreseen in the budget and the funds come from the EU source. And it is important to prescribe sanctions for the applicants of the application of this law that should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. We are also on the Committee on Finance, and here we are already at the presentation of this law on the confirmation of FACTA, contracts and in general all of these laws that expect us to exchange data, some private, personal, legal or legal persons by banks, we have seen this problem when banks require and demand more data than they are legally given because in some activities that are legally assigned, they may use it to get others. We have already said that we must strongly resist it, that people should be aware of what data they must provide, there is also the Data Protection Agency, so, of course, even when implementing this law, this should be taken into account. Here's just to conclude, this law should contribute to making this office more independent, that all these activities be faster, that all these transactions are identified as quickly as possible, because although this means directly related to transactions and terrorist financing, this is the same activity that prevents terrorism from happening pain wherever and, of course, in Croatia, which cannot afford it, because of the specificity of our economy. Of course, no country wants to get into that situation. Of course, the HDZ club supports this law, accepts it and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41716	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague of Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41717	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Rosčić, in the presentation, you mentioned restrictions on the business of natural and legal persons where there could no longer be charges, cash payments, worth more than 75 thousand kuna, purely to reduce the risk of the business itself, and I'm also interested in your opinion on whether this is too little, why this is being reduced in the first place, and what are the experiences, i.e. the experience. What is the practice of other countries? And about that, I mean by looking at statistics, what the minister mentioned, I think we're pretty sure we're also pretty sure about the problem of money laundering, so maybe it takes this many restrictions and so many restrictions in the law itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41718	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41719	Comrade Bacic, thank you for asking. There have been some discussions about what amount to determine, whether it is 75 thousand, the Justice Committee has asked it to be even less, of course we all want to speed up some financial flows for economic reasons, to generally speed up economic activity, but we need to be aware that this is neither openness nor accelerating any transactions to have any other problems that enables such unholy actions, means that they are being carried out. So one optimum of these 75 thousand kunas, there were demands for less, we see you talking and perhaps larger amounts that should be there. And as for the danger, I don't think we should wait for a situation to happen to reduce those risks, but now we need to reduce them. I said before, that we can't afford to have terrorist attacks happening to us, or that our country is going through transactions that are being financed by them, that definitely removes the slightest possibility that this is happening, and we've seen the financial side that the budget won't be further damaged, i.e.. that this part as well as the introduction of new technologies will be financed from the EU source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41720	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Here you go. I didn't realize, but you arrived at the last minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41721	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and guests. Today we are talking about money laundering and we are passing a law that should, as a matter of fact, contribute to a situation that is catastrophic. But all the time I can think of that song, "Who's afraid of the wolf yet," because whatever laws we pass, Croatia is among the worst countries in the world on this issue. So, as I already mentioned last week, an assessment has been adopted, i.e. an expert analysis that among all Southeast European countries, Croatia is far the most corrupt, that 80% of managers believe that the level of corruption in Croatia is high. And there are estimates that according to the so-called. exotic destinations from Croatia amounted to at least $15 billion. So not kuna, but dollars as well as corruption, which includes money laundering annually, Croatia costs 10 to 15% of the budget. Here is to shed some light on this problem I will read you an ad from a newspaper of a company operating in Croatia called Legal Business consultants and which is therefore a reliable partner in the establishment of off-shore and resident companies. Within 1 to 15 days, we will start a company with a name of your choice, and we can offer ready-to-use companies. Most often we organize the establishment of companies in locations with zero percent of taxes such as British Virgin Islands, Bahamas, Mauricios and Belize that pay a fixed annual tax and run a business without accounting. Here, so we find out that in Croatia there is money laundering, so legal work. And what are we doing? How do we fight it? We are passing a law that will not damage those money launderers in any way, because as far as I have seen from the official statistics of this 15 billion dollars in Croatia, some 3.4 million kunas have returned, and we should now solve this problem for me. You have a case, say, if you open the portals now, a little bit of prourfatum bank. So it's a line bank that doesn't have any employees, which doesn't have any offices in Croatia. He's got a seat in Malta. Malta is otherwise known in Europe as a mecca for laundering mob money. They're giving you a loan in 15 minutes. You don't need anything but a picture of your I.D. He's on the bill in 15 minutes. And what's going on? What's the finance minister doing? What's the governor doing? You know what he's doing? He put a notice on the CNB website be careful with the credits of Feratum Bank, be careful. That is, therefore, the measure Croatia is fighting against corruption of money laundering, the robbery of citizens. I also noted that the key problem in this problem is so-called. custody accounts. So, custodial accounts, most of them are in the Zagreb bank are secret accounts, accounts that you can't get the name of the owner, and on these custody accounts it's based on estimates of 76 billion kuna. There is no company in Croatia in which shares do not hold custody accounts, all starting with INA, from Podravka, from I do not know T-Com, from the Adria Group etc. There's these custody accounts everywhere. They usually make up one of the first 10 shareholders. For example, among the first 10 shareholders of the Croatian Telecom, there are four custody accounts. Who are these people? Is that me, is that Mr. Shuker, Minister Maric? We have no idea. And someone is! And they're certainly not Martians! These are some Croatian citizens. We're now making a register of real account owners. So let's find out who owns those custody accounts. We ban them, we stop them. And when we do it within two days, we'll know who robbed Croatia. It'll all be clear. We will see that there are millionaires in Croatia, including billionaires who have never done honest work in their lives. But at the time of conversion and privatisation, they were very well exploited and made huge profits. Among other things, Croatia is said to have 280 multimillionaires. Some say we have billionaires as well. Who are these people we never knew. Why wouldn't the Croatian public know such things? Here's to say Minister Maric I would like to ask, since he was in Agrokor for a time which these custody accounts became the owners of Ledo during the month of April this year? Who bought Ledo the moment the shares fell by about 70%, the moment before they will be banned from trading on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. How do we fight money laundering now, and we can't get one such piece of information from you who has all the instruments in your hands, all the tools to finally shed light on this issue. Here, let's say, the owner of Ledo is the custody account of the Zagreb Bank. He bought 109 shares worth 310 thousand kuna on April 17th. Here, or another PBZ custody account, bought Ledo shares for 860 thousand kuna. So, as far as these custody accounts are concerned, it seems that this is a very serious issue, which is even too often not mentioned in public, and I simply think that this issue of lighting, so, real account owners, would make a lot more of a contribution to preventing corruption and money laundering in Croatia, rather than to this mentioned law, which, therefore, does not touch and then, in fact, sends a message, we here bring laws, and you are free to do as you are used to. You're carrying out Croatian money, and all the burden, all the damage that we've suffered, and anyway we're going to transfer to the citizens, we're going to cut pensions, we're going to bring in real estate taxes and all the rest of the pressures on the building, so ultimately of all this, I'm afraid there's going to be nothing. Who, as well as why is protecting money collectors in Croatia, is now the question that I leave the conclusion to bring everyone for itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41722	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so we're moving on to an individual debate. It's an esteemed colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41723	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. With the introduction itself, the minister was actually talking about the bill's proposal, its advantages and importance and good practice and experiences from the EU. What was not said briefly in that time, which was actually to be pointed out, I also said that in my replica, about the office itself, that is, the number of operational analyses that happened. So it should be said that during that period, the office at an annual level actually carried out about 5,000 as much as I could calculate, 5,000 operational analyses over 1 year. So, Manival actually carried out these evaluations and praised this office, so I will say this, because it was not publicly stated here, that the employees of the office were professionally and well-trained, that they were motivated and that they were regularly educated, that a high number of cases were delivered, with suspicions of money laundering by the office to competent authorities that, for further action and what is important is that representatives of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, but also the Ministry of the Interior pointed out that these analytical reports of the office are high quality and provide a good, excellent basis for the launch of the investigations themselves. The minister also listed 10 points that will be improved by adopting proposals for this law, from a national risk assessment, to the self-registration of the new technology owner, data exchange and the like. By making this directive, the EU Direct 849 will, in fact, result in a reduction in the identified risk of money laundering, but also financial terrorism. The coordination of Member States with this Directive includes the establishment of a register of real owners, which, of course, includes certain costs to be incurred by the Ministry of Finance, and it is good that they are as such envisaged and secured by EU projects, amounting to €3.7 million, and only information. The colleagues themselves today both individually, on behalf of the clubs, praised this bill, which can serve the Ministry of Finance and all of us in the Republic of Croatia. But here I want to pull one parallel and actually one loud thinking, given the information, which is not directly related to this bill, but it is good to know it through the Ministry of Finance and I would like it to be actually an initiative of the Ministry of Finance towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in fact it is about the following, therefore, registers of real owners will be publicly available to those institutions that need to work on this matter by the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the DORH, the CNB, which is very good and it is good that it is not, that it is not publicly published because we are all... What my colleague Bunjac was saying would cause a series of negative connotations here, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who need it actually know. At the moment in the Republic of Croatia, IT, IT staff, IT programs, info systems, licences, maintenance, creating real difficulties for public and state administration authorities. If you look at 20 ministries, state offices, several 10s, more than 40 agencies 556 units of local administrations and self-government, institutions, public institutions, all of them in some way have their information programs, their information systems that are not really compatible, are not scalable, they are not interoperable, they are not networked and they are actually difficult to connect to the Republic. Some are praiseworthy and can connect, but actually when we introduced the OIB, we actually thought about such things, I know that now there is an EU Esse project for the exchange of electronic data. It is a very important project, in fact it is about non-refundable payments, whether it is about child support, child support, care assistance, or non-refundable pensions that actually damage Croatia's budget quite large amounts, so I would dare say that the information systems in all these public and state administrations are difficult over a billion kunas. I mean a billion kunas, I mean money that could be used in the Republic where and where better, not just to pay for these programs, licenses and their maintenance, and I'm saying that they can't be used as such completely. I think it would be good to think about the following, given such a large amount, the Ministry of Finance through the APIS I am sure that it is owned by the state and city of Zagreb, but also by the FINA Financial Agency as one operational body, it can think about it, not only about this law, not only for the EIF project of the EU, but also about the effectiveness of the information systems in the Republic of Croatia and the misuse of money from the state budget related to several dozen more precisely over 70 state fees, subsidies and other payments that the state cannot fully use and cannot control about the large resources of the state budget. So I think that this initiative should go through the FER students and computing to fund them, to scholarship them to the state's account so that they can work through the APIS tomorrow, or the FINA, a single RS information system that would help a lot, I say, because of the abuse of such funds. I hope that this will happen and that we will have an effective and secure information system and that it will actually help in such things, not only the Ministry of Finance and the expenditure side of the budget, where we must keep an eye on each kuna, but also on the abuse of the system in providing compensation, certain subsidies that we can and through the OIB networked into a common information system use, and this can also lead to the prevention of money laundering in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41724	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41725	...the information system and its efficiency. So here's to breaking taboos and what's insinuating that custody accounts aren't controlled then I have to deny it because by participating in a variety of jobs, and primarily when issuing securities then the exact procedure and the way the trust account is opened, who opens it with all the data exactly what you have listed, the name, the name, the OIB, the residence, etc., so all the detailed data are recorded and kept in records and there's no fear and there's no fear with this law that control and records are quite achieved and can be achieved at any time by the competent institutions that are authorised to request information and have real and complete insight into the complete records of all such holders or holders of trust accounts. Because in the very law when the actual issue of securities is then the holder of the securities cannot be the guardian. It must therefore be some authorised institution with which an additional contract has been concluded. So here's to break that taboo and deny that in this way he wants to hide any data. However, in this way they can be very well kept and recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41726	And the answer to my colleague Babic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Peric, it's good that you explained how a custody account is being opened. And when you were talking about the information system, I was referring specifically to a stable information system related to the bodies of public and state administration. This is very important and all those who do so know very well that the Republic of Croatia is losing large funds precisely because of the abuses that are taking place, not because of the information system, but because of a poor information system that is not compatible, and I am talking about non-accompanied payments. Let's just say in the pension system for child care allowance, welfare centres, supplies, assistance and care, it's about billions of resources that we could save just to think about that information system in the Republic of Croatia connected with the APIS, along with the FINA, with young students who can stay there. Is the days in the public administration hard to find informers who can work for you for 4, 5 or 6 thousand kuna and perform very complicated and maintain such systems. They go to private companies or go outside. And in this way we left young people in the Republic of Croatia, they'd further stimulate them, and we'd make the information system more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41728	Thank you. And the final address of the finance minister, distinguished counterpart Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41729	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Well, here's a little bit. Thank you for me, first of all, for supporting the majority and clubs and representatives we heard, a constructive debate, a few of the good comments we heard and which I will certainly say we will consider until the second reading. Maha refers to the problem of determining the thresholds in terms of cash transactions, either to the respected representative of Shuker or to the representative of Lalovec, which we will take into account. Perhaps one remark related to this topic about these custody accounts. So, of course, the esteemed representative Bunjac spoke about it and mentioned that both in certain companies and in the list of the stock exchange or Zagreb Stock Exchange data are data on custody accounts, but it is still very clear, therefore trust accounts are opened with the natural knowledge and the stock market and mainly the Central clearing depositary society. Which means that these two institutions have data that are also part of the overall structure of the system for preventing money laundering, financing terrorism, and perhaps if in any particular case either one of you MPs or I personally as a minister are not familiar with every detail. The most important thing to say is that institutions that are competent to do so know all the details and therefore, of course, these analysts are acting among other things. Here, thank you very much again for your comments. By the second reading, we will consider these comments that we have heard today and, of course, until the next debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41730	This concludes the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. And if you'll excuse me, we have a replica, dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41731	Oh, just one short replica, we talked a lot about this very register of real owners of legal persons, I should've actually replicated my colleague Babic, but here I was waiting for the final presentation of the minister. Just purely statisticalally short, we know that in previous years we've talked a lot about fictitious companies and especially about that wave when companies were founded for kuna, when it was extremely cheap, whether this register would already be spent on a certain amount of budget but also on EU funds, is this register actually going in the direction of clearing your lists yourself, to see what we have at our disposal, to see how many of these fictitious companies, not just companies, but associations and foundations through which there were also plenty of suspicious transactions that were also well under the increase, they didn't know, had workers and they had certain transactions so that I was interested in whether this register was going in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41732	So I'd say not exactly, I wouldn't bring into analogy one for one of course in this topic, I presented and said what is the basic intensity of the register of real owners. The subject you're talking about can, in part, be bound by a smaller or larger non-essential but the problem of transfer or breach of legal personality is something that, however, through the tax regulations of some others, regulates and solves as such. But surely that the register of real owners will also make much more transparent, mainly to those units and to those bodies of the state administration that should actually be served just to form an additional element in the discovery of these so-called so-called. suspected transactions and any possible preventive activities to which it is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41733	... And we shall vote when the terms are obtained. [[Specially enabled.]] Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 128, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am giving the following conclusion to the vote: ‘1. Proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is hereby adopted and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41736	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a proposal for a law on housing consumer lending. In the first parliamentary reading, of course, as well as in this previous point, I will immediately say that I expect both quality and constructive discussion and comments, suggestions and suggestions that could improve and improve the bill with which I stand here today, together with my associates in front of you and concerning a topic which has naturally gained a great deal of importance in recent years not only in Croatia but of course throughout the EU. Among other things, one of the light motives and the reasons for the adoption of this law is the harmonisation with the European Directive, the 2014 Directive on consumer credit agreements relating to housing, where the focus on the protection of consumers who have been caused by the financial crisis, but we must also say whether due to insufficient information they have found in financial difficulties. On the other hand, of course, the goal is better to regulate the segment of residential consumer lending through the introduction of common rules within the EU in the area of housing consumer credits. I will make it clear here that our deadline as a Member State for introducing and complying with this Directive and the adoption of this law was still on 21 March 2016. However, we should also point out those objective circumstances that led to our being late. However, we believe that despite this delay through a quality debate within the two readings in the Croatian Parliament, we will implement a good law which in the future, therefore, will affectprofuturo, I will not say full elimination because we can never be completely sure but certainly bring and suppress to the minimum possible extent of the different circumstances that have led to a number of problems mainly for our citizens, so consumers of these services. So last year we also held a quality public debate during the spring of 2016, after which we sent the bill to the government's procedure, the government passed it, the Croatian Parliament came, however, I repeat once again the objective circumstances that are known to everyone, which is the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament did not lead to it being discussed and voted last year. We have repeated the full procedure with one additional and counselling at the level of the government's body. I will also mention that at the beginning of this year we had an additional quality debate not only at the level of the Ministry of Finance and the bodies that are closely related to them but also by the Ministry of Administration which has also given important and good comments. And we repeated the whole procedure, the government adopted him at a session in March and sent him to the Croatian Parliament and he is here today, of course, ahead of us. A segment of residential and consumer lending in the Republic of Croatia has only been partially regulated by the Consumer Credit Act so far. The application of the Consumer Credit Act under this proposal will no longer apply, therefore to housing credit agreements, it will apply only to consumer loans up to a million kuna. The conclusion of a residential consumer loan contract with it inevitably carries risks. Risks are impossible to avoid completely but can reduce their impact on the personal finances of the consumer's life. It is therefore a special emphasis on information prior to the conclusion of a housing credit agreement, both on financial and other risks. In the light of the assessment of the personal financial situation and of the expectations of future income and expenditure. According to such an analysis and personal preferences, the consumer must decide for himself what level of risk he wants to take and for what purpose. At the same time, the element of the globalisation of the financial products and services market should also be mentioned. Any more complex financial products and services, as well as the imbalance of power, i.e. the inequality or asymmetry of the available information held on the one hand by financial products and services providers, and on the other, the users of those same financial products and services. This has led all together to the need for better and more detailed regulation of consumer lending segments by quality rules in the area of housing consumer lending, as well as well as well-designed financial education programmes, with a view to raising consumer financial literacy, reducing that imbalance and raising the level of financial literacy in society, thereby contributing to better governance and the availability of personal finances, which enables the individual to raise and achieve personal benefits, but, of course, benefits society as a whole. As far as the consequences of the financial crisis are concerned, I think that in this Croatian Parliament as well as in general in our public, professional and general, there has been a lot of debate and I think that everyone here knows very well any of the general examples, and we can say in a number of individual cases, so the effects of the financial crisis are well known. I will be apostrophe here of a topic which is also very important and current to us as the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we have announced and, of course, we expect and support all professions and, in general, all who can be involved in this, that, among other things, the problems of the blocked or completed and of all the people and citizens who have enjoyed certain problems, with mah and good work and not with their own guilt, are beginning to solve. On the one hand, of course, the past is past and we need to make every effort in how and how to make it easier for our citizens because of these problems, so we are talking about a case of 328 thousand 872 citizens who, by the end of April 2017, have been blocked in the total amount of blockade of more than 42 billion kunas, but we are also talking about future steps that need to be done, in which the laws and in which the volume and how it is necessary to change and vote in this high House in order to actually prevent and reduce the possibility of such phenomena which have been reportedly high in recent years. It is also important to highlight how this Government implements the Action Plan for improving consumer financial literacy for 2017, which was built on the basis of the national strategic framework for the period 2015-2020. We are in progress and this week we have a final phase, so we can say, a descriptive project in this step of the body and employees of the state administration which, of course, these acquired knowledge and experience should, in fact, be further transmitted. So this financial description and literacy certainly and through this topic is actually getting even more important. Also before the papers and news in the law and its presentation, very short on the credit situation and on the credit market today. So here, after a few years of contraction of credit activity mainly towards the population, from the beginning of 2016, the mild has been recorded, I will indeed say mild, these are not some significant growth rates, but nevertheless the recovery of that credit activity, mainly according to the population. Of course, with a favourable rate movement which, in a good way, one part actually goes to all of us for the benefit of continuing the mitigation of credit approval standards but also the growth of generally credit demand for businesses and the population. It's something that's certain, I'll tell everyone in the interest that this activity is improved, improved, so this law should also be looked at in that segment. At the same time, of course, the effects of the financial crisis have created a very high burden not only on the banking system, not to mention its difficulties, but still these difficulties have certain implications for our entire economy. This is primarily reflected in the high share of uncharging loans, so-called. bad and non-refundable loans, which at the end of 2015 reached a level of close to 17% and recorded finally a slight decrease in certain segments something slightly weaker but of course, certainly a trend that should continue and improve to open up space for credit activity, but healthy credit activity towards Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. As for the papers in the law, so I'll be apostrophe of the most important ones. I'm sure you've read this draft thoroughly, and I've commented on the internal law. Therefore, on the one hand, increasing consumer information. Therefore, this law introduces a European standardised information form at EU level that will contain all relevant information on the creditor, credit intermediary, the main features of credit, interest rate, early repayment, etc., which will make it easier for consumers to compare credit offers. When the credit institution delivers a binding offer, it shall leave a period of at least 15 days for the consumer to make an informed decision within which the offer is binding on the credit institution. The consumer shall be granted the right to give up the contract without reason and without compensation within 14 days of the conclusion of the contract. The second point is the calculation of the effective interest rate. So, here it should be said that this topic and existing legislation were partly regulated, we know that banks publish data on effective interest rates, however, the calculation they were doing, we cannot speak mainly about the course of the loan plan itself, was not satisfactory. Thus, in this part, the calculation of the effective interest rate at EU level is even, with a certain mathematical formula to be used at the beginning and during the duration of the credit. The total costs entered in the calculation of the effective interest rate, i.e. the ECS, are also precisely defined. The total cost of credit for consumers includes the total cost of a residential consumer credit for consumers, which includes interest, fees, taxes and any other charges that the consumer must pay in relation to the housing credit contract, and which are known to the believer other than the public notary's costs. The costs of additional services relating to a housing credit contract, and in particular insurance premiums, shall be included if the conclusion of a contract on the provision of other services is mandatory for the purpose of obtaining that loan or obtaining credit under market conditions. Also, the cost of assessing the value of the property if this assessment of the value is necessary for the approval of a residential consumer credit, and the cost of opening and managing an individual account, the use of payment means and for transactions and the withdrawal of the tranche from that account, and other costs related to payment traffic in cases where opening or keeping an account is also agreed for the approval of a residential consumer credit. The introduction of new credit charges during the duration of the loan and the undue increase in the fees that existed at the time of the conclusion of the housing credit agreement is prohibited. I can't say that this is a complete newspaper, because the existing Consumer Credit Act and the Credit Institutions Act are already supported by this standard. However, in this way we also further emphasize it in this law. Greater consumer protection in foreign currency lending. Therefore, it is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to inform the consumer every time the value of the total outstanding amount that the consumer is obliged to pay or regular meals, i.e. the novelty is changed by more than 20% in order to change the course. The credit institution shall be obliged once during the duration of the contractual relationship at the request of the consumer at any time of the contractual relationship to enable the conversion of the currency credit in which the credit is... or to which it is bound in an alternative currency and without condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The credit institution shall not charge the consumer a conversion fee. The terms and conditions of the contract shall include at least the method of determining the interest rate to be applied in the case of conversion. In carrying out the conversion, the credit institution shall not seek the replacement of property that serves as a means of insurance, additional means of insurance, or the assessment of residential property as a condition for the implementation of the conversion. Then we get to the point of early repayment. And I will make it very clear that, in the context of the opening presentation of the first reading, we had a very long and detailed debate at the level of the Ministry of Finance and at the level of the Government. We are in the context of a public debate that I repeat once again led last spring, last year we also expected on this subject some possible additional comments. They weren't at the moment, but we decided to deal with this problem anyway. And what has so far been foreseen in the Consumer Credit Act is a rate of 1% for loans with a one-year repayment period to reduce to 0.5% of the remaining principal amount. However, I will also say very clearly and openly that in this debate I also expect your proposals and suggestions from the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be fully eliminated, i.e. that in this law, we have a proposal in the context of the second reading that says there is no more compensation for early repayment of the loan. The process of assessing the consumer's creditworthiness is estimated to be based on information on the financial economic situation of consumers including its incomes and expenditures, and should not be based on the fact that the value of housing is greater than the total amount of credit or on the assumption that the value of residential property will grow. The loans offered must therefore be in line with the financial situation and consumer needs. The level of expertise and knowledge of credit institution staff and credit intermediaries, as well as the arrangement of credit intermediaries, or their supervision, shall be defined. What I would like to mention in the end is therefore improving consumer protection in the event of difficulties in paying commitments. It is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to take reasonable and justified measures with a view to reaching agreement on the payment of obligations under the housing credit agreement on which non-payments from consumers are made prior to the initiation of the enforcement procedure. According to the European Banking Supervisory Authority, EBA should also take into account the individual circumstances of the consumer, consumer interests and rights and its ability to continue to pay the credit and to decide on further steps, and first offer to the consumer some of the following measures to facilitate the repayment of credit, total or partial refinancing of the loan contract, change the terms of the loan contract that may include the extension of the payment period, change in the type of real estate insurance, e.g. the replacement of mortgage fiducia, etc. Suspension of payment of the whole or part of the instalment for a specified period, change of interest rate or offer of a temporary suspension of the payment of the so-called so-called payment. moratorium. A credit institution shall not assign or charge to a consumer who has difficulty in paying for additional fees resulting from non-compliance with the obligations laid down in a housing credit agreement. And one news that this law explicitly states that a credit institution may agree with the consumer and the issuer to transfer ownership over the instrument of insurance of a residential consumer credit to a credit institution to be considered to be a complete fulfillment of all the obligations under the housing credit contract. It's an English term, so-called walk away clauses, so that's how you settle all your obligations. We're the end of June today. I expect to repeat again in this first reading quality debate. The second reading is foreseen, according to the beginning of the fall session immediately, so after the summer break, and then the adoption of this law and its entry into force with the beginning, i.e. the fastest possible start after the vote in the Croatian Parliament, and that everything that is necessary with this topic and the problem is, of course, adequately regulated and solved. We believe and are certain that this law will also contribute not only to the regulation and regulation of the legislative framework, but also to the essential improvement, in particular, in that segment which I have apostrophyd and in the first sentences, which is also in the protection of consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41737	I thank the Minister of Finance and we have six replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41738	The President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Maric, should therefore be supported in any case by this legislative proposal. Any legal proposal that benefits consumers, in a way, protects from banks. Why do I say "bank protection"? Because here is a colleague of Lalovac who was the finance minister, who strongly opposed the banks, not because they didn't get what they deserved, but to take what they didn't deserve from the citizens. In that sense, this proposal of yours should be supported. We can all agree that many citizens have come into financial difficulties and not by their own fault and that many of them, after 10 or 15 years of paying the loan, are even more obliged than they were at the beginning. Even when their real estate is sold, they can't get back what they took. In that sense, I welcome this provision, you have now, in the end, pointed out, that is Art. 28. Article 4 Now I have one question for you specifically. Of course, the formulation here can. Do you really think it will happen in practice for a credit institution to conclude such a contract, or should I say, perhaps even in Dalmatia it will, but can you imagine in Slavonia a credit institution with any of the consumers to conclude such a contract that the value of the property can completely close the loan. I doubt it, I'm almost certain that it can't stand even a provision of the sea, but maybe that article can be completed somehow. Anyway, it's to welcome that provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41739	Thank you very much. Well, here's my dear representative, your point is, I'll say it all the way in place, because, among other things, we've discussed it internally. It is precisely this provision that can give opportunity to the consumer, but also to the credit institution, that this provision is initially concluded as such. Whether and in any way and in any way what repercussions of the conclusion of these provisions will be in relation to the overall conditions offered to the consumer, this and this law and to some other elements, I will say to the competition myself. Because if in one credit institution maybe someone or a credit institution is not willing to make such a provision, we're sure, either we believe or exist to believe that in another it will be possible. In this way, and this standardised form that I mentioned earlier, which will have a review of all these types and fees and all of it, will give a comparable display to consumers that, then in a simpler way, they have a much more transparent view of which credit institution is offered and, of course, without any obligation to an existing credit institution or anyone else, actually go towards the one which will grant credits that satisfy it or it. I'm going to just one short analogy, history, here will also come, among other things one law concerning the comparableity of fees, it has nothing to do only, here we're talking about residential consumer lending, but I'm talking about this comparable fee on other forms of credit, consumer types and the like, non-purpose, we're also going in this direction, actually to make it in a transparent and comparable way, either through a standardised form, either through some methodology that the CNB will prescribe, but that indeed the consumer has comparable extreme parameters in one place and then on it or on it is the decision in which direction it will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41740	Replica number two. Dear comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41741	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You were talking about an increase in unpaid loans in the Republic of Croatia, so I was wondering if the two loans that the Adriatic Bank's recovery administration gave to Agrokor, one, at the end of 2015, were going to go to that category at the end of 2016, so in your mandate? She gave an escontitial note, twice in debt, so she bought Agrokor shares for 52 million kuna, although the underlying capital of the bank amounts to 52 million kuna and thus should not be given such loans. Do you, as directly superior to the rehabilitation board, or to the State Agency for Savings Insurance, support that 3 employees of the Adriatic Bank who spoke about it have been suspended and that the Adriatic Bank's rehabilitation administration has raised criminal charges, I repeat criminal charges against the Free Dalmatia journalist, who, therefore, wrote about this issue for the sake of public interest. So, in which way the Jadranka bank will repay all these loans, I repeat, she was in great losses, she has a financial administration, it's a question that interests their savings. Which, therefore, is the Adriatic Bank's order of collection with Agrokor and how you as a direct responsible person can influence that in the future, such harmful transactions are no longer carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So credit statistics, credit quality, and share of non-refundable, so-called. I don't... HNB leaders, therefore, are something that are standards of methodology, internationally recognised and comparable to other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Adriatic Bank, I will say in two phases, before and after the recovery, certainly as a credit institution in the Republic of Croatia, participates in this statistics, I will only remind you that this is one topic that was very current last year, and this is one bank that has a very significant, regional importance in the Sibenik-Knin County and in that area, in fact came into difficulty and there was a question of whether a bankruptcy would be launched or some other form would be implemented. And I will be apostrophe of the efforts that exactly the agency that you mention, the Agency for the Insurance of Savings and Rehabilitation of Banks, made to the greatest extent, and this is actually a quality model of resuscitation of credit institutions including here at the Adriatic Bank as one of the first looking examples which, I can say, for now quite successfully in this process because the bank itself has been cleansed and cleared from these poor discounts from the past, and the continued conduct of the Bank... regulated by this recovery plan, and of course there are services and bodies of the bank that are responsible for further steps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The information I received, some time ago in the course of the debate on this topic, is that the Adriatic Bank has even reduced its exposure to Agrokor, but certain details, of course, of each credit party, as well as to you, as well as to me, are not all, of course, known details. But yet I am apostrophe that the Adriatic Bank certainly, the efforts made in the sense of the recovery of that bank have allowed to reduce the potential damage that was on the one hand for the state budget and the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, but also for its savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41743	Thank you. Next replica representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41744	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Minister Maric. You said two findings that are relatively accurate or relatively incorrect, as taken, apparently that's true, but actually that's not true. You said they were in favor of the interest rate as they fall now. Looks like it's true. The interest rates are reduced according to the reduction in the value of EURIBOR and RNA on the market, that is correct. However, on the other hand, the bank unlawfully, arbitraryly and outside the contractually defined the parameters for changing the interest rate, which did not respect the initial lending conditions and therefore should be lower by 1 to 3 percentage points and not by 0,2, 0,3 as they are now falling. So it is incorrect that interest rates fall in the right sense because they should be down to 3 percentage points. This can be resolved by amending the law, and these changes will soon be in the parliamentary procedure. The second thing, you said banks have difficulty charging their claims, which is also relatively correct. Why? Banks have prepared in advance that they will not have difficulties precisely at high interest rates. In our wild market, which was not sufficiently arranged, they negotiated interest rates that were even 8, 9, 10% and prepared in advance to have no losses, so before the conversion itself they earned 40 billion kunas, during the conversion they had a temporary positive zero, and after the conversion they again earned 6 billion kunas next year. So banks in Croatia have no difficulty, but banks in Croatia have El Dorado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41745	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41746	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor. Yeah, well, I can agree in this part that you said that, of course, every sentence or statement can always be observed in some way or some parts of it in a relative way that the meaning was one or the one, so maybe a little more detailed in these minutes and a half I'll try to explain. Here you are talking about the theme of reducing interest rates, this is one of the findings that can also agree that it is a relative term because we listen to in the Republic and in general in our public that we are in the period of the historically lowest interest rates. And I also constantly apostrophe that if we look at it from the perspective of the reference interest rates at global level, because some reference interest rates have also recorded negative values in the past months and three months, but at the same time that total interest rate we pay as a state, all taxpayers, economy and citizens depend on that so-called so-called ". the risk premium, therefore, to the part that is added to it, either through the margin or already which form to be apostrophe and to calculate the total interest rate. As regards Croatia's reference interest rate at its historic minimum, however, Croatia should also compare with other countries where we are concerned with these risk premiums. And I think that you also know very well the government's efforts in all of this, mainly in the consolidation of public finances, to reduce Croatia's risk premium to its own capital or debt price, in order to improve and reduce the total cost of interest, whether the state budget, the economy or citizens. As far as this second finding is concerned, very briefly. So banks and credit institutions are also taxpayers in Croatia, part of the economy is also to be taken care of, but my sentence was mainly aimed at consumers. Thus, the problem of high and non-performing stakes, high non-performing loans with a macroeconomic aspect also sees as an obstacle to the credit activity of these same credit institutions in encouraging investment economic and other activities, i.e. to fostering the credit activity of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41747	Thank you. Next replica representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41748	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric. I'd just like to ask you, the cost of credit assessment, I'm doing it from some experiences of my fellow entrepreneurs I've seen and I know it, we pay and the mass of people have raised loans, but their real estate has fallen, businesses or craftsmen have come into trouble, banks can't be charged at the height of those property they have fallen and prices specifically talk about Slavonia and what happens next, these same people who are done can't pay the loans, they're taking 30% for employees to pay back that loan. If the appraiser has assessed some property that is worth as much as it is worth, we believe they can take that property and not continue to execute the entrepreneur if he starts doing anything else at any other firm and anywhere. How to solve this and how to reduce interest at the end say the risk premium is big so we have to have a little more interest than other countries in Europe, but I personally see that our banks are doing a lot of interest to our citizens and that you can influence this problem and that it is shrinking and that we are in a favourable position. But I would especially like to hear from you that why banks go on, no matter what they take that property, they put on it some kind of performance, no matter what that man does, it goes on to borrow it all the way. I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41749	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41750	Thank you very much. Your Honor. If you don't mind me to this second part, here's a sentence I heard about you, Croatia must pay. And I can personally say myself a few times I found myself in such a sentence that we have to pay more interest. We have to change that first. So that's what I'm saying, that risk premium must be no one's alibi, though, but the incentive to do whatever it takes to make that risk premium as low as possible, and then we all pay lower interest together. I am apostrophe from my section as a member of the Government and Minister of Finance of course public finances and the consolidation we have made during which day here in the Croatian Parliament we will discuss the implementation of the 2016 budget where we will also see what efforts and results were obtained to make Croatia finally after many years and stabilise the prospects of its credit rating. So let's get out of the excessive deficit procedure, that's all steps, steps, or big steps, whatever we call them, it's relative terms again in terms of reducing the risk premium. The movement of reference interest rates on world markets is something that Croatia can't normally influence. And expectations that, by the end of the year and from the beginning of next year, we are actually recording the end of that historic period of lowest interest rates. Surely we need to be even more encouraged to just influence that so-called. the risk premium so as to minimise this increase in these reference interest rates and, of course, protect the interests of taxpayers or the state budget of all our citizens and economies. As far as this element is concerned, you know that credit institutions, both in terms of documentation and conditions for granting credit, are asking the insurance instrument as a rule of property to which some other additional insurance instruments apply, the existing legal regulations and procedures actually allow it as such. We of these legal changes and this very provision that we discussed earlier, or opened in terms of walking away from the clause, is something that should reduce the risk of just these forms of occurrence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41751	Thank you. Next replica representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41752	... until March 2016 because of the election, we didn't have time to do it. [[Specially enabled.]] And then I said and now I repeat that it is a shame that Croatia has been brought into new elections because of the political disagreement between HDZ and the Most. Except that the cost of the election is harmful to Croatia and you yourself have said that this is a bad time since at that moment the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia has been defined and possible impact on the anuities and cost of paying off the same Republic of Croatia. So here I am now asking you, with a year's delay, if you can assess how much of the cost of the election, what a pity it is for Croatia that we have lost that time and how much Croatia has lost through the payments of annuity due to the decline of the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, that is, in the context of this law that we can expect in the coming period, that consumers, i.e. the consumers, i.e. loans, can expect to grow or drop interest, or whether we can give some hope to our citizens that they can go to new credit relations and what should definitely be passed, through this new Act of Conduct, Executive Law and other laws, give hope to the citizens and those 330 thousand blocked, to come to a new position and a new chance of life, especially those who are through operational programmes for cattle and pigs raised farms, unfortunately came because of the crisis in the impossible to pay off the same, and left to themselves. Is there any chance for them to make some kind of program and refinance your credit programs and give them a chance to re-start production with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41753	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41754	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it's really hard to assess right now how you said we were trying to be exact in terms of assessing that potential damage. However, I will say that even though we are in a mild delay and what objective circumstances have led to this, I also initially said exactly on the dates when what was happening in this field. I think all that time we actually managed to add to this law to make it even more quality in certain elements. And at the beginning of this year, we had high-quality comments from the Ministry of Administration. Here I said both intro and at the Ministry of Finance's level we had additional discussions and discussions. Among other things, in this fee for the temporary payment of the loan. And despite the fact that it is now in the first reading to you on benches, so these 0.5% we are very ready to go and we suggest we actually go to full elimination. So I wouldn't be bringing into some kind of excessive relationship right now if some significant or significant damage had been done. I think we have a quality law ahead of us. I think that in the context of the debate in the first reading and in the second reading, I am sure we will actually improve certain provisions and make them even better and more quality to the benefit of our consumers. As far as this part is concerned, to promise and give and provide additional security, I think to our consumers all of what the government is trying and planning and what it has done so far is actually in the direction of that. Therefore, there is no greater security in terms of the rise in credit and the repayment of loans than of course the new employment of the total economic activity, the impact as much as possible on the reduction of the costs of these interest. So these are all elements integrated and of that programme that we're talking about, not only economically but in general the government's programme, but also in certain activities that are focused on it. And I also mentioned at the outset, exactly the problem of blocked and executed which many of our citizens of that 328 thousand 872, or almost 330 what you said actually makes it impossible in some further steps. So these are all the elements on which we want to take a step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41755	Thank you. And the last replica of Representative Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41756	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, so more of a commentary than a replica for this part when you said it was both colleagues Žagar and my colleague Misic said, which is very important and that is what you have now said that this walk away model can be done. I think it was absolutely unfair for a citizen, whether a citizen, to bear the burden of falling the price of the real estate market in Croatia. Why? It is not their fault or they form, nor do they affect the formation of real estate prices in Croatia. And imagine when the banks approved the loans, then they came to you and told you that apartment was worth 100,000 euros. And you came in and it was one of the ways that they looked at the financials, they didn't look at the financials, but it was most important to them that they were market-covered property. There's been a recession, there's been a recession, a citizen loses his job, the real estate market, we don't know if it works at all. Because if you have so many blocked citizens, when you can't sell any real estate, you can't sell it because there's simply no market, there's no real estate market, then when it comes to you, the bank says it's worth 50,000 euros now, and now unlike these 50, you'll pay. I mean, that's crazy. It's a crazy thing that nobody can do, not a single economist can tell me that's justifiable. So, if we weren't carrying in that part of the market, people were taking that part of the property out of solving their housing issue for their existence, overcoming the entire real estate market, and when the banks were assessing the market value, it was in their interest to raise that price of real estate. Then the same appraiser comes to you and says now it's no longer worth it to you. I think it's a very difficult process, not just.../The speaker doesn't understand. Now you ask this question, you say whether competition influences, doesn't affect. We know that bankers are simply much stronger when they approve of loans to citizens, but the question is what to do with those who are current, who have kicked them out of their apartments, still banks are looking for very large amounts towards them. It's a burning question and I don't think we can, unfortunately, get rid of this law, probably by implementing or some other law, but it's a burning issue, but I'm glad that at least for the first time introduced into this law one very important clause which I hope will help citizens in the future when they resolve their housing issue. So more comment than replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41757	Thank you. We are moving on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41758	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear ministers, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The law on residential consumer lending was to be passed the day before yesterday, unfortunately not. If he brought it in the day before yesterday, the situation would be much better in the area of lending. This bill that's proposed isn't bad, but I'd say it's a 3+ grade, and it's a great way to get some extras. Those additions have already been proposed to the ministry by me and my colleagues specifically from Franak, but they have not been accepted. And there's no reason not to accept it. It doesn't exist at all. We don't have to stick to the directive like a drunk float. The Directive must be respected in the part in which it is obliged to be respected. But we can further prescribe even better things than in the directive prescribed, among other things, and because our market is simply not the same market in Germany, it is not the same market in Austria. We must comply with our market and in accordance with our experiences which are very bad at lending, where we have hung that banks manipulate interest rates, that they do not warn against risks, that they behave very arbitraryly, that in this everything is held by HNB lotteryes, that the state has been very inert in all of this, so we can and must further prescribe some of the things adapted to our market. So now I'm going to be as concrete as ever and you're all saying that I'm constructive, I'm going to be constructive again, and I'm going to say exactly what the law requires to further prescribe that it would be 4+, and in 5, someone else would have to add something, I'm not the smartest and my association, there are more people in the world. But if this were to happen, I would personally give that 4+ grade law, so far it's 3+. So, first thing. We have a very bad experience with the Swiss franc currency clause. It is not a problem at all, and it can and must be prescribed, in my opinion, that loans granted under the Law on Housing Consumer Credits can be granted exclusively with the euro currency clause or kuna credits. Exceptionally, another currency clause could be given if the borrower, therefore the consumer who raises the credit, has a income or pension in that other currency. It's no problem to prescribe this law, it's allowed, it's possible and it's necessary. Next, the CNB had not quite used to being transparent in publishing certain penalties to banks, so it was said to be a business secret, not to be, that it would harm the bank's reputation. It is therefore necessary to prescribe to the CNB that it simply has to publish all the necessary administrative penalties to the banks. No exceptions. There is no reason not to do this, and even then the banks would be much, much more careful about what they do, behaving much more at the stake with the laws, and not violate our laws and do no harm to consumers. The following thing, when notifying the interest rate before the credit agreement, except that it must certainly be written whether it is fixed or variable or whether the combination of these two interest rates, what has been missing so far, is a very transparent notification of whether the interest rate is also based on some bonus. Because banks often non-transparently display the interest rate as some kind of market rate they offer, but that interest rate is tied to the bonus, this bonus can be linked to the fact that the consumer is a customer of the bank, that the bank receives the salary, or that it has some high salary and therefore has a bonus. So, it must be transparently shown before the loan agreement itself and not that man do in the contract investigates where it says it. This must be made clear. The next thing, it takes several additions that also concern interest rate notifications and the loan itself. Therefore, if it is offered, the conclusion of a Contract on a resident consumer credit in a foreign currency must be made, together with an explanation of the effects for the consumer with a representative example of the increase in the principal, including the rate at which the payment and payment of the credit is made and the conditions governing the withdrawal of the amount of credit used, where the foreign currency may be, I stress, the euro or any other currency in which the consumer has received or retired. Furthermore, what should be given to banks as an obligation is that when a loan is offered, they must either offer or pay in equal annuities or pay in variable meals. The difference in remuneration in equal annuities and variable meals is a very important detail for the consumer. For example, if someone pays off a loan in equal annuities, unlike the debtor who pays off a loan in variable meals, the one who pays off in equal annuities, which is the majority of credits in Croatia today, will pay for some long-term 30-year loan 15% higher credit price. Since it is possible and allowed to repay the loan in both ways, then the bank would certainly have to offer both ways and leave the debtor to decide in which way he will repay his loan, but of course provided that he and the creditor are able to repay the loan for the selected way. Because we're not all credited for different meals, we're not. It's simply because it depends on our incomes. When a loan is paid off in variable meals, such credit is at first more expensive because these meals are at first higher and fall towards the end of the payment of the loan. The next thing the banks should be obliged to do is make the only exclusive method of calculating interest an English comfort method. In fact, we've had cases in the past, I don't think there are any more, that some banks have applied the French method of calculating interest. In the French method of calculating interest allowed in the Republic of Croatia, one and a half percent higher prices per year are charged than in the English method of calculating interest. And we have a verdict by the EU court last year which is clearly and decided, that if a bank applies a method of paying off credit that is different from other banks, then it is prohibited. Therefore, these banks, which applied the French method despite the fact that it was apparently allowed by the EU court, clearly said that this should not be done, so it would not be bad, but it would be desirable to oblige banks to make the only method of calculating interest an English comfort method. There's no reason not to prescribe it. Furthermore, at the request of the consumer, the bank should provide data free of charge on the payment of the loan. She's now charging it from 50, 100, then 150 kuna. You ask the bank, for example, to provide you with a notice of your interest rate changes in your loan and the bank charges you 50 kuna, 100 kuna because it can, because it can. However, if we prescribe that the bank must provide information to the client it is seeking, which concerns his loan for free, then the bank will do so for free. The banks took their liberty so that they could charge whatever comes to mind, and that's why we're here to stop them and stop them. The believer is also obliged and it should be prescribed for all other risks arising from a loan. I'll remind you of a very fresh situation. We had a currency clause Swiss franc where Judge Radovan Dobranić decided in the first degree that the currency clause was illegal. So, not the currency clause as the currency clause, but that particular currency clause Swiss franc. Why did he say that? He found this because banks did not warn consumers about the risks arising from the negotiation of such a currency clause. Because such a currency clause is not the same as the euro. The difference is, the difference is more. The first difference is that the CNB protects the exchange rate against the exchange rate of the euro within the limits of its options, while the protection against the currency clause for the Swiss franc or any other currency clause is not available. So, the bank was supposed to be a fair business entity and it wasn't a fair business entity, it was supposed to warn the debtor, Mr Petrovic, if you agree with the Swiss franc currency clause, you need to know that the currency is nothing to do with the kuna, nothing. That the CNB does not protect the course of the kuna from the course of the franc. That notice was not in the form of a loan agreement. The second thing, there was no notice that the currency clause was a Swiss franc of wild currency. I'll call her that, because she swims freely on the market like a shark. She swims freely and bites whom she arrives. What's this about? When there's a global crisis like the world's crisis, then the rich man's capital runs into the currency clause franc because it's safe here. However, with the large purchase of such currency, its value is increasing enormously. That is also what every bank should have warned its debtor. The third thing that the bank did not warn its debtors about is the fact that the Swiss franc is in relation to the euro and the '73 mark. In 2003, it increased by 168%. Dear colleagues and colleagues, by 168%. A common consumer who comes to borrow he doesn't understand almost anything about finances, but if someone told him you see this currency that you want to contract has grown in the last 30 years by 168%, and your credit is to 30 years. This means that in the next 30 years, you may have an increase in the price of your loan by 168%. Not right away, but 10, 20, 50, 100, 150, eventually up to 168%. That's our experience in the past. The banks didn't warn their clients about it. Therefore, it is necessary to define that banks must warn their clients of any possible risks arising from the loan. The next thing you know about the growth of the currency where the credit is... The bank should warn the consumer and offer him conversion, free conversion into kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to prescribe that the bank would be proactive in all of this, that the conversion should not be more than 20% above the initial rate. If it were prescribed by law that the conversion that will follow because the currency has grown, the currency of the loan, in particular the euro, that they must offer before that conversion and tell the debtor you see the currency, will be 20%. We recommend and advise you to transfer credit to kuna credit and thus prevent your currency risk in the future if it is prescribed that conversion cannot be and must not be at a rate higher than 20%, the banks will be very proactive in all of this and will not just sit quietly on the side and so shyly inform their clients that the currency has become very risky in its specific credit. There are still some general remarks relating to the directive. So, I wouldn't be too much about it because they're not as specific as what I've been saying now, but the directive is in some parts even more rigorous than our law, so we should add that directive to all the provisions of the law where it is not sufficiently incorporated into the law. According to all this, I will write again all the proposals that I have to amend and supplement this bill and I expect the ministry to further study these proposals and to accept them eventually because there is no reason not to accept them. And in the meantime, I will continue to work on what I'm working on, that finally fixed interest margins are reduced to the initial amounts they were supposed to be at the beginning and that eventually out of court the overpaid interest is returned, because we have enough court rulings and there's no reason not to do so. I'm going to put these laws in the process soon, and we'll probably have a debate about it in the fall. I believe we will, and there's something else I have to add. There is often talk of the country's credit risk. I'm sorry that the finance minister has the credit risk of the country tied to our lending, especially residential lending, because residential lending, with the country's credit risk, has absolutely nothing to do with it. These are banking spins that they manage to push through their lobbying circles into both the CNB and the state, so there are no state risks because loans are placed from the savings of citizens. The savings of citizens are linked to the interest charged to those citizens. So right now they're bank fronts, 5 and 6 percentage points. So they earn 5 to 6 percentage points in relation to the money they keep with them, which is saving citizens. So there is no credit risk of the country when it comes to residential consumer lending. That credit risk would exist only in case the banks were to raise credit outside to give us credit. But banks don't raise those loans. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41759	Thank you. We've got two replicas to do by the break. The first one is Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41760	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Alexic, I must say that I agree with most of your exposure, especially in terms of currency limitation, I see no reason to write in this law exactly that it can be the euro, because we know, we hope that in a few years we will be in this euro or Croatian kuna mechanism. I don't think there's any choice there now that someone on the Croatian market is bringing some... or some other form or what you said about binding someone if there were certain receipts in that currency that they could receive, I think it's quite concrete and that there would be no more delusions to limit it to those currencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, about this part, what you said about interest rates bonuses, and you finally said, about the risk premium, that's what's very important, that housing loans are in Croatia about 50 billion kuna, the total assets of all banks in Croatia are about 400 billion kuna. So the savings are 280, so from this 280 billion kuna, it's very easy to find the financing of these 50 billion kunas. And not only do we have this problem that there is no premium of the country's risk to that. So it can't be anyone's account, if banks count the country's risk premium, then the CNB needs to come and punish why they're doing it, because I'm glad, I'd like to hear a banker say it. If that's what bankers say, that they're counting on the country's risk premium, means they're working illegally, then we call on the CNB to come in and that way punish them, because they can't do it, it's illegal, because such a source of funding has nothing to do with it. And the other thing, about their bonuses, so let's see, we were all aware that these years and bonuses work out and out and that this part of excessive credit and then in this part of the loose credit policy, that the bankers are in all the bonuses. They made good money, and eventually all those risks were passed on, it was on to the citizens. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41761	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41762	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear counterpart Lalovac, I am truly sorry that 10 years ago both the CNB and the state and most of the ministers except you, you are a rare exception to the spins of banks on the country's credit risk when it comes to consumer credits. It's terrible how this lie gets into the heads and how much they get away with their high interest rates, just calling for the credit risk of a country that has absolutely nothing to do with consumer loans. It's sad for me to watch. I am also saddened to see that ministry officials, including the Ministry of Finance, do not want to be creative. We have to be creative. If we want our country to move forward, we have to be creative. We can't be bureaucratic listeners. We're not supposed to fall under the banking manifests. They lobby, they just lobby for their own interests. That's normal. I lobby for citizens' interests. And that's normal. But he has to weigh down what's true in that, and what's a lie in that. And the country's credit risks in consumer lending are one huge lie, as were the real estate prices at the time it was a credit boom, so a huge balloon was created, so now these properties are cheaper than they were back then. So I call on all those who participate in power to be creative and respect the rule of law, because banks in the Republic of Croatia do not respect the rule of law and do not respect the rule of law simply because they are allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41763	Thank you. And another replica, MP Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41764	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Alexic, so here's what I'm going to try to say, credit is actually buying time, taking what he can't have right now, because when he can have it, he may not need it anymore. Why am I saying that? Because most of the time we have people who are often, I won't say they're in despair, but people who want to have existence, who want to have an apartment, and they're going to live in the bank, and the bank you said well, the bank is looking at their own interest, there are very educated people, people who know what they want, they know the laws, and often when you talk to people, you've read what you signed, so I haven't really read those fine letters. It's rare that a man has read everything he's signed there. They could've set him up. Why am I saying that? Because it's about education. We're going back to the education system again, we're learning at the school interest account, the basic interest account I remember something about it, but it's not enough. You see in the article, it should be welcomed in Article 6 that the bank's obligation to hang in its space that there are consult points in Croatia there are four, but that is not enough. It is similar to that of the Labour Act when this man writes on some kind of chart what conditions, it is not just enough, it is really necessary to educate people. And we see from the public debate on this law who took part in the public debate? I only think of myself as representatives of the banks. From what I've seen, I haven't noticed, I may have noticed wrong. I mean, people aren't educated enough and there's a lot of work to be done in that sense, and I hope the government and the minister will accept some of your proposals because I see they're constructive and they're really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41765	Thank you. Do you have a reply to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41766	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear colleague Sagar. You said that bank officials were educated, I'll tell you that bank employees at the time when I was raising a loan had no idea what I was talking about, the idea of mildness they didn't have about it. They've been tasked with placing us as many credits as possible, talking us into these loans and not informing us of anything that's beyond that. Most importantly, neither did they know what I was saying today, they had no idea. I have experienced teaching them how to form interest rates, that I teach them about currency risk, that I teach them such things because they have no idea. So bank officials are shoe sellers, they sell shoes that they have to sell, and that's why the state has to impose exactly what the official has to tell the consumer who's taking the loan, and in the event that it's finally being prescribed and then the official will have to know, so he'll go to some banking seminars, so his administration will tell him that he can't be too many people on thin ice, but on the contrary, he has to warn them about all the risks, so it'll all look different. So I argue responsibly that at the time I took out a loan from the bank officials, they had no idea about what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41767	Thank you. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41768	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41769	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my debate. I'll start with one commendation. I think we've got two former finance ministers, the current finance minister. Somehow, this tradition in that ministry seems to be continuing. For every praise it is that, in general, almost always the finance ministers come to defend their laws. That's not exactly the case in all the ministries, but I've noticed since I've been here in the Parliament that the finance ministers do it regularly. In that sense, and thank you, Minister, for coming personally to defend this law. Here, I'm going to start this debate to remember the words of Mr. Gotovina, the government of Gotovina, he said a long time ago, says the government can't live like it's in Germany and the people are like it's in Zanzibar. The government must share the fate of its people otherwise there is no credibility or politics or politicians. How can politicians, of course this is an idealized case, and how can politicians share the fate of the people? Well, it's best that they make fair laws. And in that sense, and this bill of law, although fellow Alexic rated it with a good grade, should certainly be supported. I think it's one of the laws that will certainly improve the position of our citizens especially in relation to, in this case, credit institutions at those times when they need help. In other words, when they raise credit to resolve their basic existential conditions. Of course, the government is not in the most convenient position, on the one hand, in citizens whose goal is, of course, to get credit and to say what, to make it as favourable as possible to pay as little interest as possible. On the other hand, there are banks that want to make sure they don't accidentally run out of funds. If the government adopts too rigorous a law, it may happen that banks do not lend loans and on the other hand, if the law is too flexible, then citizens are in danger. And that is exactly what has proved in history that many citizens have lost their real estate and everything because in one unfair way they were both done and in one unfair way they were, as counterpart Alexic warned, not only were they not aware of all the dangers but even it did not stand in contracts or even stood for them, and even verbally someone warned that all the dangers they could face in the future had they not been able to repay their loans. And in that sense, I'm going to point out now that I'm saying that there are more professional people here than I am, I'm going to stress only certain things that I think are good at this law. And I also believe that the amendments that my colleague Alexic will, either alone or, we will see later, we have more time, either with my club, will be sent to the government and I hope that some of these amendments will be respected, so here we all believe. First of all, it's better to inform citizens. And Article 8 where the CNB, where it is prescribed that the CNB prescribes a range of knowledge and expertise that must be given to persons employed in credit institutions in order to properly inform citizens who raise credits and Article 6 which speaks of the consumer’s financial declaration, thus making it mandatory for the credit institution to inform the consumer. And I think it's even defined to hang in your space that notice where you can ask for certain professional, professional help or advisory assistance. The second thing that is extremely important is Article 28(4), which speaks of the fact that the transfer of ownership can in fact completely alter the credit obligation. Of course, I've already asked the minister, and I believe that this formula is different, and we can't stand. As much as it'll be practical, we'll see. But I think it's certainly to welcome that it's put into this bill. Article 23 also for any praise, enabling a conversion once during a credit period, without compensation, so that the bank is obliged to provide the credit user with a non-refundable conversion of credit. What I also noticed with this intensities of this law is that it wants banks to show a reasonable degree of patience before the implementation of the exercise. As practical as this will be, I hope that these provisions of the articles that we have mentioned will make it possible. However, they are not only, here is not just the Ministry of Finance, and other ministries need to be involved simply to, above all, depend on the economic situation in the country. The better the economic situation in the country, the fewer people who have been blocked, who have been completed. And finally, what might be needed in the future, we hear such proposals raised minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, which will certainly enable better credit capacity for our citizens and then more favourable conditions. And finally what seems most important to me is what the minister mentioned. I also believe he's right when he says that competition will solve a lot of things in practice, because I think it's the right way. When a citizen is well informed and this provision 14 days after the contract is concluded, he can terminate the contract, it is extremely good because he still leaves the possibility that citizens, if well informed and that if someone advises him, will not happen. Here's an example, it's for the section "Believe it or not," one man in Slavonia took a loan, I don't know now the exact amount, mostly after some time in a conversation with another bank from the competition, they said we could offer you to close this loan and that actually when they calculated that he had 200 thousand kunas left, so to speak, in his pocket. He went back to the parent bank, and said I want to close this loan, I have an offer from another bank, when they asked him what, how, when he explained the situation, so don't, give us an hour, two to make a little deal, after some time they called him, and the man passed, not 200 thousand, but 250 thousand kuna cheaper in the same bank. So it's competition. I think if the competition is done with these transparent provisions of the law, I think we'll succeed with this law. And to conclude in the end. The MOST Club will certainly support this law, but I believe that some of the amendments that counterpart Alexic was talking about will also be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41770	Thank you, Mr. Sagar. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41771	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with his colleagues. Here is today the second law, the Law on Housing Consumer Credit, which is also in line with EU directives, and I immediately say that the SDP club will support this law. We believe that it is good, that one step forward, given that we have been part of consumer loans or housing loans through the Consumer Credit Act, but this is the first time in Croatia, that we have one law that deals exclusively with housing lending, and it is a good day and this law that we have taken over as an EU directive, that we are later upgrading it and that later we see what other problems are. Residential lending is one of the most important loans, especially because, not only do citizens resolve their property status, but because it is so important for the entire economy, it is related to the building, it is related to a number of other companies dealing with it, so that all the crises that occurred especially in 2008, and most of the crises and others that were, have actually stemmed from excessive financing of housing loans. It was in the U.S., we all remember that so-called. Subprime loans which, second-rate loans where American banks also offered money and tried to solve a large number of housing issues of their citizens. Also, the crisis in the UK, which was also the largest part of housing loans, and we know that unfortunately we were also aware of the fact that this one long-term recession that affected Croatia, that it was partly caused, and later the repercusions were also on Croatian citizens, mostly due to housing lending. And that is why it is good to finally have one consumer credit law regardless of whether it is an EU directive or not, and in this part we commend that it is here today. And then, according to these specific articles, we can see, as counterpart Alexic spoke today about some very concrete proposals, as we said we agree with them, to see what other problems are and how in the future to avoid excessive price increases in real estate. So here we're only talking about how to finance, but we need to be aware that the problems in real estate financing are also also not just a relationship with the bank, get a loan, get a 3.4% interest so that we can return it neatly, but it's certainly a problem and the price of real estate. We are all aware that the prices of real estate in Croatia that were moving during that one period of 2, 2 and a half to 3 thousand euros in certain parts of the city, when we talk about Zagreb, were simply knocked up, that most of the citizens were also trapped, could not pay their property precisely because of this high price of real estate, and if we know that everything was based on the approval of these loans themselves to be based on an estimate not only of credit performance, so the thresholds were raised, so you can go to the euro, so now you can have 1/3 of the pay, and then you can pay, and then it was converted into a Swiss franc, meaning various different banks worked different models just to be able to finance the citizens because they were full of money, they were simply not just because they were in Croatia because of saving, but were simply, the financial market of extra money was very expensive, then there was one of the ballooning business that came to the first. And then today we're in trouble not only these 320 thousand citizens who are blocked. However, this law cannot, unfortunately, resolve their questions, although there has been a talk here today, means that we should step aside. This is a whole new law, a law on the future, a law on regulating our credit relations with resolving the housing issue in the future, and that's why we have here and commended this walk away option that we don't think all risks can be on citizens, we're talking about the risk of interest rates, we're talking about the risk of exchange rates and the risk of changes in real estate. So, all three of the risks that are the cornerstone of banking management, all three of the risks were on the citizens all the time. And that's what's inadmissible, and that's why there's not only the Consumer Credit Act, so there's this Housing Consumer Credit Act where we have to define how many risks these risks should be on a citizen, and how many risks they should be at the bank. Because it's banks that are licensed by the CNB to manage risks. It is inadmissible to the extent that there is a change in interest rates and here we have found that the formation of interest rates did not affect the risk premium of the Republic of Croatia but rather the savings based on savings and that all these loans were financed from there. Later on, there's an increase in those interest rates. The banks simply said variable interest rates, we transfer that to the citizen. As far as the exchange rate was also the euro, there was a Swiss transfer to the citizen. And finally that third element estimates the value of the property again when you were taking the bank's apartment has estimated a hundred thousand euros to you. Later when you got into trouble, it was just that, they estimated that the market property had fallen to 70. And that risk assessment of the value of the collateral, or that property, goes back to the citizens. And then the question arises: the equality of participation in such a contractual relationship and when it comes to the conversion of credit that the Constitutional Court has actually confirmed that the legitimate bankers have been calling, the whole time they've been calling, let's evenly schedule the costs. And when all the time, when these risks were actually costs, when they were paid by citizens simply not one word and interest rates and the segment of the course and the value assessment of the collateral was transferred to the citizens. By this law, the Law on Housing Consumer Credits is now regulated by one of the elements of the assessment of this one of the elements of the risk assessment of the value of collateral. We haven't had that yet, and that's why it's good, and we're gonna see if it'll show us the practice, if it's going to be the banks using it again, so it won't negotiate the models of the so-called. walk away options where if you can't carry out your credit commitment and actually return that apartment to the bank, that the bank doesn't later charge you, unlike if she doesn't want to sell it on the market. 'Cause watch what their moment is like? The bank that takes over the apartment honestly doesn't care how much it costs to sell that apartment. Why? Because unlike you, they're going to charge you. Now the question is how is it possible that they can sell these properties later on for 20, 30000 euros or 40, 50 that they don't care how much they sell. Why? Because the whole difference will be charged by a citizen. And that is why we believe that if, in that element, they did not comply with ethical standards, or economical standards, then they could not transfer that burden risk to the citizens. It was also said here in the introduction, and the minister said, and we certainly support this part of the remaining amount of the principal in early repayment. We said that there would be a law about all of these fees, and we'd certainly support it if this 0.5% of the remaining capital amount were to be paid prematurely for that fee to be abolished. Because we think it's an additional imposition, an additional cost that we don't think has any economic calculation, or even more. The bank is in the best interest if they think that money will get that money as soon as possible. Then why penalize a citizen if there's a certain amount of money... And now they're going to penalize it right now because it's, it's now come to money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this part of the bank we know is trying to find in any of its elements that a certain portion of the fee is trying to impose. However, this is what we consider to be going in favor of, in fact, banks to come to money prematurely if they think that money can go on... And then we think that this part of the fee, and it would certainly be good for the market if it wasn't there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also related to this information. We think that's a good thing. Also an effective interest rate that will now be able to be compared and a certain mathematical formula can be determined at EU level when comparing these loans themselves. And here maybe I'll just end up saying how important this housing policy is, because we don't just have this law on residential consumer lending. We also have a housing policy and recently we have an interest rate subsidisation, we have also had housing savings which also through this part of funding a certain housing policy as important to the Republic of Croatia because yet research has shown that our citizens like to invest in real estate, not because they may have some special love for these properties but because the simple history taught them that because of high inflation, high some bad history that we have lost are certain values that the simple values have been kept in these properties. They kept a completely different type of financing and the importance of residential real estate and housing policy in the Republic of Croatia than in other countries that are more used to concentrate on a rental market. What is visible and what is good that perhaps in this report of the Croatian National Bank is shown, I will only say briefly, and this is a good trend, and this has been produced by the conversion of the Swiss franc to increase the share of credit in kunas. In 2012, we had about 4 and a half billion kuna housing loans in kuna, and in March 2017 we have 11.2 billion, which means that there is a possibility that we can continue to develop the kuna market, housing loans in kunas. Most of it happened when credit conversion occurred, so many Swiss franc citizens converted into kuna. However, those announcements that the CNB has been saying all along that there are no kunas, that it is not possible to convert it into kunas actually deny themselves because it has proved that almost three times credits have increased in kunas and that's good. Loans in euro are somewhere around 39 billion. So somewhere around 50 billion kuna from all these credits to 117 billion consumer loans. So somewhere around 44% is all about housing loans. And as much as we talk about the total bad jobs here we heard today, we have to say that Croatian citizens pay their loans and pay their real estate. That's what you can tell from the share of these bad loans, so-called. B and C loans that are only 7.5%. If we take some kind of business or economy, it's at 30% level. This means, however, that Croatian citizens pay their housing loans as much as their burden and burden of interest rates and the burden of value assessment, the value of real estate and exchange rate risks. So they're still not able to say it, and we're saying that again to the part where bankers are trying to say not only a risk assessment but it's saying here we have an estimate of bad non-refundable placements. Well, they don't have a problem with that. The bankers have a problem where they've thrown money somewhere else. In some of their projects, those fictitious companies where they'll never get a single kuna of that 45 billion, and we can mention here later, when we talk about blocked citizens, when we talk about 42 billion kuna, you have 4.5 thousand Croatian citizens, which are 22 billion kuna long. Now, in those blocked citizens, you've got a lot of stuff. And you know what that is? These are mainly Croatian citizens who had companies, businesses, who gave their personal bond or debt and when that company actually went bankrupt or bankrupt, then actually the bank, charged with the exchange or debt to him as a natural person, and at that moment this rise in the placements of citizens who were blocked on 42 billion kuna. And now you ask questions, you have 4.5 thousand citizens, 22 billion kuna. So you can't solve them with this problem because they have a whole other way of financing and solving these problems. What's problematic about these citizens is that you have up to 10 thousand kunas somewhere, you have 115 thousand Croatian citizens who are blocked up to 10 thousand kunas. And that's the focus and the law and all the laws that we have to focus on here. These 4.5 thousand, 22 billion kuna-debted citizens, must be dealt with by banks, because these are their problems, their companies that have brought them in. They are not the problems of their overhead, not the payment of the director, etc. So when we're talking about housing loans, why am I mentioning it here again? Because bankers talk all the time, because we have a high non-payment of housing loans, so they raise the cost premium, and then they switch to citizens. That's not true. So citizens are the most valuable in paying their housing loans. And unfortunately, that's what we've been saying all along, they're being transferred to the cost of these bad loans, this is where the banks beat up all this money, by transferring to the citizens. You know why? Well, because they're neat, they pay. Because they're neat payers. Here's what it means again I support this law, I think it's a good one, if some of these fellow Aleskics still adopt their proposals, I think until that second reading, it can be done a little bit, and we finally have a law that we can do later, which will edit housing policy, which is good and certainly commendable to both the fellow minister and the government for putting this law in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41772	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, you have three replicas. He's the first of Mr. Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41773	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, we get along very well, the former finance minister and the financial layman get along very well, well, I look at it from the legal point of view, even if I'm not a lawyer, but I'm into the subject. Income fees, there's no reason to charge any entry fees. There's money. Banks need to borrow, and they don't have to hire any special workers. This job is done by people who are already employed in banks, who receive salaries for their job and there is no reason for entry fees, especially since these entry fees are not even specific to what it is. And what is it if someone charges 1.5% on a 100 thousand kuna loan, a million kuna or 10 million kuna. How can it be the same entry fee? This entry fee should be minimised, for example, if already charged. at 0.5% and further at some cash amount, so it doesn't exceed the amount given the amount of credit, so that it doesn't be something abnormal. As far as the exit fee is concerned, the exit fees are illegal. The Mandatory Relations Act clearly states that early repayment of the loan pays off the remaining principal, interest and possible damages. No harm done, no harm done. There is a ruling by the County Court in Vukovar in 2014, where, on the basis of that powerful ruling, the bank had to repay the exit fee to the debtor who sued. The others didn't press charges, so unfortunately the exit fee stayed with the bank. The bank has no right to charge the exit fee. And whoever allowed the financial laws to enter provisions that were contrary to the Mandatory Relations Act, he made a huge legal mistake. And finally, banks were protected in various ways between other and derivatives, based on derivatives in loans with the Swiss franc currency clause, the mother banks earned all those 7.5 billion kuna costs. So, at the end of the day, it was the mother bank that earned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41774	Thank you, Mr. Alexic. Mr. Laloveca, please respond to your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, so here you are today also in your debate speaking, there is an entry fee, there is an exit fee, there is if the English method 1.5% is more total you have paid. So if the annuity is, if it's payment quotas, right, there's 15%, so it is, there's a bigger total credit war. So did you take in euro, whether you're in Swiss, whether you're in kunas, and that's also up to 10 to 15, 20%. And then eventually, when you return the apartment to the bank, don't return 1 apartment, return 3 apartments. So bring back three apartments, my people, that's the problem. And that's why laws like this should be. And you should, if you have to, because all of these, let's say, the games that banks are on the market, no one can ever get to know you, because that's why people who are angry at that are. So no one, everyone wants to return the apartment, no one contests it. But I'm just asking why the three apartments come back? If we are unique on the European market, the Austrians return 1 apartment, the Slovenes return 1 apartment, the Germans 1 apartment, why must the Croats return 3 apartments? So that's what I'm talking about. If we are unique on the European market, we want to, and we see that Croatian citizens regularly repay loans. I guarantee you that they pay more neatly than in most European countries, and you can see that from this data. And the question arises, why, now that suddenly it's a risk premium, like this, like that. Because we simply didn't have legal regulations, so it was actually trying, so I'm saying that this is a good direction, and if we can complete until the second reading, all these things you said, I hope the minister will respect this exit fee, etc. Anything we can go for the benefit of the citizens, I think it's welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41776	Thank you very much. Another replica is Mr. Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41777	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Lalovac, since you were Minister of Finance, and I personally respect you as a financier and our Minister Maric, but I ask one question, and at that time you had the same problem that is now being discussed, how to resolve what I asked, if the apartment was estimated and paid at 100,000 euros, is now worth 50, and they are being charged otherwise from the same party. I ask you a question, how do you solve it? What is this way that you would solve it today or if you were working in your time, how do you help the citizens, how do you get the banks to do it? Did the citizens pay the assessment and their man estimated the value, regardless of what fell value on the market, the citizen didn't think about it, and they should have known and thought about it as experienced banks. How do you solve that? That's what I want to hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41778	The answer to the line, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Music. That's the question when we were in the government with the Minister of Justice trying to solve and we didn't ask that question but the question and the RBA cooperative. I think that this law will come here and we'll see how we're going to solve that part, and it seems to me that very soon this Executive Law will come again. I think he's the key law where we should get rid of it. And when I spoke to the governor, he was also in this part he didn't even mind that those properties that the bank had already taken to say were almost no more of these claims. And now it's just this question is whether they'll always call for that retroactivity, that these contracts are concluded. However, I think that if we make a decision here in the House that it doesn't matter, do we think it is unnecessary, not even unnecessary, but unfair to all the teams that carried the risk assessment burden, and now, in the new law, the Government is now proposing that in this way it be decided that perhaps in the Executive Law for all these properties, people who are in trouble and that we also refer to the EU directives that were simply then. Because look at me by not joining EU membership when loans were made, when we might have been able to implement those loans Croatian citizens were, as I say, not protected. Well, maybe in that context, talk about how all these things are handled. And I think the banks will agree to that. You know why? Because banks have already booked most of their placements. Why didn't they do it before? Because they were at 40% of the amount, the CNB has made them very hard for the last three, four years to book these burdens of their business... values and banks are already somewhere on 65 to 70% of the corrections they have already booked. And we believe that now the banks have room to release these claims to citizens and, according to Minister Maric, he even gave them a tax relief and I don't think the banks in this context should be able to speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41780	Thank you, Mr. Lalovac. The third line has Mr. Tomislav Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41781	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lalovac, you've opened a very important topic and I think that's the case. The banks don't really need real estate, and what you've all mentioned, it's true that people are emotionally connected to their home, just so I can express myself at home, and that the bank thus ensures its claims, if it knows how much a man is connected to the house he lives in, it's hardly so easily he won't want to pay credit rates to keep him out of it. It's a special case of building housing. Of course the problem was alone when I took out a loan to the bank they asked me, you have to have a mortgage insurance, I asked for what, then the house. Well, if I had a house, then I wouldn't go build a house. So it's usually your mechanisms so that a man can even put a mortgage on his parents' house or on one of your relatives, so he's even more attached to it. And good colleague Alexic says, banks are the ones who did the assessment and then they wash their hands. And maybe in that sense, and the executive law that's going to be here soon on the agenda, we have to think about it actually happening. We have here, I'm not going to use a hard term right now, but I'm sure there's an executive business because there are people who regularly buy at real estate auctions. And these people have extra profits. We don't know at this point whether we're working with banks or not, but it's certain that at that moment the banks are washing their hands and more of the assessment they did at the beginning, even though the law here in Article 19 is defined that the appraiser must have professional equipment or what needs to have, it's these authorized appraisers, but I don't think they're connected to the bank again, they're external bank associates, so it seems to me today. And I think that bank should have more responsibility, and then maybe in the article this might stand instead of the word "must." So this is what you say when, when a man can't pay the bank let him take the property and the matter is settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41782	Mr. Lalovec, do you want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, well-respected fellow. Just another little supplement on this, here when we get to the Executive Law we need to seriously talk about this, so now we have space. What I said to the banks has already been written off in their books, so they have no more expenses for it, the minister gave them the last time the Law on profit tax changes, gave them a tax relief and told them if he didn't go to the lawsuits, etc. that they have it as a tax recognised. And I'm sorry that the state on that side was fair that in this way we now have opportunities because they've already written it off, they have a tax relief that they finally get these... away from the citizens that extra is nothing but extra income for them. And what's a little bit of a concern is that they started seeing and that they were mass selling those claims. Now that's the problem. It wouldn't be a problem if they'd written it off so they'd solved it with the citizens, but the problem is if they sold it, and we see according to the CNB reports they sold 6 billion of their claims last year, they sold it to various agencies that are used for payment, and that's the problem now if you come to the one who's now transferred that part of the search to the one that comes to you from the start is asking for that re-demand to you. And we think that we should see in which way perhaps in the Executive Law for all those who have done where they got a relief on that part, and it seems to me that there's a very clear and written that they have to write it off,... they should send the CNB and see if they wrote it off or they sold it because they would definitely ask the CNB to give us a report on what it was doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41784	Thank you very much. She asked for Mrs. Dragica Roscic's word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club has the right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41785	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law on residential consumer lending. So, after the financial crisis, not only in Croatia, but all of Europe is growing one mistrust in financial institutions. And we are simply aware that a higher level of education is needed to avoid the harmful consequences we have seen in the past period. This is where we introduce the best practice defined by the directive that we, or our representatives, have brought to the European Parliament in 2014. Before us today, the law is one in a series of laws that will try to eliminate all these ambiguities and bad situations that we have faced over the past period. In fact, 59% of EU citizens find it difficult to understand all the rules relating to mortgage loans. Even 38% of EU citizens find it difficult to compare these offers so it is really important that between all these irregularities and the unfortunate situations they have seen in practice means housing lending. Residential lending in the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2016, so citizens were in charge of around 48 billion kuna and a questionable payment was made at the end of 2016 3.6 billion kuna. So far, as we have already mentioned, and with the 4 laws, the area of housing lending has been arranged, but it takes one special law that we still have to deal with this problem specifically. I would separate it if this law meant there were about 8 areas of improvement and would briefly lead them here to get to know our citizens better as soon as possible. Because as we know by this law, we don't solve those problems that have arisen in the past. If we spread a lot of debate about them, of course, it's good to point out but somehow it's going to lose that thread that we can improve in this law. This law has been evaluated by some members of the opposition with good grades but I think we can give a much higher grade than just good because there are really good suggestions. It means that of these parts, i.e. improvements in the allocation, an improvement in the purpose of increasing consumer information. This is where a European standardised information form is introduced. This can be said that there is also a clue to that information form that we talked about at the 3rd month when the first reading of the Bank Comparability Comparability Law came on the agenda. So the same pattern is introduced here that we can easily compare these loan offers and introduce two deadlines. The one of 15 days when we have a binding offer, so it must not be valid for less than 15 days so that we can compare all these loan offers. And this pattern will help us compare it more easily. Also, within 14 days of the conclusion of the contract, we can give up without credit compensation if we establish any other situations or do a little more research. We also have improvements in the calculation of effective interest rates and new fees are prohibited. It is very important to say that, in the case of an effective interest rate, it is a uniform calculation at EU level, in different terms at the beginning and during the duration of the credit. There are also improvements in consumer protection in foreign currency lending. We know it's been a lot of trouble in the past. Thus, at any point, credit conversion must be made possible, no compensation must be charged to the consumer. Moreover, I would point out improvements in early repayment of credit when this fee is reduced from now on by almost 50% and 0.5 of the remaining principal amount, respectively. We also have an improvement in the process of assessing the consumer's creditworthiness. It is clearly emphasized here that, so we need to assess whether the potential credit user is able to repay that loan. We don't need to assess what kind of real estate he has, and if he has a higher value of real estate, then it's easier and he gets a loan. So we just have to see if he's able to repay the loan he's taking. The level of expertise and knowledge of staff, credit institutions and credit intermediaries shall be defined. We've been saying a lot here that the credit user is economically weaker than credits, mostly professionally and similarly, but it definitely doesn't mean that at all times he has more knowledge, sometimes less knowledge than employees who offer credit. Sometimes workers who have less knowledge consciously push people into loans and think that increasing the level of knowledge and expertise of credit-providing people and who directly work with potential users will lead to even greater responsibility when giving credit and will improve this whole relationship. It is also necessary to improve the regulation of credit intermediaries here, and I would also end up pointing out the improvement of consumer protection in the event of difficulties in paying commitments and what we mentioned today is very important this walk away clause. So he wants to point out here that for our generations tomorrow in the use of credit will be much easier than it has been for previous credit users. We mentioned last week that when co-financed housing, especially young people first face this whole process, and all things are unknown to them. Such a law will indeed help to eliminate future difficulties especially in the payment of loans but it is only one in a series of these laws that this ministry or government is proposing this year, I mentioned, we already had in the third month the first reading of this Law on Comparability of Refunds, but the next days and tomorrow on the Committee are some laws that can and can remove some of the negative consequences that have already been before us. So here's how I welcome this bill, the HDZ Club will support it, this is the first reading. I can see that there are not many individual debates, I hope, and I believe that it is because the law is good but we have enough time to have any practical things and anything else we can do to improve we have time really to propose it to the amendments and to get it into the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41786	Thank you very much, colleague Rostice. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Zdravko Maric asked for the word of Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Goran Aleksic has asked for a replica, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41787	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Roscic, you said there was an increase in mistrust in the work of banks, of course it grew because of their illegal behaviour. We have a powerful collective court ruling in Croatia where it is clear that banks have negotiated unfair contractual provisions. This is unequivocally, the process has not yet been completed, and it is still possible for the Supreme Court to reach a verdict that the Swiss franc currency clause was also negotiated in an illegal manner, in an unfair manner. Because the Constitutional Court found that the Supreme Court did not make a good decision, that it must repeat its decision. That's why you don't believe in bank work. The main reason is that they behave illegally, but why are they acting illegally? Because we all let them do it together. Headed by the CNB. The CNB has long resisted claims that banks are operating illegally, as they have waited as long as banks to pass a court ruling. On the CNB's pages, up to a final court verdict, it said clearly and loudly that banks are allowed to unilaterally change the interest rate on their own. Only after a final court ruling has the CNB removed that notice from its website. It's a sad behavior of the CNB in that sense. You say knowledge. Knowledge is very important in raising credit, it is. However, there is something called mandatory information. Banks are obliged to inform debtors of all conditions of a specific loan. So a man doesn't have to be particularly financially written, but he has to be informed about everything and it's just banking spin that financial literacy is the reason why people have been taking loans and getting into trouble. No, the main reason is that banks haven't informed citizens enough about all the risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41788	Thank you, too. In the end now finally Mr. Maric on behalf of the promoter. Mrs. Rostice's reply, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41789	My colleague Alexic, thank you. So one minimum is that banks don't do business illegally, but it won't tell me here in the Parliament, but it's important that now the future proposals of the law, the more we define that no manipulation can happen at all, let alone illegal business. So, prescribing forms of comparableity for forms that can compare offers for loans, giving some prescribed minimum deadlines is what we can influence to further strengthen the laws that banks have to comply with, and of course the illegality of bank operations will be determined by some other processes that are not in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41790	Excuse me, colleague Roscic, I haven't seen you. Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's the end, final word. I hope that the esteemed representative Alexic will not mind if I use part of the rhetoric that he started his address, so I use a little student-student dictionary. A few months ago in the Croatian Parliament, I earned an excellent rating from Professor Beljak from accounting, as I recall, here the 3+ rating, for this first bill, first reading, in my nature and nature is to answer for a higher grade, so here is the basis of your comments, I will now give a few reviews because some of these comments that you have said, we have already installed into the law. The first point that you have apostrophe, thus limiting only to euro loans or kuna loans. We discussed the subject in detail and discussed it internally, even made one communication with other Member States, we received some fifteen agreements, and only in two countries, Poland and Hungary saw such an option as you suggested. With Hungary pulling that original option after she got it, we want to tell the pack, or whatever it is from the European Commission or the European Central Bank. However, Poland went further with the decision, but it is only necessary to see how and how the European Central Bank, the European Commission, will react to this. However, at the same time, it should be said, of course, that all other countries have proposed exactly the same provision as we propose in this part, with the fact that we can also say that we have one particular maneuvering space and that we are open to this in discussion and comments, that according to these other currencies, we can also say that we have a more restrictive way in terms of terms of approval. So, as you have also apostrophe, there are Croatian citizens who have certain income receipts, any pension in any third currency, according to them of course, this option must be and should be opened, but for other circumstances we can be partly and more restrictive. But in this way we avoid any criticism that Croatia is a country that restricts freedom of movement of capital. What was the case in those other examples? As regards the observation that the CNB is obliged to publish all fines, infringements and those types, I will only apostrophe Article 43(1): “Croatian National Bank publishes on its website the sentences of power decisions made in the infringement proceedings initiated by the Croatian National Bank as an authorised prosecutor and whose credit institution is a credit intermediary credit institution, the responsible person of the credit intermediary found guilty of the offence under this law. With the saying, the name of the body which made the decision and the number and date of the decision is published." Here I can say that we have already respected this. As regards the problem of incentive measures or bonuses in terms of total interest, that provision is already contained in Article 14(7), meaning ‘if applicable, the following essential ingredients’ and paragraph 7. ‘if applicable benefits affecting the total cost of the credit of the consumer’, i.e. Article 24(4), which states ‘if the credit institution offers to negotiate a variable rate, it is obliged to give a clear and unequivocally to the consumer elements referred to in the first paragraph of this Article, to warn him of any risks and variables and clearly and unequivocally to the Contract on a residential consumer credit, to agree on changing elements on the basis of which the variable interest rate is calculated, including the benefits affecting the total cost of credit to consumers’, as regards the observations relating to an even better warning and communication to consumers, as regards the risk of interest rates and currency clauses, and the provisions will be an integral part of that ESIS, the standardised European form, namely the first point on which I have spoken in turn. We can call them this equal anuity compared to variable meals. So, if you're looking through the whole law, here I'm going to briefly apostrophe Article 10(7) which, i.e. paragraph 2.(7) means wherever we talk about annuity we always say if the applicability is the amount of meals or annuities. So we're not just limiting to a fixed annuity which is, among other things, in the good part of the case, a practice today. And then we have a point that I'll definitely say that we have to think about, so you mentioned these methods, comfortable methods either English or French. Same as in conversion over this 20%, so the risk would go to a credit institution. Finally, point 7 of the free delivery of the payment plan also states very clearly Article 12(2), so the credit institution is obliged to the consumer without compensation and, at any time during the entire duration of the housing credit contract, to make the report available in the form of a payment plan. Here's about a short summary of your comments. The other comments we heard were on the trail of these quite detailed and concrete. But anyway, thank you all for the debate. We will also consider these comments from all the representatives and clubs further and, of course, until the second reading, we will see what we can possibly fit in. But here I am also being apostrophe to the presentation and the replica of the distinguished representative Zhagar who said among other things about the public debate, so in this public debate, which is public in nature, he participated in a whole series of institutions. But, among other things, not only that of the Croatian Association of Banks and the Croatian National Bank, but also Franak Association and all other interested public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41792	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, but you have two replicas. The first is Mr. Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41793	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I have just one more question so I can vote in favour of this law. It is mentioned in Article 8, I do not know what the general perception is. There was also criticism about the work of the bank staff. I personally didn't experience it that way, I didn't have any unpleasant experiences. The bank's staff according to my experiences was correct. I think they're even professionals. And it says here in Article 8 that staff, credit institutions must have an adequate level of knowledge. I get that. The level of knowledge can be checked, can be improved with education, seminars, there is lifelong learning. However, the second point is said to be an appropriate level of expertise. Now I don't know if it's a synonym, because a man who's an expert has to have knowledge. But one who has knowledge doesn't have to be professional. Is that about professional equipment or something? To make the question quite right? If it wasn't an accident that many employees wouldn't get fired at the bank? If the Croatian National Bank prescribes such conditions that they simply will not be able to meet because of the professional arrangement. You may not know the answer at this point, but you should certainly take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41794	Thank you. The minister will respond to both replicas together. Now it's Mr. Goran Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41795	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I thank you for your answers to my comments. And by doing that, you've raised this bill to 4 minus with a tendency to 4. If you accept this proposal for the euro and for those who have received in the second currency, if it enters the law it will already be 4 plus. And if you accept this obligation that is not prescribed, because you say that through the law a variable meal and equal annuity is being passed. But there is no obligation on the bank that it must offer one and the other to the debtor, and then leave the debtor to choose which way of payment he will take if he is creditworthy for a certain way of paying. So that's the only question of the debtor's creditworthiness. Of course we're not all creditworthy for variable meals, because we don't have that kind of income. But whoever's capable should get the chance to choose such a way of paying off because it's actually much cheaper for him, especially when it comes to long-term loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41796	Here until we're done at 5 plus you better answer the lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41797	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I'm going to give both of you a quick answer, and here's a response to the replica. As far as this expertise and knowledge is concerned, we have an annex to the three directives themselves, which prescribes these minimum requirements precisely in terms of knowledge and expertise. We are to implement these directives that speak of course and about the proper knowledge of credit products, rights, knowledge and understanding of property purchase procedures, the evaluation of insurance, the functioning of land books. But I would take the opportunity here, I know no matter what very often you can mention and officials of individual credit institutions. I don't think, of course, anyone should be tried if something else at some point had to be checked, but I think we all know that the moss and the vast majority are working on very professional and high-quality and good people who work there. And I think we should also direct certain commendable words to their account that it doesn't turn out that they just said something wrong or wrongly advised. So you will see it very closely in the directive itself. And finally, here I am pleased to see that recently there was also the end of the school year five from accounting, four from monetary-credit analysis and politics, I am not unhappy. Four point five, that's still a grade five. In my day I was released from high school, I don't know I want to be again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41798	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the terms, so Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41799	Proposal for a law on residential consumer credit, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 120. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on residential consumer lending is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I also find that this conclusion was reached by 118 votes for the way it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41800	And let's move on to - Proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the area of posting of workers, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Whether or not the promoter is Mrs Katarina Ivanković, State Secretary. You have some further reasons, you're already here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41801	Dear MPs and MPs, this draft law partially fulfils the obligation to take over in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 implementing the Directive on the deployment of workers in the framework of the provision of services. And amendments to the Regulation on administrative cooperation through the so-called the information system of the internal market, i.e. the colloquial name of the IMI Regulation, is coordinated with the Chapter of the Directive relating to the cross-border implementation of administrative sanctions and or fines. Full compliance with the Directive in question will be governed by the law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law. In this way, the necessary legal framework and common rules for mutual cooperation and mutual assistance of Member States are hereby established in the cross-border implementation of decisions on administrative fines in the area of posting of workers charged for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers or for non-compliance with administrative requirements and control measures. Cross-border posting of workers is an integral part of freedom to provide services, and the directive in question is part of a European legal framework aimed at protecting the rights of posted workers. The draft proposal for this law addresses the following issues. Content of the rules of procedure and principles of mutual cooperation and assistance of competent authorities in cross-border implementation, decision on administrative fines imposed on the party to the service provider in the Republic of Croatia and vice versa. A service provider established in the Republic of Croatia in one of the Member States for infringements of guaranteed rights of posted workers, i.e. in breach of certain rules relating to the posting of workers. Furthermore, this law regulates the scope and scope of administrative, international cooperation, competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia, forms of cooperation consisting of sending and receiving two types of requests and relevant documents. Furthermore, requests for the delivery of information to the service provider in the country of its business established on the fine imposed in another country and the payment request for such fines including the execution of the payment of fines in the country of establishment, the provider of services and the rules on handling them. The minimum content of the requirements to be lodged on the basis of the established and uniform and standardised forms and on the basis of which the decision is implemented and the penalty is charged in favour of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. And it's actually one of the essential elements of this law. The mandatory means of cooperation and exchange of requests and other information and documents shall be governed by this law through the IMI system, i.e. the internal market information system, in the manner and by the rules of the electronic system. The established single system of cooperation will allow conditions for more effective punishment of any abuse and circumvention of existing rules in the field of workers' rest, better respect for them, thus achieving higher, more uniform and comparable level of protection of the rights of posted workers in the EU, and indirectly ensure fairer conditions for a fair competition on the internal market. This law was in me to say extensively. It has also been addressed by representatives of the trade union and representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, discussed on the Economic Social Council, all in accordance with our positive regulations, and also on parliamentary committees where we have all received support and support for the adoption of this law, we propose that you agree with the law and refer it further to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41802	Thank you. We have two replicas, Mr. Ante Babic's first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41803	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you said in the introduction that there are common rules for international co-operation. Perhaps it should be stressed that actually during the posting of workers, the employer is obliged to fill certain things with workers from providing services, overtime, its protection. But it should also be pointed out, which was not pointed out, that the worker in this case, that when there are more favourable conditions in the country, can accept these terms. Of course, this Directive 96 has also been transposed into the Foreign Law, as I recall, and the worker is in fact guaranteeing a minimum protection of their rights, which must necessarily be respected by employers. And what you might want to say. In fact, more effective conditions should be allowed for punishing employers, for in fact, that is the only way that workers will probably, or we will be more credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41804	Thank you very much. The State Secretary decided to respond to both the replicas and the debates during the closing statement, so I give my word to Mr Davor Vlaovic for another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41805	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, of course, it is good that the Republic of Croatia is implementing this law in its legislation with a view to protecting workers' rights, and what is mine, I would like to ask a question. You said the unions gave their positive opinion on this law. It remains unclear why they gave a positive opinion, and I don't think it's right for them to write it like this. 13. that the body that received the request would refuse to execute it, if the execution required for payment would cause significant difficulties, i.e. if the costs of the collection were high. I also think my opinion and the HSS Club that the worker must always have his right, especially if the court has ruled in his favour to enable him to charge his auction, and that if the state body cannot, for these reasons, charge him, we need to sort differently how to get his rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41806	Thank you, too. The Committees of the Two Committees are discussing this law by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. Does anyone want to take a word for the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first reported by Mr Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41807	Thank you very much, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. We've already been discussing this law, and that's one of the problems we're going to have permanently. We are taking the same steps as the European Commission to make it easier for the posted workers to do their daily work. The practice of this system has taken on a new dimension, as the EU itself has spread especially since 2004 as Romania enters, Bulgaria is in 2007, so here we are, when we entered 2013 we see that the number of workers coming from those countries, sent by their service companies is constantly growing. So here's some information that in 2007, there were about 600,000 posted workers, now that's already 2015, the data on two million has increased. This only says that employers who have more developed countries can simply make a lot more money if they hire companies that come from less developed countries, but with one goal, and that these workers in the conditions they work in a Western EU country have the salaries of Eastern European countries from which they originate. I think it's clear to everyone and logic and why the intensity of these laws relating to posted workers and the punishment of irresponsible employers intends to put an end to it. What we as politicians should actually be wondering what we are accomplishing with all of our activities that we have and in the Parliament where we will try to improve something, which is that we should change the paradigm of leaving people from Croatia. Our parents or grandparents who went away in the 1960s went abroad to solve a difficult financial situation they had to earn some funds to return to Croatia and continue living here. What we now have at present, and that our workers are leaving but no longer with the intention of returning, but are leaving with the intention of permanent settlement in those countries. But Western European countries' policy changed, before they looked for those workers who would be at a certain point temporary means the gaster as the Germans said they would temporarily come there, make some progress and go away. It was one policy. But now we see that they have changed their attitude towards it, they want these people to come as workers and as new consumers. It becomes countries that strengthen their national economy precisely at the expense of people who not only came to transfer their knowledge there or their work but to become new consumers and economies of their scope are growing, and here we are facing the consequences that are devastating where the growing number of people who live here, the growing number of entrepreneurs, the growing number of entrepreneurial activities, the growing number of jobs. We're going in. I'm going to say circulatory not labour economy that loses its substance. However, when our workers go there again, we are making some income, but these people who are directed need to exercise certain rights, primarily minimum wage rights, on acceptable early hours, on their annual vacations, on health standards that are common and that is the problem of the addressed workers that we need to discuss. However, if we go back to this House last year, here is today's President of the Parliament, and then the president of the Committee on European Affairs actually broke down the directive, I will do a little quoting from where it is said if a worker from Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia goes to work in Germany then the salary of that worker should be equal to the salary of a German worker and that is said ok, but then the competitiveness of Croatian companies would be violated. So with such workers, we are no longer competitive. Therefore, we do not build on this is the competitiveness of our company to offer a better quality of service, to offer a better product than we send our workers there just because they are cheaper. And then cases happen to us if someone followed where they went to an industry that works parts for the car industry and hot drains there went to polish how hard the job is, I'm now asking what and how much it contributes to us, what in our economy has brought it? So we send people who suffer there, do the most difficult jobs and what quality we get. For four years, EU membership has shown that we have quite a devastating experience where we are increasingly increasing the trade deficit that we cannot compensate for. And instead of using the benefits of this multi-million-dollar market, then we are getting more and more into the problem where we move to that market, meaning that our position is not domicile to do new jobs than our workers do, and we see that our employers are leaving Croatia slowly and leaving. What is about going to work where we go to protect ourselves, and right through this law that is here, is one rule, that companies that are quality in Croatia who care about their workers here who guarantee their right, primarily except for the right to work and the right to compensation, that they also show the same face abroad and that they are good employers. But the fact is that the growing number of companies that are speculant, who quickly collect our workers who take them there. So here's even from Germany once to get a journalist to exploit workers in European countries where wages are low today is a good business model that rarely entails legal consequences. The European Commission has also recognised this, through the directive, it wants to put an end to this, and in particular we have the code, we have already had a discussion recently with employment agencies, all of the problems we have here in Croatia, when it is transferred to the outside becoming even bigger and even more difficult. And that's why the support of both this law and the side of the MOST club is unique. So we have to put an end to it, and we can no longer have someone pick up practically on the street and say here we go, but it's all ready, there waiting for a job for people to sign a paper that may be just the back page that they haven't even had a chance to read and that people like that come back to us after a few months unhappy, unhappy with the rule of law and ours, and the one they went to where they couldn't collect their work, where they were denied their labour rights, where they were cheated. Therefore, there is much we can do on these posted workers. And if we as a state stand behind workers where we can guarantee them the rights that stem from what they expected, one day we will be ready and invite these workers to return to Croatia that they can here in some other circumstances that are here hope that all of our joint work will contribute better to development and that they know that they will have conditions, what they wanted to have in some Western European country. Therefore, with our support, I will complete this exhibition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41808	Thank you, Mr. Panenic. Mr. Ivica Misic asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41809	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Panenic, I listened carefully to your exposure and the clear thing that our workers are going out for no money, to work for a thousand and a half euros or something less, someone a little bit more. But what do we give them? What have we been doing these 25 years, I'm an entrepreneur too, what have we done in 25 years to give them conditions for nice work? We produced, you just said some companies, fictional companies that didn't pay taxes to this society and to this state, which we all allowed, in the end, whoever's been dealing with politics these 25 years is allowed these workers to be expended and that in some way these companies don't pay liabilities and taxes and we know that 40 billion to 50 are not paid taxes. What happened? Nothing. We can talk here every day about how we will help workers, no, how to help entrepreneurs to give good wages, how to take down the burden on entrepreneurs and how to give them the will to invest and the will to work, that's the question. This is just the populism that we're all talking about, we're gonna give, we're gonna get some laws, we're gonna do this. Let's ask the laws, and all these governments that have passed so far, I hope this government is going to do something different now, to simply force every firm, every one of them, there's no privileged firm of anyone to be good with, to pay obligations and taxes, and to take down any costs to companies that just can't take it anymore, and normally that's what's going on. And what they're leaving, it's natural because we didn't make them a prerequisite to live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41810	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic asked for answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41811	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Misic, I think we can all agree that in the last 20 and several years of our independence, we have actually systematically killed hope, primarily for entrepreneurs, and I admire those who today act and fight on our market and try all these disadvantages that we consciously and unconsciously create to survive. I hope that the moment will happen with us that politics will unambiguously move away from the economy, that we don't get examples like a company that doesn't have a single employee, that registers to concessions, which is, here we have seen how much this problem creates and what all comes back to us as a boomerang creates a mistrust that politics can only contribute to the economy and not be all the time one of the coordinators who tries to milk the businessmen and entrepreneurs and seek the opportunity to collect some of their individual intentions. I hope here there will be strength both in this government and in any of the following that we will actually take a clear position where the entrepreneur we support all the time. If we said so, here's what you mentioned, a reduction in the obligation to issue from non-taxation so-called. parafiscal that we'll be in it consistent. That we are not in a situation where on the one hand we have a whole programme that will reduce giving and on the other hand here is that Minister Tolusic at the Ministry of Agriculture announces the introduction of a membership fee for the agricultural chamber. I don't think we're consistent with that, then. Instead of going systematic reduction, we always have an excuse to introduce a new charge. I'd be even inclined to 'let's see two for one first, we've got a lot of opportunities. So let's cancel twice as much giving if we're going to create one new one. So maybe in time, we'd be able to bring in those givings that are necessary to be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41812	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club of Independent Representatives and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41813	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we had an opportunity here to discuss a lot of laws that bear the label P.Z.E., all of them in an emergency procedure, and this one could go freely as far as his effects are concerned. But if we want to have an understanding of this problem then it's good that it's in two readings. Then I'm going to ask the secretary of state for the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to be a little bit specific about the life of this law. Because here we are talking about something that we don't generally know, based on these nice professional words, you can tell me if you recognize a 25-year-old company from Croatia that has been operating neatly for 25 years, according to the law, instructs workers, every two years withdraws them to their workshop in Croatia, and then, after a year, they can be referred back to the EU Member State and that respects all these standards especially those of the '96 European Directive. We don't have those examples of life, and the law is for our citizens. The law is for our citizens. Do we have what my colleague Misic said, do we have those employers who trade in labor? They're trading in labor. They started a company, have no production, find jobs and direct 20, 30 workers of metal profession, construction professions in Italy, Germany, Austria. We do, we do. Do we have a video of them paying their workers? Until '96. they could pay their workers with minimum salary of the Republic of Croatia, and normal contributions. Since '96, or since '96. There was a change in Croatia, they had to pay increased contributions, 20% higher health and pension contributions, minimum wage plus increased contributions. And since the implementation of the '96 directive, they must pay minimum wage if they go to Italy, the Republic of Italy, if they go to Austria, the minimum salary of the Republic of Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, etc. So the '96 directive has already adopted something, a certain change in terms of preventing labour sales, exploiting workers. But this other one is going harder. The same salary is at the head of the EU for the same work. This is an attempt by this new Directive of 2014 so-called the Implementing Directive. But it's going a lot harder. Between France and Germany, it works, there is no travel expenses, there is no housing, there are no famous diaries that Croatia has in its system, and then maybe it works with them, when sending workers from one company to work in another country. It doesn't really work for us. We have a situation here, like in construction. High profits and low wages. So, if someone directs a worker to Italy, for example, In the shipyard, he'll hit the job, the employer will hit the job somewhere in about 220 hours, hours done, hit somewhere between 5500 and 6000 euros. That's how much that worker's gross price is going to hit. He will pay him 1,000 euros here, so as much as there is minimum wage in Italy, with all contributions and he is clean. According to the directive, he's clean. What's the salary for the workers? The worker will receive in 30 days or a diary or half a living room. The journal is for Italy 90. It's the admission of workers but it's gone, it's his profit, but there's no salary, there's no salary, there's no taxes, no contributions, no pensions, no health care. And of course, he'll pay that employer there and the apartment and the food and the transportation there and back, and he'll be left with it, maybe 1000 euros per employee, which is not a small profit for one employer, who may have an office, a secretary and a ficus, it's not a very small profit, times so many months, it's a pile. And we've got this man retired, he's had a solid income his whole life, but the basics of retirement and retirement are at a level that's bigger than the lowest pension. We're trying to shed light on this whole problem. We have the president of the HUP who is also director of TECHNOMONT d.d., so they as a small shipyard because they had sent workers to German and Dutch shipyards and that the rest of the money remained in office of the company, they regularly paid all the obligations to Croatia, so it is the only practical shipyard that has not received any subsidy, never one day, in 25 years of business. They used this model for the company's survival, so it's not this case where there are 1,000 euros left to one employer per employee. So we have examples but we need to talk to them. I don't know what the problem is with our employers. All I know is that the unions were against this because they're looking a little longer and they want these workers not only to have a big profit but also to have a big salary in terms of tomorrow's pension because the pension comes at the end of the road when someone can no longer make extra money to improve their financial situation. In order to implement what is written here, which is extremely correct, this should be reported by the damaged party. It is necessary to report that worker in the country where it is given, not in the country of business, but in the country where the service is given, where our worker is sent to work, to report it there, to raise the procedure and to make the payment here. And you know when he'll do that? He's got to get a hell of a mess. He must make a terrible mistake for this employer to report him. As long as that worker has a solid income despite his low salary, despite his departure on vacation having 2,000 kuna salaries because there are no living quarters, there's nothing else that he's got while he's abroad, this will only happen when that worker reports him. And he will not report it under these conditions, because these are significantly better conditions than the salary he works for in Croatia. Therefore, this is in any case an excellent intention and this should be supported as the implementation of a very good, humane initiative that is very solid among workers in terms of impacting dumped labour prices. So it should be accepted anyway. But I think we could, if it were a good opportunity for another reading to still discuss, to see all those positions where we are. The other thing we have is this matter, so we have workers coming to work in Croatia, where even the EU country doesn't have to be, can be an employer from Serbia who directs employers from Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania to work in Croatia. So then our minimum wage with our obligations, our vacation rights, health care, etc. must be applied to them. But it's not the subject of this law. We have this matter in the Foreign Law. And we basically have to do some reorganization here. Either we're going to regulate this situation of forward workers from us outside or elsewhere by law or we're going to discuss two laws in the long run. However, it is an objective problem. And just so we don't have a dilemma here. This is not about migrants, not about daily, not about weeks, people who work across borders as individuals. This is about posted legal workers. This is about posted workers, for example from one branch in Croatia, but the employer has a business establishment here, but has a branch perhaps in Austria or Romania. And this is about when the agency asked for workers to be sent to a country that wasn't a country of business created by an employer. So these three cases here we're looking at. And therefore, I would like to say that the Club of Independent Representatives and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will surely support this law in its first reading. Anyway, we're interested in taking a bigger picture of this problem for all of us because I don't like to be and raise my hand for something that, these are beautiful words in the law, but they're not lifelike. They do not tell us what are the examples, where it is applicable, and how it all works. Here I have made a little effort to pass on some of the things from my previous experience because that's how it worked. Because until '95. The real profit was working in Italian shipyards and was paid very well by that employer who sold practically labor there. Afterwards, all of this is less attractive, but it is still an attractive reference to workers and has a suitable income and employers are likely to rebel over the loss of earnings. So once again, this is worth supporting, this is a principle question of equal pay and equal rights for equal work, even though we all know it's possible. I repeat again between Germany and France, where it is practically compatible with daily migration and there are no such costs and there are no these expectations of workers on high earnings and small wages like ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41814	Thank you, too. Mr. Marko Vesligaj asked for a word on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club has the right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41815	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. Here is another law that actually aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the EU and the acquis of the EU. As we know, freedom to provide services, free movement of workers and business freedoms are fundamental principles of the internal market in the EU and are actually incorporated into the EU's operating contract. Therefore, the freedom of business and the freedom to provide services, as I have said, is also established by the EU's operating agreement and supported by the EU court's practice, guarantees primarily the mobility of businesses and experts within the EU. So it's about the very foundations of the EU, free flow of goods, services, capital, people. Unfortunately, people are always somehow in our last place, and we know that they're the only ones who create extra value. We should have implemented this law a long time ago, not that we had received certain packages from the EU. So this Directive on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services has been in force as already mentioned here since '96. It is also one of the main EU legal acts relating to the protection of the rights of posted workers. Subject Directives addressed to workers guarantee a minimum protection of their rights, which must necessarily be respected, i.e. they must be provided by their employers during the time they are referred to them in another country, EU member or European Economic Area. Of course that's okay, it's not exactly right that we always have to be conditioned by others, because the rights of workers, as has been said here on several occasions, should not be a matter of some kind of political color, but rather a true civilization value. I'm not going to be too long, I think this is all already said, the law is written in one, of course, language that maybe even ordinary workers won't be understood at all, but I'll say in front of the SDP Club that we will support this law, of course, because it goes partly to protect the outcasts. I believe that they will truly experience in practice and that it will benefit all those prominent workers who work across the EU and actually live in Croatia and create their future here. I am glad that here it is achieved and a certain consensus by the unions, by employers, I know that there have been certain objections, they were afraid that they would be threatened with competitiveness, but I think that if our people work in Europe on equal jobs, as the Germans do, the French, the Spanish, then for this work, of course, they should be paid the same as the country of these countries that I have listed, and we should encourage competitiveness in other ways. I'll say more, even if this isn't the subject, but here as soon as we mention the word abroad, working abroad, we immediately remember, of course, our youngsters, going away, it was often a theme here in the Parliament, and here is the ruling when the opposition has often pointed out about this one wave of emigration, unfortunately it hasn't stopped 100 thousand young people, or not just young people, but people have left the Republic over the past 1 year, and we still don't have concrete measures to stop it. Here's the end, once again, the SDP Representatives Club will support this first-reading law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41816	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Marko Simic, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41817	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs, today before us the draft Act on cross-border implementation of monetary penalty decisions in the area of posting of workers, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has referred to in the parliamentary procedure. The freedom to provide services to free movement of workers and business freedoms are fundamental principles of the internal market on the EU as such contained in the EU's operating contract. This means that businesses established in the EU, in other Member States, are free to provide services and to provide services, to send their workers to work for a certain time on the territory of another EU Member State. By removing barriers to the free provision of services based on fair competition with insurance, the appropriate level of protection, workers' rights is a lasting goal for the EU. Before an analysis of the legal proposal itself, it is important to note any legal acts that precede the adoption and development of such a legislative proposal. First, it is important to mention and mention Directive 71/1996 on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services, which is one of the fundamental legal acts of the EU, relating to the protection of the rights of posted workers. I remind you that it has been transferred to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the Foreign Law, Art. 86 to 89. In practice, for the sake of difficulty in controlling and controlling the application, these guaranteed rights of posted workers are often not respected, and there have been frequent different occurrences of abuse and circumvention of applicable rights. In order to address the problem of the application of Directive 96’, and more effective implementation of the basic rules governing the reference of workers, the 2014 Directive was adopted on the implementation of the aforementioned 96' Directive with the amendment of Regulation 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System, which also partially aligns the proposal for this law. The remaining part of the obligations under the Implementing Directive will be adopted in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigning Law. It is important to stress that this draft law establishes the necessary legal framework, i.e. common rules for mutual cooperation, the mutual assistance of Member States in the cross-border implementation of decisions on administrative fines or other administrative sanctions imposed on the provider of basic establishment services in the EU Member State or in the European Economic Area for the implementation of guaranteed rights of posted workers or in breach of other rules, administrative requirements or control measures during the reference period to be respected by the service provider in accordance with the provisions of Direct 96 and Directly of 2014, and in accordance with the relevant regulations which are transposed from the Directive into national legislation. In fact, this bill regulates all the issues that are governed by such a special law. We can briefly list them, these are the content, rules, procedure and principle of mutual cooperation and assist Member States' competent authorities in the cross-border implementation of decisions in administrative fines and other administrative financial penalties which cannot lead to a case before a court of law really competent for criminal matters imposed in an EU Member State or European economic space, providers of services established in another Member State for infringements of the rights of posted workers, or infringement of rules concerning the posting of workers laid down in national legislation in accordance with the '96 Directive. and the 2014 Directive. This draft law regulates the scope and scope of cooperation in such a way that the draft law applies to cross-border implementation of decisions on monetary or other administrative and financial sanctions which have been imposed by the competent authority or confirmed by the administrative body or the court of the EU Member State or of the European Economic Area by the provider of commercial establishment services in one Member State for infringement of the rights of posted workers or infringements of rules on the posting of workers established by specific regulations which have already been transposed in the legal order of the Member State referred to in the '96 and the 2014 Directive. This legislative proposal provides that fines and other sanctions are excluded from the scope of the application on the basis of decisions made in criminal, criminal, civil and commercial matters, to which some of the other specific rules apply. The competent authority for the international collision or sending and receiving of two types of requests, the request for the delivery of the notice of fines to the service provider, and the request for payment of fines, has also been arranged. The minimum content of the requirements relating to such simple and uniform and standardised forms shall also be prescribed. The form of the application for payment of a fine which, with the decision of the authority of the State applying for a fine, which is considered to be a fundamental executive document, constitutes an executive correction and a basis for the implementation of the payment of a penalty to the provider of business-based services in the Republic of Croatia for the benefit of the State budget. The reasons for the refusal of the ground for termination of proceedings are also governed by this draft law. Furthermore, this proposal also lays down jurisdiction in disputes concerning the occurrence of claims, payment obligations or monetary penalty decisions, and has jurisdiction over the authorities of the requesting State. For disputes on the validity of the notification of a decision delivered by the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia and the measures implemented pursuant to this Act, the jurisdiction shall be in the court or courts of the Republic of Croatia. The principle of mutual assistance, trust and recognition of requests are the basis for the cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States in acting on request. As previously mentioned, mutual assistance and administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States are implemented through the internal market information system of the reduced IMI. The requirements shall be considered and exchanged by electronic means in accordance with the rules of the electronic information system for these unique patterns. Finally, it is important to stress that the recognised request by the Member State referred to in Article 6 of the Law will be handled in the same way as the decision on fines taken by the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia. This established single system of cooperation will allow conditions for more effective punishment for any abuse and bypassing existing rules in the field of workers' posting, better respect for them, thus achieving higher, more uniform and comparable level of protection of posted workers in the EU and indirectly ensuring fairer conditions for a fair competition on the internal market. Furthermore, in this way we raise legal certainty and trust in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of opening new opportunities in the direction of making it easier to penalise and carry financial sanctions and bearing the consequences of violating the provisions of those Directives, which in many ways raises confidence in the quality of the service provider within the meaning of this law. It is important to say that this legislative proposal was discussed by two committees, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives at their meetings where they accepted and supported such a proposal for a law in the first reading. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill in its first reading and will refer it to a second reading where the authorised proposer will be able to contribute to the creation of a better legislative solution to its amendments and proposals through the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41818	Thank you very much. Ms Katarina Ivanković-Princević, the State Secretary, has the right to speak on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41819	... to answer some questions then and finally close the debate on this bill. [[Specially enabled.]] So Mr Vlaovic referred the question, when and in what cases Article 13 was rejected. It is important to keep in mind that this is a matter of administrative penalties here, so these are not some claim of workers or any other segment, these are administrative penalties imposed by the competent authorities in the country where the workers are sent to work. So it could be their work inspection, tax, financial or any other inspection in connection with the work being carried out. Our request authority, our financial agency, will reject this request unless it has all the elements that are contained in the regulation, saidly prescribed in that IMI system that I was saying that we are harmonising with it. So all of those elements, if they are not mentioned, will then be rejected or clarification will be sought and the country is obliged to provide clarification within a specified time limit. If we would like to accept this very simply, for example, the situation for our construction company to get a job for example in Germany, which is the most common case, there comes their work inspection or some other, very rarely come to the initiative of the worker inspection although it exists as in the Republic of Croatia if another country instructs the worker can happen to the inspection react. So they issue a certain penalty and that penalty goes towards the charge, according to our body in charge, or the ministry that lowers it to the paying agency de facto, who then collects the fine from our employer. And if all those preconditions in the regulation are met, then there is a payment of the fine that goes directly to the Croatian budget in our state budget. I think this may be the clearest and simplest example of how to approach or what this law is about. It is important to keep in mind that this is a matter of administrative punishment, that it is a matter of procedural nature, not only of the Republic of Croatia that is facing this issue but of de facto meeting all other EU countries. What has been pointed out here several times and although it is not the subject of the directive of 96 or of the original directive as we call it coloquial and it will come very quickly to the debate in part and when the amendment of the Law on Foreigners, in particular, I would say, perhaps within a year or two, it is a matter of equal salaries or equal wages for equal work in different EU countries, which some of you know and may be familiar with, at present, with the European Commission's debate on a new directive on posted workers where you are trying to define yourself, means you now by a '96 regulation. you have defined that you must provide people with minimum wage plus some other giving, for example, overtime, where this is and in which countries is arranged. It's arranged somewhere by law, some kind of collective contract somewhere. Basic contracts, but it means there's a prescription. The '96 regulation, and then, of course, the 2014 implementation, did not regulate the issue of equal pay. There was a big debate last week, a big debate on the epic council held in Luxembourg on this particular issue. The ratio is that two-thirds of the EU countries are actually opposed to this way of resolving, while part of it is being advocated but it will certainly be subject to broad, primarily political platforms and political debates, generally labour prices across the EU. Here, we as the promoters are just one more piece of information, Mr. Hrelja you said that the posted workers can be a certain period, by a truly original regulation that is 24 months, at most 24 months, but also the Croatian and EU average is actually to refer to 3 months. And there's that trap, and when it's three months, if it's punished, then until he gets back into the country, when the penalties actually get there, he doesn't come, there's no charge. This is why the European Union amended this segment in 2014 and regulated the way in which payments are actually made in the original country. So now, whether someone is 24 hours old and caught in a crime or two years old, they'll be charged a fine and enter the state budget of that country from which the worker originates. We look forward to this consensus as the promoters, we hope that on our other issues it will be similar or equal and thank you in fact for accepting and for here we refer this law to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41820	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, which means more or less Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41821	Proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the field of posting of workers, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on cross-border implementation of decisions on fines in the field of posting of workers is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous to 118 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41822	Last item of the agenda today: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 132; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure, as we had already said before in accordance with Article 204. The Registrar shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of this debate, today as referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. First I give my word to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to Mr Kristian Turkalj for the opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41823	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Mutual Protection of Classified Data, with the final proposal for a Law. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms the contracts between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified data, and in order to make its provisions in accordance with Article 140 thereof an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Poland. The Government of the Republic of Croatia signed this contract on 06 October 2016 in Warsaw, the said contract creates a legal framework and provides for rules of mutual protection for classified data in relation to RR and the Republic of Poland relating to future classified cooperation contracts which contain or include classified data. A legal framework shall also be created to ensure the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, establishing the same meaning of the degree of protection of obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data shall be determined by the competent authorities for the implementation of this contract, the transmission mechanisms of classified data, as well as the handling of classified data. This Treaty shall contain specific provisions on classified contracts, a regulated way of reaching visits, a course of action in the event of a security breach, as well as a matter of costs relating to the application of this Treaty. The implementation of this law does not require any additional financial resources and, in accordance with this nature, the validation of international contracts and formally expressing its will to become an obligation by international contract, as well as the fact that, in the rule of international contracts, the text of the international contract cannot be changed and complemented, we propose that this bill be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41824	Thank you, Mr. Turkalj. We have two clubs for now, Mr. Josko Klisovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He also welcomes a fellow Turkish secretary of state and I would like to say that the SDP club will support the ratification of this contract or the proposal for a law for the simple reason why we know that a regulated state must have a regulated system of exchange of classified data with its partners with other countries with whom it is common that it wants to achieve security for itself and its citizens. I've pointed out several times from this pay phone that no one today in the globalised world can provide independent complete security for their citizens. No one can provide complete security anyway, but a maximum possible degree of security. It does, of course, national investment in our military, the police, the entire state-run device that deals with protection, security, but we do it internationally. Joining various alliance partners such as the NATO Alliance or the EU, or we act bilaterally. When we do it internationally, we do it based on some contracts. This contract that you presented to us today, one such contract that is necessary for this cooperation to work. And cooperation must work and information must be exchanged but simply today the challenges of our security are such that they come from all sides. And they're no longer just within the framework of armed aggression or some organized violence by the state. This is primarily about asymmetric threats, threats that come through terrorism, which come through organised crime, through various forms of smuggling networks. In order to be able to reach such threats in cooperation with other countries, you simply have to exchange data and to exchange them, you have to treat them with a certain standard, if they are classified. Otherwise, you do even more damage than you'd do if you didn't share such information. Therefore, this contract is one necessary contract of the Republic of Croatia, such contracts should be concluded with all allies who work with us to ensure our security and with all neighbours and other countries that have the same political agenda as we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41826	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic. And finally Mr. Miroslav Tudjman on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will continue exactly what Mr. Klisovic finally said. We have signed such a contract with a number of countries and it needs to be signed with other countries. And that's not controversial. However, we should perhaps see if we can behave more rationally both as a state and as an EU member. In fact, this is one of the things to say, the type contracts we already signed with a number of countries, and more or less in those contracts, the only thing that changes is the institution on the other side of our National Security Council office. What am I saying? We already have standards and measures of behaviour in international and road transport and air transport, maritime transport, these telecommunications or teleoperate, so I see no reason why it could not be proposed if not elsewhere then, at least within the EU, one convention or protocol that would be typical and simply sign this convention that then applies to the member states that sign it. It seems to me that it would be a lot more rational, and this kind of sounds like it even if you went to look at yourself Semanticly, we're passing a contract law, I think. Which in itself is already a little illogical to say so, at least for those of us who are not lawyers. On the other hand, one question is raised which we have not opened and we know nothing about, which is the report of respect for these contracts when it comes to the exchange of these classified, the protection of classified data by either the receiving countries when we send it or by third countries. We don't have that insight today. We don't know to what extent these contracts are respected. It's already been said that it's very sensitive data, that without it we can't function. So it would be kind of convenient if not in this contract, or in this kind of contract somewhere else, to predict who will report and who to have insights into how to respect the exchanges of classified data, or to learn to what extent we function as a decent country in which these classified data are protected. The contract provides for a sending country or recipient to investigate this, however, the bigger problem is how, what happens is that there is a breakthrough of this data in third countries. Is there then these institutions are not able to explore it at least not in this way, so I think it's an open question that we need to take care of. A clear matter not in this contract itself but in other documents, other acts, and it seems to me that it is still not clearly defined and defined enough. In any case, the HDZ Club will also support this Treaty Act, and it would be good for the government to propose at least within the EU to adopt one standard protocol or convention that would then simplify and reduce this love for the adoption of a large number of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41828	Thank you, Dr. Tudjman. The promoter does not want to add anything at the end of the debate, so I am closing the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal for a national security strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and immediately afterwards with a proposal for a law on the Homeland Security System. Thank you very much. Goodbye and rest until tomorrow! Session interrupted at 1700 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-27-0.u41829	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 132. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified data, please vote. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, the law has been passed. Here. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
