ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38655	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we go with today's work. Dear representative Ljubica Lukačić called for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to request a break to discuss an international day of marking a disease called ALS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38657	Yes, go ahead. On behalf of the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38658	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I would like to request a break on the subject of the devastion of the protected area of the National Park of Plitvice Lakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38659	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP club, I request a 10 minute break on the topic of current issues in drug policies in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38661	Thank you. Dear Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38662	... I'm looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on immunity in the Assembly. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38663	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38664	Mr. Vice-President, I demand a 10 minute break on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia about relations, meaning foreign political relations with Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38665	Thank you. Anyone else? If not, thank you very much. Then I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Can we take our seats and calm down? Let's hear it from my colleague Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today is the first day of summer, June 21st and is the International Day for Amiotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, shorter ALS. It is a disease that is known to have a rapid, progressive process that affects motor cortex, brain stems, motor neurons of the spinal cord. Early symptoms of the disease are seen as weakness in the muscles, cramping or twitching in the arms and legs, problems with the lift of the feet occur, and permanent weakness may be felt in the legs and arms. In addition, a sick person may start to speak incomprehensibly, swallow difficult and feel cramps in his arms, shoulders, and tongue. As the disease progresses, the symptoms get worse, the disease loses its ability to walk, swallow, speak and breathe, which requires constant, artificial respiratory help at the terminal stage of the disease. The last stage of the disease characterizes total paralysis, but the brain of the disease continues to function normally. The disease is incurable, and 90% of the patients die within 6 years of diagnosis. Many sufferers are constantly feeling very, very uncomfortable pain, such as the one that the human organism feels when it is poured cold water, which is why several years ago a campaign was launched to increase awareness of ALS. All ALS sufferers are eager to expect the results of research conducted around the world. The campaign is being conducted to thank those who are making efforts to improve the quality of life for ALS patients together with the whole world. This year, in all languages, the word “lives” is toasted, which is an expression of goodwill, friendship, with a vision of a world without ALS and neuromuscular diseases. So here are colleagues and colleagues, today all the representatives on the bench have this card that I expect we'll all toast to this campaign and in the hope that research will show hope for the ALS sufferers because I said it was an incurable disease, but that maybe here's a cure, to make the disease's symptoms easier and to reduce mortality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38668	Thank you very much for this intervention, it is important to raise awareness of various diseases, especially those that really affect those who have suffered from them. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the distinguished representative Slaven Dobrovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38669	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will talk today about the devastation in the protected area of Plitvice Lakes National Park. Plitvice Lakes is our oldest National Park and truly represents an invaluable value for the Republic of Croatia. Thanks to the recognized, exceptional universal value of saddled barriers, it has been on UNESCO's world heritage list for almost 40 years, hence the natural heritage it so proudly stands on. What's going on today? There is a remarkable, observable devastation of space by over-building, concreteization, apartmentisation, urbanization, extremely sensitive hydrogeological area. It's tragic and absurd that all of this happens with the building permits issued. How is that possible? Well, the story is complicated, I'll bring a few important facts here. In 2005, the minister responsible for issuing building permits in protected areas moved from central to local level, so building permits have since been issued in the local office, the regional one in Gospić. In 2013, the new competent minister from another political option gave the second one, indeed a deadly blow to the protection system in protected areas, which is that the public institution, hence the national park, has been expelled from the procedure, so it is no longer a party to the process of issuing a building permit. It's quite unusual. So obviously a spatial plan that now has no place to talk was considered a good enough basis for issuing permits. The consequence is that the public administration of the national park is otherwise absolutely responsible for everything that happens within the protected area outside of any control of the building permits issued. He doesn't even have information. Here is a photo taken these days that shows a new picture, so in the area protected. So, without any notice of authority, so no crane public institution, one grand crane over the surrounding forest. Otherwise, in February of this year, we had a visit to the so-called a reactive observation mission of the World Heritage Centre, which in its report elaborated a very serious lack of a comprehensive protection system. Just building out of control of a public institution is something that screams at itself. And we are really in a position to lose a place, so on that list of world heritage. As a minister in charge of environmental protection, I failed to gain full confidence, or understanding of my colleague, so as to be responsible for the construction of a truly common problem. Here we should also mention the heartfelt support of individual media where a picture of an idyllic image is presented to the public that really has nothing to do with reality. Serious warnings that our oldest national park Plitvice Lakes, the pearl of Croatian natural heritage are seriously threatened by devastion and permanent irrevocable destruction caused by excessive construction and apartmentisation are relatively relative to the extreme bordering absurdity. In the end, defenders rose again, which after 27 years is now not against aggression and enemies, the creation of the Croatian state, but now against well-organised interesting lobbies, unfortunately paired with individual political elites, thus defending Croatia. It's a great honor for them, and let's just let someone dare say that this population deals only with its own interests. This is indeed an extremely responsible procedure. In our own conscience today, each of us has a duty to resist the passiveization of society and to protect what is really ours. The interest of a few is not an excuse to take away our children's right to master and the heritage of our beautiful natural beauty. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So please, I urge everyone responsible to take urgent steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38670	Thank you. I ask all speakers to stick to time. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative of Sinish Varga will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is even though a colleague spoke on this subject the other day, I will again today because since then, for families of children, or for children themselves, nothing has changed except in the segment to meet another of the famous committees of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that need either to make a solution or not to make a solution, but in any case, these commissions do not bring absolutely anything fast. And what is currently expected is a certain speed. Namely, I speak about the current problem for Dinutuximab which is not available to our Croatian patients. But here I will speak from a broader aspect of drug policy in the Republic of Croatia and in general the way in which all citizens and on this medicine, but also on the issue of other medicines from the spectrum of biological therapy, immunotherapy and all related to major leaps and progress that has been made in research and development in the pharmaceutical industry and in the segment a chance to cure diseases or delay the late consequences of malignancies. And I think it's necessary to clarify a few things that may not be clear to the citizens. Namely, the commission was founded by the Minister of Health to see if the medicine was effective or not. However, only a summary of the European Commission, i.e. the European Medicines Agency, has over 150 pages, where the EU's largest healthcare experts, who were involved by the European Medicines Agency, assessed and gave the basis for their analysis, have established that the medicine intended for, as an Orphan friend, as a cure for rare diseases, has the effectiveness and justification for clinical use on the human body. Therefore, I do not see any need for any commission, someone who will reconsider and what the EU's greatest experts have already identified. With this approval when EMA put this on its list of automatism drugs as a member of the EU, the medicine itself was included on medicines approved by the Croatian Medicines Agency in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is available to Croatian citizens and is legally on the Croatian market. Now the question is de facto when and how will the medicine be available on the list of Croatian Health Insurance Institute medicines, which is a prerequisite for being on the list of particularly expensive medicines for the institutions. I have to point out that there's a number of times that there's no MPs here, etc. However, on the basis of an example of the proposal, only one of the professional associations of the Croatian Medical Assembly can initiate a procedure for listing the medicinal product. This has been established by the Medicinal Products Act, more specifically Article 190. The drug laws. And there is no justification that prior to the Committee for Medicinal Products which is principled because of the clinical oncologist, these committees are components of those committees which were appointed by the ruling majority as people of their trust to determine which medicines are on the list, which are not and there is no need then to establish another commission that will give their previous opinion, thus refuting or confirming the opinion of the European Commission, or the Medicines Agency. For that reason, I would stress here that I propose three measures, one short-term, one medium-term, one long-term. In the short term, tomorrow is a meeting of the government, I suggest that the national budget reserves provide funds for Klaic, to deal with the issue of these seven children who are now waiting for the cure. In the mid-term on the 2018 budget, I stress that HDZ has promised to provide sufficient resources for health care and the only party that has done so has received elections and here we expect this promise to be fulfilled and finally long-term, given that through its foreign policy the government is involved in multilateral talks with the multi-city group, I suggest that it continue, deepening Croatia by participating in the combined supply of medicines in that group, because I only think that through similar sizes of economic power we can achieve together volume and thus reduce medicines. But in the short term, I urge you to provide funds for those children who are now waiting for the cure, and later on, you can discuss everything else further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38672	Thank you. On behalf of the HDS Representatives' Club, HSLS, HDSSB, the next will speak for the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38673	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The diversity of these topics we see through these breaks speak of their complexity of the work we do and of our interest to do this job as best as possible, to bring it closer to the public and thus contribute to the work of this House of Commons. However, it is inevitable that this House, which loses authority, loses credibility and loses its effectiveness, in the last year, two days. It's no rarity that this happens in other environments, but at this point I'm interested in time now and here where we can work, where we can do something good, which is why we are or should be here. And that's why it occurred to me, that it would be very reasonable at the very beginning to detect the rules of conduct in this House. One of the elements, I'm not saying that that's all, one of the elements is the phenomenon of immunity in the Parliament. I've been here many times faced with a moral dilemma whether to vote to remove someone's immunity or not. And then it was explained to me that it was an established practice and that's what we were doing. However, I have long thought about it, I have come to the conclusion that I can no longer think of it that way, and that was understandable to me perhaps in a period of a newer Croatian state, that we are acting this way, but I can see today that it has already taken on the scales that are becoming destructive. The Croatian Parliament does not act crediblely, the Croatian Parliament has turned into an institution that adopts laws and criticises through criticism, through discussion brings the best laws, has turned into a place of insult. I will not support this in the future, but I will seek an explanation for each individual and parliamentary representative who uses the right of immunity to insult both fellow MPs or someone from outside who cannot defend himself. The only way to defend himself is a lawsuit. It can be said of anything, in a way to warn of individual mistakes, of irregularities he has made, but words such as criminals, such as arrests, such as thieves, I don't think they're applied to this House. That doesn't mean I want to reduce the critical debate in this House, though. When I look at what that effect has on the public, it becomes even more complex. We are perceived as a group of people who can afford anything, who, without any responsibility, attacks and insults and who are not responsible for anyone. This logic has also formed a collective consciousness in a way that also happens in society full of aggression, full of uncontrollable accusations and that the whole society actually lives in a chaotic state that doesn't lead to good. We can very much argue here about a particular problem, but I ask you to stop insulting me, and I will contribute my contribution to this ceaseance of insult in the future by manifesting my vote, in advance I say by voting against the removal of immunity, where I see that it was an insult, even if it was in the background of some ugly action, ugly phenomena about the individuals to whom it relates, but I think we must maintain dignity both for ourselves and for our own home and for this House in a way that I avoid insults and unnecessary arguments. Criticism yes, insult no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38674	Thank you very much. And last on behalf of the Club of Representatives We change Croatia will take the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. The elemental question arises, does the Republic of Croatia have a clear foreign policy, and in this context I appeared in front of the club Let's change Croatia to ask, what is our foreign policy strategy towards Slovenia? I don't think we have foreign policy strategies. One policy is led by the prime minister, the second president, the third foreign ministry, etc. Maybe that foreign policy strategy isn't necessary, but then you have to say why and who you listen to then. Maybe it's enough to listen to Brussels or some other power center. And look on the other side at a small country, twice as small as Croatia, but it knows what it wants, Slovenia is working extremely actively to achieve its foreign policy goals. So the Slovenians know what they want. Here are the next days and weeks to announce that a decision of the arbitration court will be announced on the border dispute with Croatia and is constantly being placed in public, especially now that the tourist season comes to an end. We know that in 2015, this Parliament refused to participate and recognise the Court of Justice's decision on this, but the key question is now, what is our position, what is the plan after that, what do we want, how are we going to solve problems with Slovenia? Whether the Government and the President and this Assembly will suffer this problem under the rug for some indefinite period of time, or they will act proactively and make a proposal on how to solve these problems. We obviously have to solve these open and biggest problems with our neighbours, so we have to take a seat at the table, but here in ten days, this decision on the arbitration court will be announced. And already yesterday you saw yourself saying that the application of border controls will begin, and that in translation means that Slovenians will start harassing tourists who are coming to Croatia to use it as a pressure for Croatians to accept the Court's decision. And everyone in our house is silent. So are we afraid of it? Of course we don't want an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but we have to show our attitude, but we have ways to answer that for sure. It's pressure that's going to work on the border now, it's uglyly unacceptable, and I say we can answer it too. But the Parliament and the government need to coordinate the plan to address these problems. But on the other hand here, two, three months ago, I was talking about the problem of the Ljubljanska Banka, which is about two billion euros from the Croatian state asking Slovenia or the Ljubljanska Banka now for a new Ljubljanska banka, based on the unpaid old foreign exchange savings of Croatian citizens in their branch in Zagreb that has not been paid and which has reached about two billion euros with interest and tight interest. But after that, no one had toe-to-toe in the previous government, is two billion small for people who are acting in government. This is a huge problem and a huge amount and therefore deserves to be dealt with every day. But that's not what colleagues and colleagues do. So whose interest is it then, if two billion claims in Slovenia don't matter, what's important in this country? For two billion, we can buy out the Hungarian part of the INA and a few more important problems in this country. Again, why is this not the priority of Croatian foreign policy? Imagine this problem of the Ljubljanska banka is left to the Zagreb Bank and the Privredna banka that those in private disputes lead the problems, and in fact it has disbursed the foreign deposits of the state of Croatia from the budget and now has the right to claim. So to conclude. Whoever doesn't have clear foreign policy goals obviously listens to someone. Well, we see sometimes from Brussels it's enough that someone just picks up their eyebrows, and here they jump out of the chair wondering if you need anything else. The Party Change Croatia strongly opposes this one way of leading foreign policy, lack of foreign policy, and we are looking for a plenary session in the Assembly, so that the president, foreign minister, prime minister, will come to explain the strategy of foreign policy, the main goals and we will take positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38676	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38708	And I'm sorry, my colleague Pernar called before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38709	Thank you. I'm looking for a break for the Milanovic family's raid near Motovun, to talk about the problem, here's 10 minutes if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38710	Can we not take a break right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38711	We can, we can, we can, we can, we can, we can, we
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38712	Here you go, then. Here you go. We're not gonna take a break, we're gonna give it right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38713	I would like to thank President Jandrokovic for allowing us, as he would say, to cut short the time, but also to point to what is important to us. And that's that 23. 6. I think at 9.30 p.m., there will be another attempt at the Milanovic family's participation in Motovun, which has lost its home due to the loan of the illegal RBA cooperative, i.e. cooperatives that worked without CNB's permission. They issued loans and it is logical to expect that the Croatian state would protect the Milanovic family, whose family is one member, is part of that family is a child who suffered from cerebral paralysis in a wheelchair. And the only thing they're offering to that child is that the competent institutions are actually accommodations in some house for fixed persons in Novigrad if I don't remember. And this is what happens, that the state doesn't really protect its own citizens, and we're here to discuss the subsidisation of loans, and to help people who are raising loans, but we already have citizens who have been raising loans, who can't repay them, who are on the street with one foot and how the state assists them. How's he helping them? He's helping them by dissipating them. There, it is the help our country offers and the question of responsibility is raised. Are these people themselves to blame or simply the monetary system of our country is such that loans cannot be returned? What's the greatest hypocrisy that a state that can't repay loans, and that doesn't credit some small one, but there are huge debts it doesn't repay, it deposes people who owe a lot less and then suggests to them that you were paying back the loan, wouldn't be disbursed. And it's always that identical message, they blame themselves because they couldn't repay the loan. And that message is being sent by the same politicians who on behalf of the state are raising loans they're not returning. And it's not just the central state that's the problem here, and neither the highways can repay the loans, the railways or the shipyards, there's almost no major legal entity. Here's the case of Petrochemy. Same thing, no way to repay the loans. And then what, when you owe billions and hundreds of millions, then you can. Then there's a new loan. And when it comes to a family that isn't HDZ's fund-raiser who's the one from the PPD, who doesn't have any connections in high politics, then we go to the street. And it's a sad thing that I, as a parliamentary representative, have to walk on the detachments, and it's sad that I have to sort of promote myself in a way that I do. I wish I didn't have to do it. I wish HDZ was a credible party and kept its promise before the election, that it would protect the only home from the occasion. But unfortunately not. And the Milanovic family, which is now paying the price by irony, that is, by the game of the case, also the former prime minister. And the question arises what are we as parliamentary representatives planning to do about it? How long, then, will the MPs of the Living Wall have to walk on the occupancy? Three more years, 10 years, 20 years, where does this go? What's the point of all this? I don't see it, ladies and gentlemen. I can't see, and I don't get it. I can't simply, as I would say, understand, I can't see the meaning of this policy that leads to the disinfectation of citizens, when at the same time we have terrible negative processes, the escape of people from the country, means the depopulation to the strongest, hundreds of thousands of citizens have moved away from one side, on the other hand we have a record negative natural increase, so the number of children born is the lowest since Croatia exists. So where does that lead to the long run? You add up, you add up, you add up, you get evicted, and every year you get fewer and fewer children born. Where will that take our country? And instead of us in the House, we're dealing with how to reverse trends, we're dealing with how we're going to get people to raise new loans. As a state, something will subsidize you, and at the same time young people, I'm introducing a property tax, even though it's the first real estate, I don't know the VAT, etc., and basically people will eventually pay for that subsidy themselves and eventually be disbursed if they can't get it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38714	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38715	If I understood correctly, my colleague Maras would say on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38716	Yes, Mr. Vice President, in accordance with this practice and a little while ago, the president allowed it, perhaps without this break, to address on behalf of the Club, regarding the layoffs of the workers in Konzum that were announced today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38717	Well, I'm not prone to such practice, I'm inclined to respect the Rules of Procedure, so I'll see you in 14.15 minutes. MEETING AT 14.05 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.15 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38719	Thank you very much. ... I know that here this debate has already gone away, the interest has fallen a little bit, but important things have to be talked about and I would ask all those who listen to us here, especially media representatives to pass on what I'm about to say. [[Specially enabled.]] At this point, it is announced what is amazing to me in the middle of the season to close 100 consumm stores, so at this point the government's commissioner in Agrokor means the one the government has put there to run the business, the HDZ, is that they will fire three thousand people. At the same time for two months, three months of this crisis in Agrokor, the HDZ government assured us there would be no layoffs. So they lied to us all in a row, we were lied to by Prime Minister Plenkovic. On 9 May this year, Deputy Prime Minister Dalic said in an interview on a national television about layoffs we have nothing to say. It hasn't been two months since 9 May, three thousand people are out of work, 100 Konzum stores are closing. It's a scandal, it's a relationship and the way this government treats the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, towards employees in companies where the government of the Republic of Croatia has influence, and at this point in the Agrokor, it's a time to look for the responsibility of those who spoke so. Based on that false statement, Minister Dalic must resign. Two months ago, she openly lied to the Croatian public and said that layoffs, I can quote correctly, “there are no layoffs in Konzum or Agrokor, we do not need to talk about layoffs. ” That's exactly what Minister Dalic said. And what happened two months later? Mr. Ledic, who runs now, has announced the closure of 100 stores. I ask all media to convey that people see the HDZ government treating its citizens and that simply the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, those who still have the illusion that Prime Minister Plenkovic, HDZ are telling the truth and taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this illusion of loss. You are responsible colleagues and colleagues who have made it possible for Minister Dalic to take over Agrokor's management, to agree on us in May of this year and that three thousand people in Konzum will be fired in a shorter period. It's scandalous and unfortunately it's become a splendor of HDZ behavior and they're just wondering how long and how it's gonna be tolerated. That's not to be done by colleagues and colleagues. Lying for local elections and then not a month after that three thousand people sent on the road de facto to leave them without a job. I assumed that what Mrs. Dalic and all those who follow the situation were not true, that we were told the truth, but simply when things happen so plasticly, when people are out of work, and you can't react in this House. And I think that's one of the key reasons why the SDP club is going to ask for Martina Dalic's departure and resignation from the post of Deputy Prime Minister because she lied to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia saying there will be no layoffs just 40 days ago. Three thousand people in Konzum are out of a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38720	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This statement by colleagues Maras on behalf of the SDP club best says how well we did when we... and proposed and passed the Law on the conduct of extraordinary management in companies of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if it hadn't been for that law then what my colleague Maras is saying would have happened, but not in the number in which he said it, and I don't know where he got that 3,000-dollar piece of information from the employee who's going to be fired. But this situation would be... with the total number of Agrokor employees in Croatia who have about 40,000 employees in Croatia without saying what would happen to all those suppliers, the OPGs, primarily small suppliers who are connected with interesting, business with the Agrokor concert. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the fact that this law has not been passed, we would have witnessed the bankruptcy of more than 70 dependent companies in the Agrokor concert and would not be talking about the possible layoff of a small number of employees in the non-profit sales centres of Konzum. How much information I have been able to read in this short time that the President of Konzum said that there will be layoffs in 80 to 100 sales centres but that these same workers will be initially proposed to move to other locations where possible. And in any case, if one of the employees and cannot be taken care of in the Konzum system clearly that the company will have to act according to the law and allow for the clear care of all these excess workers who will eventually be fired after closing non-profit centres in the Consum system. On the other hand, we were saying that with the Act of Conduct and the extraordinary administration in companies of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, first of all we will stabilise the business of the company and the company is stabilised, as you know, the wages are paid neatly, all companies in the concert are unblocked, the orderly acquisition of the necessary goods is continued to ensure that the consummated policies are full and that they can continue to function normally. But then we said there was another phase. The second stage involves signing a deal with creditors and restructuring the concert itself. Just what is happening now is going after financial consolidation, for the efficiency and profitability of the Konzum itself, and on that track is this announced closure of a certain small, smaller number of non-profitd sales centres. Therefore, the Emergency Administration Act has enabled stabilisation and is now entering the second part of the law which is designed to restructure the concerts so that through its restructuring all those healthy segments of the company and all companies in the Agrokora system can function normally. So I think that this law that we've passed, I don't think, but I'm sure I've already had a huge success because it stabilized the business of a company that is very important for the functioning of the financial and economic system of the Republic of Croatia. And if there is a possible layoff of a certain number of workers, what is the obligation and where we will insist that they be taken care of in accordance with the law or that it would be better to redistribute in a system of concerts to jobs that correspond to their professional preparation. Well, in that sense, I had a need on behalf of the club to respond to this kind of SDP approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u38722	Thank you very much. Now we will continue with what was on the agenda, and that is: - Final proposal of the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, second reading, P.Z. Number 126. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Construction, and their reports were received at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Katica Prpic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41364	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. There is a law before you whose adoption would allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not more than 45 years old and whose spouse or spouse, life partner or informal life partner does not own an apartment or house or who owns only one apartment or house he sells to buy a larger state or house, or building a house because of the need for his own apartment to resolve their housing issue on more favourable terms. It makes it easier to repay the housing loan for the first 4 years so that half of the total amount of the meal, i.e. the annuity of the Republic of Croatia pays through the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation to the credit institution, is made easier in advance for the current calendar year. A further extension of the credit subsidisation period shall be made possible in the event that the applicant or member of his family household is at least 50% for a year or 2 years for each lively or adopted child during the credit subsidisation period. The amount of credit to be subsidized is limited to a maximum amount of 1500 euros per square metre or to the maximum total amount of the price of the apartment or house, which is 100 thousand euros, which averages the size of the house or apartment of 66 square metres. Basic issues to be settled by this law. It is prescribed that the request for credit subsidisation is submitted after the publication of a public call for applications in the National Journal and the public votes published by the APN by 31 July 2018, the deadlines for submission of applications, the conditions for granting the subsidisation of credit. The effective interest rate on the first 4 years of the loan cannot be greater than 3.75% per year. These, at the end of the first 4 years of repayment of loans and over the next two years, can be increased by a maximum of 10% to an effective interest rate determined for the first 4 years of repayment. It is prescribed that the loan subsidisation contract on behalf of the Republic of Croatia concludes the APN, that the implementation of the loan subsidisation contract is accompanied by the credit institution and the APN, that the APN submits once a year to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a report on the implementation of this law. For the implementation of this Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, €17.5 million has been secured on the contract of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. Moreover, the financial means for the execution of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under a contract concluded under this Act will be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and after the expiry of the law on 30 September 2022 and all in accordance with the obligations laid down in the contract. Thank you very much. That was brief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41365	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, Mrs. Prpic. In the light of this law, there is, among other things, the reason why it is brought, the reason why it is brought, the possibility of a demographic recovery of Croatia. So in an explanation quite detail that stands. Similarly, when a survey was conducted about two years ago among the younger population, and then the poll resulted in the fact that young people mainly decided that it would be acceptable for them, incomparably more that there was a public lease programme than buying apartments. For the simple reason that they are more flexible, which is why the State Rent programme also gives certain security and does not force them to enter loans immediately. Otherwise countries that have really passed a demographic recovery programme like Croatia offer a wide range of offers for their young population, i.e. younger people as one of the reasons why they stay there and do not go and move to other countries. So I'm curious because this law is going through and we know why and how. Does this mean that the ministry has given up the rental project at all or that perhaps in some second or third phase it will come to the rental project. It should not be forgotten that at this moment the most expensive properties are along the coastal line, i.e. by the sea itself. And somewhere there in 2015, a large poll was made through APN in Split-Dalmatia County, specifically in the town of Split, where 1700 young families said they were much more eligible for the rental project than to enter the project of buying apartments. So I'm wondering if the Ministry has given up on the rental project at all or at any other stage or third stage is going to be another addition to the offer that will allow young people not to emigrate, or at least one of the elements, and that's a safe residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41367	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Ljubice Lukačić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, you have noted in your opening statement that if the applicant or member of his household is persons with disabilities that the subsidy will be extended for another year. On this I can give you on behalf of all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia who are not a small number, but there are not many who raise loans to buy the situation, so on behalf of all of them I can thank you for that. And I'd say that instead of, if you were, or with a demographic measure that should be, which this law, which should have the effect that you're also disabled, even though I wouldn't say that you're socially sensitive because people with disabilities don't belong to the social category, they have to live equally well. Yes, it will be if they are very, very poor, which they are most often today but well. However, I see that you have also provided for another possibility in Article 2 and that is to subsidise the loan for another year if, within this period of 4 years of subsidisation, the disability of the applicant or his household member is equally established. An extremely good measure, I have nothing to say but I would ask you to extend this period of one year if it is possible to extend it to two years. Because one year of absolute disability can't help because entire families are paralyzed when disability occurs, for more than one or more years. But for two years at least it can mean something, so I ask you to think about it for the rest of this debate to think about further extending this deadline. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41369	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State. I wonder if and when, like Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, you've been thinking, are you thinking about subsidizing rents for these 17 million kunas as much as you predicted in the annual budget? If they subsidized the monthly rent to young families for 100 euros, it would come out at the end of the year for 1700 subsidies which is much more, I would say and possibly more lastingly help these people at some point than is now being done. Since aid is directed here to both families and the financial sector, which will have a reduced risk, or interest will be subsidised and will be safer to collect these loans. So that's why I'm not going with the rent? Because of what is especially more and more trend among young families and what would be done. So 1700 people with 100 euro subsidies per month could benefit from this amount annually, and on the other hand, what I particularly think is that if the state is already going to these measures, it should go even more significantly, is that you plan 17 million kunas from the budget annually, and by selling those apartments you plan on incomeing 95 million. So if it's already an emergency to help young people, then why haven't we invested all 95 million at the annual level how much is it going to be coming in by selling these apartments into the state budget? Wouldn't that make sense? That the state has zero earnings related to those apartments? Why do we help families in this way, 1,000 of them, it is limited aid because it is sold in Croatia 3 to 4000 apartments annually, so why don't we make more help? So de facto de state is going to help but on the other hand it's going to make money, so it wasn't done for me in the most efficient way possible, I'm asking you to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41371	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this law is not part of any measure of demographic policy of this government and it should be recalled how this law even happened. So, at the end of last year, when the Tax Reform Act was voted and debated when this government introduced a tax on first real estate, which was not paid until then, then during this debate, during the night, a bombistically released announcement of the introduction of this law as a state will pay half the loans to young families. We asked the prime minister directly a few days later, and Minister Kusčević, now formerly, to explain the measure to us, did not know it at the time. So this law is full of inequality, full of indifference and as such essentially depicts the best policy of this government. And that's when there's a little fire, then take a glass of water and pour it. Namely, this law, I will personally support it because this is at least a small step in helping young families whom you have done enormous damage in the last six months. You made the first tax reform when you raised your salaries exclusively to the rich, the young families did not raise their salaries. You introduced a tax on the first real estate where young families had to start paying between 20 and 30,000 kuna taxes. To this extent, you have limited resources, which means that according to some estimates it will only be used by 1,000 and a half people, the fastest people in Croatia who will be able to reach it. The extension of funding for the newborn child is good, but does this mean that next year it will reduce the number of new users given the limited budget resources? Second, make more arrangements. What are young people in Croatia? Because when we have a professional training measure, then it's people up to 30 years old, and when we have housing loans, then it's people up to 45 years old, so this government doesn't know what young people are in Croatia. Give me more of that, give me some direction, some plan, and let's do something for young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41373	Thank you. Here's a reply to the replica will be given by the esteemed State Secretary Katica Prpic. Here you go. Okay. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one will speak at the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41374	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, State Secretary, the strongest team is here, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have already discussed this law, in principle, we are all agreed to help and I mean here and in advance, yes, we will give support, but in this final word I would also warn of certain negative consequences that will be due to the application of this law, which whoever lived especially in an assisted area, is aware of that in the past. First, let's do some math. So, as announced, about 1,000 loans will be subsidized somewhere. I'll tell you that somewhere in Croatia, about 16,000 apartments are built on average and there are houses. Let's say, twenty thousand houses. So in five years we're talking about 100,000 objects. We'll give a thousand support. So we're talking about one percent. I mean, the intensity is good, but the resources will be insufficient. We're just not going to do the effect we wanted. You've secured 35 million kunas over five years, so basically those funds will be limited. But I'd like to make a comparison. According to the Law on Socially Encouraged Housing there were various forms of promotion of housing and were particularly relevant to areas where living conditions were difficult, and if you look at the little budget for 2017 and the announcements of projections 2018, 2109. you will see a significant reduction in this item. You reduce the item from 220 million a year in 2018 to 155, then to 143. So you're down 65 million years, then 77, and you're back 35. So it's extraordinary. We've made a save. That state spends less, but we haven't achieved any effect. I'm just talking about how it's clear to me that the difficult conditions and getting exactly to tell the European Commission that we've reduced the deficit and that we've come out of that procedure are nice, but I'm saying that it has a price. And I'm afraid that price is just being paid in those areas where it's the hardest. This is why I said five years or the law itself was put on the date of September 30, 2022. And it's good to have this amendment in front of the parliamentary committee, to put an end to it because it's probably going to have to be more significant and changing, to extend, because with this we're not going to achieve our goals. What is more important is to highlight these assisted areas. There, the intensity of the construction depended precisely on the intensity of the local self - government, which sought the opportunity to introduce construction in the area of such a municipality or city. They also made huge efforts to secure agricultural land, put together priority lists with APN, and they agreed, and now we're going to send them a message that, excellently what you've been doing, but those funds are shrinking. Looking at the commitments of previous years, so the reduction in the future can be said that the Law on Social Encouragement will very soon, as with this amendment, be envisaged to simply be abolished because we will not have the resources for new programmes. And if you remember the assignment of material that went towards young families, what did we do? We did not help the young family who lived in the rural area of the assisted area, but by allowing the entire area of the PPDS to be built, to move from their particularly smaller villages, smaller communities, to go to cities. With that law, in one good intention, we relaxed the villages. We've transferred people to cities, and instead of having the effect that people are coming back, they live in their environments to give them living conditions, we've made it possible for them, of course, if you put the same material into one house in the city, it's certainly worth a lot more than a certain house in the village. In our villages, here is the Vukovar-Srijem County house you can buy already right now from the rebuilding program for tens of thousands of euros. There's even less for 5,000 euros. I don't really see the need to encourage any housing anymore. And believe me, no entrepreneur in such environments will go to build neither houses nor apartments, nor will they be interested in using privileges. And yet our youngsters we want to help will be with this decision that is well-intentioned in other areas and we will not help the demographic restoration of the most endangered areas. The other problem that will arise is that money race when an ad is announced who's ready, who's going to catch their chance. If we pass the law now whether a public call will be made during the summer so it'll be whoever gets to the girl, the girl is his. And for that reason, we need to send a clear message from here that it's not only to secure funds, but also to strongly promote this programme, to make information as accessible as possible, not to be like with the social incentive housing that has been used really in a very small amount if I've read 100 and some projects all these years. Therefore, I expect us to be active here, that the ministry be active in the promotion, that when real needs are seen, then we can go back if we need this law both in the government and here in the Parliament and provide it with more significant resources. Here we have now on the benches and the amendment of the esteemed representative and Mr Alexic on respecting the variable rate as a more favourable model. And we as a club of representatives will give support to that amendment, because it really shows its advantages. So with the support we're going to give this law, I've only warned about the problems that are definitely going to arise, and I'd like to have a measurement of the effect that I haven't seen. We can always look at this effect, the fiscal effect that will be in the budget itself. That's clearly what I said. We saved 65 million next year, we're back 35. We saved 77 million in 2019, we're back 35. Therefore, the state has earned it. That's the effect of fiscal, and that effect on people I didn't see that document, so I'd ask the Ministry to come out with a document like that, that we can clearly project people what they're going to benefit from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41375	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas, so let's take a turn. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Panenic, you said the strongest team is here from the ministry, not the strongest team, no minister. Where's the minister? This law is the peri-curricular law according to the government's demographic policy, what Andrej Plenkovic wants or does, and we don't have a minister. What kind of message is that? I wonder why the minister didn't come here today. Is he afraid, because he is a merchant and is afraid of criticizing MPs, so he is already among people and named as the biggest trader of our Croatian political history, as well as his party, but it is unacceptable not to come to the Croatian Parliament for this reason. So we have a government that avoids this Parliament. No Maric, for months already, now there won't be a Stromar and I think it's simple, so maybe there's an appeal here and Vice President Rainer to warn the representatives of the government and the secretary who arranges for the minister when he comes. It's not the strongest composition. So there's no Stromar dealer. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41377	The reply to the replica, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41378	... Dear colleague Maras, it is clear that this law does not belong to the current minister, but to Minister Kuštević, whose mandate he is made and I still prefer that there are people here who know what was done in the law, how was prepared, but that the minister who would then have difficulties, objective difficulties explaining to us all the components of this law. [[Specially enabled.]] We expect from the new minister, his laws, his vision of the development of the Ministry of Construction, and then we will certainly ask him questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41379	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenic, you spoke in your debate about how the state began to earn, as the financial effects of the state are seen, and now you see this law, although at first glance it sounds bombistic, nice, well, the state pays half the credit, but on this law the state will earn, and you see how. So, the young family, let's say, raises a loan of 100,000 euros to 30 years, that would be approximately war some 3,000, 3500 kuna, depending now on the bank to the bank and the state returns half the war for the first year, that's about 1500 to 1700 kuna. But this family buys an apartment of 100,000 euros and immediately pays the real estate tax introduced by this government, which is 30 thousand kuna, when you divide it into 12 months, it's 2 and a half thousand kuna per month. Which means the state will still be in plus after the subsidy. And then with that real estate tax they bought in the first year they funded that year, in the second year, second year, third year, third year, and in three years, we'll see who lives, who dies, and so the government reconfigures every six months, so maybe they'll reconfigure the law. Who gives us the guarantee that this law will last five years? It's the financial problems of this law and why it's not good. So this is turning from hollow to empty. Limited funds that can only be used by 1,000, 1500 users already say that people are in an unequal position. Just laugh, fellow Boric, just laugh, if you knew the math, you wouldn't laugh. The second thing, when you get an incentive, another extension of the credit, it automatically reduces the funds in the next year. So there will be no more 1,000 than 800 in next year. Because they'll have to pay further. Secondly, 6 months stands the real estate market in Croatia, 6 months because they announced this law for the new year. 6 months people do not buy real estate in Croatia because they are waiting for this law to come and how much damage has been done to the state budget and the real estate market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41381	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Panenich.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41382	I'm glad you recognize a number of shortcomings that are not visible at first sight. We come to the fact that exactly the populist measures that my club has primarily called all in a row, are slowly to come out, that one is populism and the other is the reality that is happening. Giving support is certainly something that is acceptable. It's been a major public response, but let's be prepared to deal with the consequences. The government and we in Parliament will finally support this law, but it is important that we warn now that the lack of funds will be evident, that very few families will come to this. I hope that this debate will stimulate exactly the increase in funding in the following year and in the budget that we do not have to amend that item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41383	Thank you very much. The next replica of the distinguished representative, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenic, in your debate, you started with some data. Unfortunately, I think you had incorrect information, so let me just correct you. I am there with HGK data that takes care of how many apartments were built in Croatia annually. Well, maybe it's convenient to know, in 2005 in Croatia 19995 apartments were built, in 2008 during the expansion of 25368 apartments, and in 2015. 8059 apartments. For 2016 we have no data, but we have one data that is quite indicative of the announcement of this law, which is that in 2016 and now in 2017 there is an increased number of building permits. This increased number of building permits also partially refers to residential construction, so that apparently investors, knowing about this law, decided to invest in their assets in residential construction, which I absolutely support, because what was in 2008 was certain that these 25,000 apartments in Croatia that were made was too booming and was too big a problem. We will also support this law, for a simple reason, which we think is incomparable better to have any measure than none, but what's good in this law, and I don't think it's enough, this law applies to both the purchase of old real estate and the purchase of properties that already are, and that's actually a way to put old real estate into office. So here I just reported a little bit of accurate data to say what was going on in Croatia and I think that in relation to the needs it has a year, somewhere around ten thousand apartments is maximum, everything that is above it leads to a disturbance and then we have this large number of unsold apartments that we have at one point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41385	The distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41386	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. I said an average of 16 grand, and unfortunately here I know it's shrinking, so we got to those tens of thousands, but it's still 50,000 apartments in this time of housing, but it still remains my finding. I would like those apartments and houses to be bought right in areas that have difficulties and which are evident to be displaced. This is how we will encourage people to move unfortunately to Zagreb, some major environments, and we have not met the conditions of even development. Unfortunately, the problem of the construction operation that you've well established is evident. We've had problems now and with energy efficiency programs where we re-application has become a builder each and now we have problems with the work done, with cold bridges per object. It's something we're going to have to do a lot of work. Therefore, it is not only a solution to grant import licences for labour force but to ensure that our labour market for the needs of the construction operation is much more efficient, to make it more professional that we can implement the positive programmes proposed by the government and the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41387	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic. In your introduction, you said that you would start with mathematics, you mentioned in this context the funding from the state budget for stimulating housing, reducing them and talking about the attractiveness and coherence of state measures when it comes to encouraging housing. I will give you concrete information in this sense, when we talk about the attractiveness of a measure, whether this law or encouraging housing or housing which may be the best measure then I will tell you that encouraging housing no matter how much we praise that measure in 14 years its application in the Republic of Croatia in that model has been sold or purchased better said about six thousand apartments. So it's about 400 apartments a year. In doing so, encouraging housing includes a lot of bank players, agencies, local self-government and a clear user of credit. This measure is much more attractive and better, and the information that makes it better is the fact that this law was in force in 2011 and 2012. The project sold 1150 apartments annually, so twice as many as it sold on average annually in the POS model. So I'm saying that for a country that's cheaper this model, for a country that's cheaper, for a buyer, and for another thing, it's not a ghettoization, which is a POS. You are according to this law, not you are over 45 years old, but the user of this loan can wherever he wants to buy an apartment in the Republic of Croatia under these conditions, and when it comes to POS only where encouraging housing is built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41389	The distinguished representative Tomislav Panenic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41390	Always this mathematics can be two-sided and well that there are different explanations. But I wish in the end we had to buy apartments, build apartments. I don't know where I am in an island town, the city of Ilock, maybe even in the Tompoevci municipality to happen, but trust me, it won't. It will be difficult in one city of Vukovar, one city of Vinkovci, and that's a problem we haven't touched, we haven't decided where our priority is. With this measure, we will further devastate just like this, and we must be aware of that. So we're doing young people a favor, but we're not doing a community service where they live right now, we're just going to make it easier for them to leave and have another extra reason to move out. That's what hurts me the most in all of this, because I know we won't be able to prevent it because we weren't a little bit more detailed in this, that we adapted these criteria, that we should give priority and maybe increase the share of support exactly in the areas we want to build up. So what will the Ministry of Regional Development say about this, how will they balance through uniform regional development? I can't if they don't participate with other ministries because this is a measure that's not for the purpose of even development, this is something that means the imbalance is again all these incentives that are given on the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41391	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41392	Thank you very much. A colleague of Panenic's, in the debate on this law, you have raised the most important question, i.e. The key issue of unbalanced development and desolation of Croatia from Slavonia, Gorsko kotar, Dalmatia Zagora and the whole of Dalmatia and the hinterland as well as the island. Of course, subsidies are good, but if centralization has made effects, and they are visible that we have two-thirds of Croatia empty, we see that we have not only empty objects but the entire villages that once had some kind of infrastructure, not some kind of one, but they even have school buildings that are now collapsing because they are empty. If we didn't mean the solution was decentralisation, it's gone, it's visible then these laws should be exactly what you saw well in your debate to go laws towards these parts to keep people subsidized, and to stay in these areas, not to have empty hearths, empty villages. Because surely if we were to aimly go through these laws and incentives, subsidies in these areas and this infrastructure that exists in these areas, there would be no example today because in the last 20 years only from the Dalmatian mountain has evicted 100,000 people and this whole family, not just people who have left... So first of all, the solution is that subsidies are targeted according to areas that are underdeveloped or that are forgotten essentially by all laws and regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second is decentralisation towards local self-government, underdeveloped and better allocation of funds and money subsidized through rural development programmes, the Ministry of Regional Development. If this is the case, we will only settle huge cities, where they have some kind of infrastructure such as the city of Zagreb and other areas and two thirds of Croatia will be burned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41393	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41394	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, I'm glad you recognize yourself in words, you recognize actually the problems of your area and what I was saying, not just you, there are probably a lot of MPs here who can also say and confirm that this is going to happen. But one thing is certain that, you said yourself in these elections over 60,000 votes you had to be the perfect representative, to fight for all your citizens as much as you can along with your own, you'll hardly be able to have that number again precisely because of what's going to show a catastrophic picture. With me in the county comparing the number of voters from the previous time of 2013 and now it is evident that signs are confirming that it has moved somewhere around 10% of the population. So we can be politicians, but if we don't have people to represent, then let's go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41395	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41396	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, you have opened two important topics in my opinion. First of all, when we talk about this condition that the first thousand to be reported will actually be able to consume these incentives. It's not good, it's not good for the state to legislate the Olympics or some kind of competition. It's not a tournament. Even when we first talked about the law, it might be a better solution to see how many interested people there are, so maybe the total funds are being allocated to that number of interested ones, not to be this condition. Because we saw, I think the past has shown us when it comes to quotas that it was that in the middle of the night they were admitted to post requests, we're talking about energy. And the other thing is, it's a question of great practice. Maybe we're already getting on the nerves of Slavons here when we're talking, of course, it's not just Slavonia about many other regions. True, it's not the Ministry's fault, the law is passed for the entire Republic of Croatia. We in Slavonia, if it were some kind of regional parliament, would never have passed such a law. Watch out for 1900 euros per square in some kind of rural space, you know what it is, it's science fiction, it doesn't have 1900 euros. We have people today who are jobless, hard to live hard to make a doghouse with incentives and let alone a residential object. Somewhere, the data suggests that the largest number of residential buildings, actually the house, were mentioned by fellow Panenic houses built there before 1987. When you're driving to Slavonia you see that it's not even this one, actually these incentives for energy restoration, and they haven't given results yet and many houses are and today it's unsettled, many houses are long started and not finished. What I'm saying is, so in Slavonia, I'm afraid this measure won't bring much effect, you've given it a good warning. Maybe buying apartments will come true with this, but building houses. Or let me put it this way, maybe more would be achieved to free those who build the house, to free them of VAT on construction material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41397	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41398	My colleague Mader to this last thing I can say only when you're a minister so it'll probably be much better and you'll give much better suggestions but maybe this is the time that was before us through our words shows that we still need to keep working on changing and supplementing the law and we can now adopt this now and that after some time we see how it will reflect it again. But I'm sure a lot of people will try to get to this loan. And what we know, of course, is that by looking at the conditions of your young people, they're going to transfer that possibility to their young people, you go shopping for real estate. We're going to have a phenomenon like family economies, when we said only young agricultural economies,... A carrier younger than, I don't know now exactly how old it was, don't give me a word about it now, so then they opened up a new O.P.G. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have a home address for two, three OPGs. What did we do? Let's just do some more accounting services to pay and get a certain amount of money. We should be aware of the real needs of this living family rather than constantly creating new users who must be separated by force of law. And it is certain that there will be many of them who will go now and on this public call when applications will not be selected from someone, for some criteria that have a lower value. What do we do with them? So they're going to get that support, so they're going to pick up a year, so they're not going to get a year. So this after 2, 3 years, so we've told them, let's get into it, sign up, and then when the applications never get back, they'll have trouble getting back and we see already that loans, the return of credit, the problem that arises is one of the most difficult situations our citizens face. Therefore, it will take a lot of wisdom on the part of the real estate agency to make these criteria clear in advance so that someone does not go towards such a type of credit and that he is finally aware that he will be somewhere on the bottom of a list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41399	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41400	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Panenić, you said that even this law will not contribute to demographic restoration and I realized your exposure is well-intentioned. Well-intentioned because you come from rural areas and you know exactly what the situation is in these areas. But I would like to warn you or draw your attention to the fact that by 2015, perhaps some demographics in the Republic of Croatia... and other demographics who have warned about the problem of demographics, today we have come to the situation that both left and right and those in the center and here in this Croatian Assembly talk about problems of demographics and solutions that can help solve demographics in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of them is resolving the housing issue for young people as one of the measures demographics are talking about. Of course, what you're saying should follow some other measures, measures related to economic development. I remember that in 2006, the government of the Republic of Croatia brought one document to national population policy, I am convinced that this government is on track, and that by the end of this government, such a document will be adopted that will actually have programmes and measures through all institutions not only from the ministries but from the agencies, from the municipalities, municipalities that will be co-ordinated by the administration for this better demographic image in the Republic of Croatia. And as for this law, the final draft of the law, let's say the young family took up to 100,000 euros with a loan, I don't know, 15 years at an interest rate of 3.75% with the subsidisation of one or more children, but also a person with disabilities, let's say in my case it would be subsidising 14 years, which is not a small thing and which is actually a big asset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41401	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41402	Dear fellow, I can only agree with what you're saying. However, looking at this economic parallel shift that is to happen, I cannot share that opinion because my environment is specifically damaged and my community is damaged. So we are damaged by these measures that have been taken, we are damaged by the tax reliefs that have been lifted from us, and for our economic operators, therefore, the neighbouring city of Vukovar has been left behind as certainly and I supported and stressed in the debate, but we are not, my worker, he is no longer competitive on the labour market, he is the only measure with such a encouraged programme to move to the town of Vukovar. So we're going to turn the villages around the city into a salache because that measure didn't recognize that it couldn't give a certain amount of support, but you have to give the area that's gravitating somewhere. So I don't see that shift happening. So we're talking, the consistency of all measures, we can't just say there's one measure here. If you're looking at maybe on average a great measure and what you've mentioned, and encouraging housing, this way what's going to happen is great, but I'm only saying, who eats meat in that charm and who eats cabbage. I'm afraid we're always people from the area I come from, eating cabbage. That's what I'm worried about, and I don't want it to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41403	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Time will be shared by distinguished representatives Branimir Bunjac and Goran Aleksic. Here you go. Who wants to go first? Dear Representative Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41404	Dear Vice President, respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I had a few considered very constructive proposals at the first reading of this law, this bill. Unfortunately, no proposal has been accepted for another model to be proposed for subsidisation, and that would be a model to pay the full interest, and in that case it should not limit the repayment of the credit because the amount that the state pays would be about the same as in the case where half the war is paid, but it would be much better for the debtors because they would be paid a lot more if they were able to repay credit for 10, 12, 13 years, which is not possible now. According to the proposal in the procedure, the minimum payment deadline is 15 years. So in case this model I suggested was adopted, as a second model, means when both models survive, it would be possible for the payment deadline not to be limited. Secondly, I suggested that some criteria be prescribed because these would now be "whoever faster, his girlfriend", and it would be good if at least some criteria existed, unfortunately there are no such criteria. It is also proposed to offer both kuna loans and loans with the euro currency clause. In that case, we would probably have a situation where most debtors would raise loans without a currency clause and we would have a situation so that the offer would exist, that's for sure. Already, a domestic bank offers loans, kuna loans with very low interest rates, so there would be no problem so that banks would not now dare to lend such loans. Such loans already exist and now, therefore should be imposed on banks to offer both kuna and euro loans under such conditions. And finally, the proposal I made and which was kind of adopted, but still not adopted, is a proposal to oblige banks to offer a way of paying off in wars and annuities. War and annuities in the bill are mentioned, however, there is no obligation for banks to offer it, so I have prepared an amendment in Article 21, a new paragraph 4 would be added, which would oblige banks to offer both payments to war and payment in annuities and the consumer, i.e. the debtor who would raise the loan, would be the one who decides on which kind of payment he takes, of course, according to his ability. If the debtor is not creditworthy for the wars, then the bank won't give him the war, that's understood. There are probably MPs among you who may not know the difference between war and annuity, because there is a large number of citizens who do not know, among other things, because banks generally offer only anunities. The difference between war and annuity is very important. First of all, the difference is the price of the loan. If a 30-year loan is taken in the wars, such a loan will be about 15% cheaper than an annuity credit. Why? Because it's always paying off the same part of the principal and because the interest falls towards the end of the payment. And in such loans, the wars are at first high and fall towards the end of the payoff. So not everyone can take that kind of credit. But anyone who's creditworthy should be allowed to pay off in wars if it's worth it to him. So it doesn't make sense for banks to make more money than possible. And I'm going to think more about whether I'm going to give these amendments to these three first proposals that haven't passed, and about this fourth proposal, which let's just put it through conditionally, which is accepted. However, banks need to be bound, not just written that wars and anunities are possible. So, the banks need to make a commitment to that. However, despite whether you accept my amendment or my amendments or not, I will support that law, I believe it is necessary. And the Live Wall and the SNAGA club still has doubts whether a complete club will support it, so now I'm leaving a pay phone to my colleague Bunjec, who will explain some of the things he saw and which may not be the best solution in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41405	Thank you. Here's your esteemed colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41406	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Alexic. The living wall will also most likely support this law, because there is no point in opposing it, regardless of what it represents some kind of mouse bite in this whole problem. But I'd like to break this law a little bit so the public knows better what this is about. First of all, I would like to go to page 9. And it clearly states that the main intention, therefore demographically to improve the demographic picture of Croatia, is that in 2015, the number of displaced persons from Croatia to abroad was 36% higher than compared to 2013, while in 2015 42% more moved abroad than in the previous year, 42% of people moved to Germany. Therefore, it is evident that the number of evicted persons from Croatia is increasing dramatically year by year. Also, for some time we have witnessed a growing number of live births in the Republic of Croatia, and a small number of children and families. According to the State Statistics Institute data and according to the 2015 Statistical Report, a decline in the number of live births was reported by 5.2% in 2014 and for a total of 2063 children. So I repeat the reasons for this law are primarily demographic. And the question arises as to how our government now, our ministry intends to reach out to this problem, or answer. So they offer subsidisation of loans within 4 years for several hundred families. So several hundred families in Croatia as we heard the fastest in the literal sense will be able to obtain a grant of housing credit. You should say it's far too modest. In Croatia, tens of thousands of young families have problems with housing and some 500, 700, so 1200 credit subsidies are only a cosmetic measure. On the other hand, according to some calculations, a family that receives a subsidized loan can get about 100,000 kunas of state resources at best. The question is, where are those 100,000 kunas going? Where are they going? I'll tell you where they're going. About two-thirds of these funds go to the bank for their interest, so they're given to the bank, not the family. So if there are 100,000 kunas to be given to families then let it be given to them in the form of one grants, one-time support to be paid back by the principal, not interest. 'Cause interest is the bank's profit. It is better to pay the interest of the bank when buying the property, and after 4 years the principal is reduced by a maximum of 5 or 6% of the loans. It would have been better if Minister Maric hadn't abolished his forgiveness from buying the first property since 1 January 2017, better if he hadn't introduced a real estate tax would have been more beneficial than with this law that is now being provided here. He mentioned that Djujic, in fact, wants to earn money in this way. Yeah, well, she's not even hiding it. So you have on page 10, it clearly says that by selling the houses and apartments in question, or building a house based on value added tax and real estate tax, the budget of the Republic of Croatia will earn 95 million kuna. So there's no secret. It'll make $95 million and give young families 17. Then what will he give? He's not gonna give anything, he's gonna make a living. That's the same logic I was talking about when it was the first reading, I gave you 100 euros, and you told me 100 kunas. It's that logic, like I'm in some kind of profit right now. And I didn't, it's the bank, and it's the government's budget. You need to tell the truth about this law. Citizens need to know, especially those young families in whom we are so pleased to swear that they are essentially getting nothing. They get what they give, but not in full, but in even smaller. So much for the government's generosity. What should also be mentioned here in the analysis of these articles, some sounds pretty good, an article, for example. If the family has a child, the payment period will be extended by 2 years, but the subsidy will be extended by 2 years, but only if the family has a child within the first 4 years when it is a subsidy. So if the family has a child later, there's no subsidy. Why not, say, a family if they had a child and after 10 years of using the credit, regain the right to a subsidy. So you're practically sending a message, as soon as you move into the apartment, if you want a loan subsidy, you have to have a child right now, as much as you planned, within the most urgent time frame, otherwise there's no subsidy. Furthermore, Art. 24, watch this, Art. 24 literally writes that if you don't pay just one single loan war, only one war, it says clearly, within a month of the end of payment, the credit is cancelled, and the bank has to repay all the funds subsidized to the state budget, be careful what speed it is. Say you got to subsidize 40, 50,000 kuna, one month you didn't pay, say, the boss didn't pay his salary on time, you were sick, you lost your job, anything, automatically comes to an end and you owe 50,000 kuna. So what's next? Followed by the execution, followed by the blockade, followed by judges, public notebooks, lost real estate, remained with the debts. It's such a short arm. So, according to Article 24, he's really extremely risky for credit users. And it's also a risky loan in itself because his minimum term is 15 years, so he's supposed to be 30 years old and someone who basically takes that loan, this credit, becomes in charge of life. And now we see what happened to those loans that were taken in the time of Eve Sanader in 2005, in 2006, 10, 12 years ago, these people are now in a very large number of cases losing apartments, losing real estate, it's very risky. And Ivo Sanader promised, remember, we'll subsidize your interest, we'll give you relief, we'll raise wages, the standard will grow, the GDP, we'll get into Europe, everything will be great and wonderful. It is easy to promise, but I think people like this need to land on the ground and simply realize that this solution does not solve the problem of living care for young families, especially the demographic restoration of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41407	Thank you. We have five replicas at the Alexic exhibit. First, she's the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41408	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic, I agree with your debate, especially with regard to anunities and wars, but I am interested in your opinion, and if you will support the law as much as most in this House, because we are pleased that citizens get at least something from this government, no matter what is more possible in this part, I am interested in your position on whether it would be more effective to give the subsidy at the beginning, means to citizens when buying real estate. This is what some countries have done, and on the other hand, I'm interested in your position on the issue of social censorship, which means the one who buys the apartment. So it can't be the same-oriented measure towards the one who has the average salary and the one who has the salary, I don't know 30, 40 thousand kuna. So our government does not do such shades and does not make such differences, our government, unlike developed countries, for example, Germany has such censorship, but in Croatia there is no such thing. And I'm curious what else you're saying about this is that at this point our citizens know that the measure and the law will go, they don't know when the tender will be called and there will probably be a variant of 8 to 8 and one minute of 1,000 applications, those who have already had this information, probably from the government, and they've prepared all the documentation, and the vast majority of those who apply, unfortunately, won't have the opportunity to apply for a loan, for a subsidy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41409	The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41410	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Maras you're right, a subsidy at first would be a better subsidy because it would reduce the principal, absolutely. This way of subsidisation was also mentioned by counterpart Bunjac when he spoke after me, so the subsidy at the very beginning would certainly reduce the principal and then the credit would be cheaper if the interest rates were favourable in such a loan, and that would have to be further defined. As far as this social censorship is concerned, I said the criteria are missing. It's just that, not just social censorship, but the criteria are missing. So it's going to be like, you're going to have to be the man Usain Bolt to raise a loan that's not good, so they're going to fall the criteria. Unfortunately, that is not what has been considered and there are no criteria. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41411	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41412	A fellow Alexic you told in a way... the credit granted without criteria is not good and that it is according to you and that other colleagues have noticed in fact who faster to the girl his girlfriend, means without any criteria or we will call him perhaps a revolver law means Doc Holliday, who sooner pulls the gun he will get that loan. However, counterpart Bunjac and all warned of a very important matter and counterpart Panenic that when going with these subsidies, then the whole area of the Republic of Croatia needs to be looked at. Indeed, we have one demographic extinction of two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia. I'll just give you a few examples. In the last 20 years, the Imotian landscape with 50,000 people has come to 30,000 inhabitants, Cetinska krajina from 70 to 48, Drniš is almost dying, the Knin region is almost extinct, the Sibenik hinterland, the Zadar Straight Wheels. So these subsidies should be targeted, and we have huge meanings for large villages that have empty residential facilities, schools that have infrastructure, and we continue to encourage young people to move out because they will certainly ask young people to go where kindergartens, health services are located. In fact, we encourage these subsidies for people to have nothing to do with the verse of the end. And it is very important for the legislator to keep an eye on space in all other future laws. It's not just the country. It's the people in that territory. In this way we essentially emigrate these areas, Slavonia, not to speak and remain empty households and empty hearths. Which would be exactly if there were to be a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41413	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41414	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I agree. Well, it's just about the criteria and one of the criteria should be that it's about the end that's not settled enough. A new initiative may also be needed to launch a government project that would deal with these areas and where perhaps no one else would have the right to such a kind of subsidy rather than to end up a better settlement. However, this cannot be resolved solely by lending, but other measures must be taken there, employment measures, for people to get a desire to come to such an end of life. Because you really do what you do. Passive landscapes are becoming more passive, we have large areas that are uninhabited and it is not good and it will help further to make Croatia disappear in some way, unfortunately, and we need people. We're gonna have to settle the looks of people in Africa, that's what the Dutch did, maybe that's how we can fix a little blood count, maybe it's not a bad idea either. However, it is a much better idea to try domestic people to work here so that they can live here and can make their families and their love and their lives come true here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41415	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Alexic and you and your colleague Bunjac spoke about the dramatic increase in the migration of our young people from Croatia. And I get that, and it's really alarming. To keep young people in Croatia, they need a job and they need housing. And what I remembered, and so did fellow Bull, when you said who faster his girlfriend. Now here's the thing that stings me the most in everything. I don't want to be a critic, and I've always been a builder, and in any case I'm going to be for this law, and every step forward is a good thing. But what's stuck in my eyes here and it's not fair to me, that's first of all this amount, 17 million kuna. I think it's far too small. When we talk about incentives in agriculture, I will not compare agriculture at all and the migration of housing, then we say that in this envelope for 2017 we have 370m euros for agriculture, plus 320m euros for rural development. So we have 700 million euros for agriculture, and we can talk about these incentives in agriculture that they ended up everywhere, that they were just sort of just money laundering. That's what you said exactly who first his girlfriend, these 17 million kunas is far too small. That's gotta increase. Secondly, what I don't understand is, younger than 45 years old. I don't know I'm a little over 45 years old but for a long time I don't consider myself young, and half of these parliamentary deputies here go into that category under 45, we want to get residential co-financed loans. I think that border is way too high. And third, it's said of the first real estate or if the house or apartment is sold. It's the same vague thing I can't agree with, it would have to be for the first real estate. Because if we have a 50-square apartment, let's get some more government-subsidized loans to buy a 100-square apartment. This isn't working for me, this isn't working for me, and there's a little bit of something that, here's absolutely what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41417	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41418	Thank you, Vice President. Well, this is the situation. As far as the criteria are concerned, I've already said that the criteria have to exist, unfortunately they're gone, and that's why what's going to happen is that someone who maybe doesn't need too much, can even get to the apartment without subsidies. As for the one who is faster, his girlfriend, unfortunately it is so but the government can monitor what it will look like and can then, in line with the dynamics of such loans, see that it still increases that amount from 17 million to more. I don't think that's impossible because the state budget will be charged through the purchase of these apartments and houses, so this amount can be increased according to the dynamics of how it will go in the future. So I appeal to the government to monitor the situation and preferably increase the amount that is now 17 million kuna, to increase it and to help other families to reach their apartments that will thus wish to reach their apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41419	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Alexic, you've really talked a lot about lending here. And there's one topic that I think is very important to young families and that's safety. The certainty that they have measures that they know will take a long time, and that's what I have to admit, and we don't give because from certain calls to calls, from a certain government to a government, we're changing the way and the attitude towards housing at all. We also have this problem of lending that has historically passed different paths in Croatia. I have to admit that I was at the moment I started working, I really had a chance to raise a loan, and then the situation was, it was years ago that when we paid off the last loan war that it was about to be worth a little more than bread and milk because that was the relationship. And so there was crediting behind it and it showed how much trouble it had. This measure is a measure for those who can pay the loan. So this is not only for those who will come first, so first, but what was said here, but the measure applies to those who are financially able to repay the loan war and we must not forget it. Therefore, the measure refers to those who can and cannot. And the problem is always with the housing of those who can't. And therefore, if we really want to have demographic measures, if we want to ensure that young people, that this is not a reason to leave Croatia because there are a number of reasons, then we need to provide the whole leprechaun and for those who can't pay for the loan because they will remain uninhabited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41421	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41422	Thank you, dear Vice President. I certainly agree with you, colleague Mrak Taritash, that complex measures are needed, that all resolution ministers should sit at the table with experts and take the necessary measures so that people have employment, have security, have legal certainty above all. I must now point out that there is no legal certainty in Croatia in the right sense of that word. Here's a recent case of collective court ruling in the case of Franak, where 200 thousand people are damaged by illegal increases in interest rates and so far all 10 of them have received illegal overpaid interest back because courts need time to decide, there will be a questionable case law because one court will make such decisions, the other one. And there is a legal uncertainty for people who have already raised loans and these loans have been negotiated in an illegal manner. Therefore, in all these situations where the rights of Croatian citizens are massively violated, the state needs to sit at the table and find certain solutions and also solutions related to economic measures, without it there is no forward for us and without it any such controversial and ad hoc demographic measures will not help the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41423	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41424	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my dear colleague, Alexic, I agree with you that citizens should have a choice in the model of raising credit whether in wars or in annuities. Of course, in wars it's always better because that part of the subsidy would have been more about the principal than it would have been, and the principal would have paid more. However, it was left at the choice. But I'm afraid that what you didn't mention is one important thing that also applies to kuna or credit in the currency clause is the prescribed effective interest rate. I fear that at this maximum effective interest rate we will not be able to obtain bank offers, and this will be seen in accordance with Article 10 and the terms of the contract, nor the loans in the wars, because the market speaks credits both in kunas and those going to wars is an ever-increasing interest rate. But it remains to see the same fixed interest rates. Whether this maximum effective interest rate will allow certain banks to offer citizens a fixed interest rate. We know that in the last few years through APN and certain whether or not credit arrangements or housing savings or banks had the option of choosing a fixed interest rate, even with a currency clause. So I agree there's room left here. The question is whether by prescribing these strict conditions, we could even get partners on this project if we insisted on that interest rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41425	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41426	Thank you, dear Vice President. You're kind of right, but you're kind of wrong. Namely, I know of a bank that would certainly offer such loans. It's H.P.B. So she would certainly offer such loans, and then if the other banks saw that she offered HPB, they would have to offer them, so it was after the conversion, I have an example from the practice where the interest rates were 5.6% before the conversion, after the conversion of CHF credit, HPB first began to offer kuna loans at 5% interest rates, and now these kuna loans are already 4% at 5 years. So it's possible, it's not true that you can't. On the other hand, the kuna is stronger than the euro. Not much, but stronger. Therefore, and the past shows that kuna is a stable currency, relative to the euro and not true, it is actually a fall under the influence of the banking lobby, and their spins that claimed that something could not be done, but as soon as one bank moves into such an activity, then it is shown that it can. So it is possible, with even the interest rate being determined by 0.2 percentage points more in the case of a kuna loan because more than that should be no more. 0.2 percentage points are sufficient but I must note that at this point, there are almost no differences between interest rates in kuna and euro loans in some banks. They're almost the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41427	Thank you. Now we will have the replicas of the presentation of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec. And the first came to the attention of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41428	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, in your debate, you mentioned two of the greatest winners of this law. One is the state budget that will generate 95 million kuna and the other are financial institutions that will borrow money and get more of the subsidy than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will get. So, only after these two users, also the law, come the citizens of the Republic of Croatia which I think is unacceptable. I think the greatest benefit of this should be for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that there is nothing the state budget can earn from those whom you would like to help demographically and keep in the Republic of Croatia, means 95 million kuna, but on the contrary, should be helped, if it does not help to remain on what was before the process itself. And that's why I'm asking you here, and my amendment will personally go into that, that you've been bought by this law of VAT exemption. It would be direct assistance to Croatian citizens, 25% of the value of the apartment. So why don't we do it? Those who report under this law should be free of VAT payments. VAT 25% cheaper apartment, concrete immediate assistance, the state loses nothing because it is money that should still be incomed, but thus leaves the citizens of the Republic of Croatia more likely to come to a cheaper settlement of the housing issue. Here, will you support such a proposal from me to make in the form of an amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41429	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41430	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, of course you need to make complete solutions. It is not the goal of the demographic restoration of 500 families, but the goal of demographic reconstruction should be to help all families who need help. What you said about making banks and making the state budget, so let's imagine the situation that I'm giving you 17 kunas, and then you 95 and I say look, I'm representing Maras, I gave him something. So that doesn't make sense. Because you gave me more than you took from me. And that's what our country wants to present as some kind of generosity and concern. It would be logical, the state could boast that she gave 95 million kuna, and she received 17. And then we could say, look, the state gives something. They're citizens of winning. This way it all looks more like some kind of ash spill, we've abolished the first real estate tax, we've introduced a real estate tax, and now we have to give something to create an illusion that we didn't skin the citizens naked. I will support your amendment to get rid of VAT payments, and perhaps one of the ideas could be that young families don't have to pay that property tax, to free them from paying real estate taxes, that's a new tax, there's no mention of who's going to pay the real estate assessment, who's going to pay the soleization of the contract, who's going to pay the cost of processing the credit. There's no mention of what if someone can't pay, give and they'll have to pay the exit fee. In the end, it's going to turn out so that the citizens are actually going to be left with nothing. That's what the basic problem is, and I repeat once again, he's actually not going to solve the demographic image that he originally wrote about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41431	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have also seen that the state will earn on this scale, and in fact I spoke in my first reading and this morning in my debate, it is true that this is an instant law for one-time use that has been created to cover up the damage done to Croatian citizens, by abolishing the tax on the first real estate. And this law is full of inequality, so other than being limited, which will be used by a limited number of users, which are limited funds, is full of indifference. Let's just say, I'm curious about how a family that has no housing problem now and has, say, a husband, a wife and five children, so they're 7, they can buy an apartment of a maximum of 66 square meters under this law. Is 66 squares enough for a seven-member family? It's not. This is also the law of full disclosure and shows, in the right sense, the policy of this government, and this was mentioned here just before this law lacked criteria, and so did you, and that there is no social censorship. There's a social censorship here, exactly the HDZ as it was on the tax reform that the rich were getting more, and the poor were getting nothing here either. Anyone with a higher salary can borrow a 15-year loan with a bigger war and the state will pay him 50% of the subsidies more money. One who has a lower salary must take a longer-term loan to have a lower war because it has to be a third of his salary. So, the one with the 7000 kuna will receive a subsidy of 1,500 kuna, the one with the salary of 15000 kuna will receive a subsidy of 6, 7 or 8000 kuna. And that's it. HDZ always gives those who have more and those who have less give less.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41433	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41434	Thank you very much, Reverend Djujic. We won't be too innovative if we claim that this government is constantly courting banks. Here's what we had between us and that concession law, we had an expropriation law, now we have a loan subsidy law. So, it's always going to be given to banks because it's thought that I don't know what Croatia is going to get, and we can see it won't. We see that, according to the standard of living, we have fallen to the last place in the EU, that we are the leading country in the EU, and that in fact such a policy should, therefore, change systematically and completely. Let's say in neighbouring Hungary we have a situation where a currency clause has been abolished, that all loans in Swiss francs have been cancelled, we have a situation for young families to be granted subsidies of €250,000. Now imagine that we have such a situation in Croatia, so only to implement these measures that I have just mentioned would Croatian families move to get out of the state of 250,000 kuna? Would you go so young to Germany? No, you wouldn't. And what are we doing? We simply instead of following positive examples from our nearest neighborhood, here we are subsidizing loans for a few hundred families under unclear criteria that eventually it will even happen that these families will not only make any concrete profit, but may also lose these properties and remain in debt. Of course, it is inevitable to mention yesterday sending soldiers to NATO operations. Hungary didn't send them, and we sent them wherever we needed them. It shows the difference between politics when it comes to the interest of large-scale capital, i.e. when it comes to the interest of citizens. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41435	I'd ask my colleagues to stick to the subject. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41436	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I fully agree with your exposure and I think it's all so close that our young people who should take a loan would initially get some benefit and those 100,000 kunas that are spoken of I'd rather accept that he refuses from his initial principal, to reduce the principal. However, there is another problem. We haven't realized from the draft state to the day that we're living on credit, the whole state. We still don't know how to pay back our loans that the state has owed over all these 25 years, that we have 300,000 people already under wraps, that tomorrow we're going to have 100,000 young people who will come under wraps if they raise a loan to 30 years. As an entrepreneur, I would advise them not to borrow for 30 years. So we don't know in five years how our companies are going to work. The problem, however, is that every year we want to put away one government of any kind. I know that the SDP did some good things or bad things, but the HDZ should now continue to raise to some to be a GDP not 2.9, that in 5 years, in 4 years it should be 5. When we do that, then we can tell our young people to raise your loans, the state has agreed, we are returning our loans, lightly state-owned. It's interesting that we keep going, offering, and everything we've offered, we've knocked down all 25 years. Not to tell my Slavonia where the farm is closed down to hundreds. At the end of the youth if you want cheap houses, come to Slavonia, you will take 10, 20, 30 thousand kuna and 100 thousand kuna immediately buy the house and you can live. But what are we going to do? Now let's take down this government this year and we'll go back to the election, and next year we'll look again for elections. Now, that's us gentlemen here who want to crash all the time. Let's do something. GDP is growing, tourism is going well. I see agriculture well. So let's work. and I advise young people not to take up credit for 30 years because in 10 years, what and what will be the situation in Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41437	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41438	Thank you, dear representative Misic. So I agree with you in this part where you said it was better to pay off the principal than interest. So I repeat again. One small calculation. If the house costs 50,000 euros and the state has 10,000 euros to give, it better immediately when buying the house that 10,000 euros and, therefore, the principal is reduced by 20%. In this way, the state will give 10,000 euros, but the principal will not be significantly reduced, but most of that money will go to credit institutions first and foremost to banks. As for your claim that people are doing well in Croatia, I'm afraid I don't see it. I think that in Croatia people have good salaries that they should not borrow at all, nor subsidies on loans. They would simply, buy these houses like our parents used to, save, find some models, build out of wages, sometimes people would build houses out of wages and equip them, and today they would need lifelong responsibilities for people to have a house. As for your claim that tourism is going well, it also doesn't stand. There's 2,000 seasonal workers missing in the Dubrovnik coast. How do you make up for it? Why? People went abroad, and those who stayed behind just don't want to work, so who would work all summer if they had to sleep in a shed without air conditioning, for some salary, three, four, five thousand kunas, and they had to work 14 hours a day. Also, the caterers, here after this tax reform, are famous, some restaurants have closed down, earnings are smaller, the grey economy has increased. Croatia earns from tourism about 10 billion euros, and France that has no warm sea... 600 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 600 billion. The city of Vienna earns more than the entire Adriatic coast. How can we say that our tourism is going well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41439	Thank you. Now we're going to go to the next Club of Representatives, and that's that SDSS on behalf of which will speak the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41440	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Construction, colleagues and colleagues. In this second reading, I will clearly express our view of this bill, because I said so in my first reading. So, and then we said that we would support this proposal initiative for the simple reason that we think that in this situation, when we do not have, especially a consistent housing policy, any attempt to help at least some segments develop housing policy is an acceptable attempt for us. We are mostly a population that has gone through one bad period and where we have felt what it means to take away apartments, take away tenant rights and run out of apartment, no roof over head, as a basic existential question, so any initiative that will enable someone, including young people, or any other age category to be housing, is an acceptable initiative. Of course, this model is not an ideal model. That's what we said in our first reading. It is not ideal for the simple reason that it is obvious that it is a target group, a narrow group of people who will be able to consume the conditions of this law and by age and by property censorship etc., but the key thing is that loans of residential, long-term loans can only be raised by people who have a decent apartment and a working relationship and a decent security salary, and there is little. I'll remind you, and we've been saying that there's a problem in the working legal sphere, which we through our legislation prefer a working relationship for a certain time. Data speak, and I'm going to repeat 87% of the forms of working relationship, is a working relationship for a certain time. This is what we've produced here by our legal proposals some time ago, and now we have the fact that someone who works, which corresponds to employers, someone who works for a certain time, can't consume these rights. Therefore, neither can parliamentary representatives, someone who is in office in 4 years, give no guarantee to the bank that they can borrow, therefore this is the privilege of those lucky people who work in certain state services and have a secure working relationship and have a secure salary, so this is, in my opinion, a law of limited action, limited reach, but what is there. In our first reading, we highlighted two things as two objections. We see that this is not accepted, and I'm sorry that you didn't, which is not a better conversation. So, between all the criteria that can be pollemized whether 45 years is a good age limit or should be reduced to 40 years, it's a matter of looking at things, however, Article 19 and 20 are a key thing for me. The methodology of how to get the chance to compete is very clear. And that's what some people here pesoriously called, the faster the girls, his girlfriend. It doesn't have to be that way, but it's the fact that those who report to the open competition in time will compete, which will open a certain deadline. Whoever shows up outside that contest doesn't apply for the right of this law sooner or later. So we said that these criteria should be extended with some social components, as colleagues have already said, without being a basic condition of speed that you will prepare for credit documentation and speeds to react to the competition, because we know that various banks behave differently, that we do not all have the same credit rating, we know that those who go to banks with more expensive real estate, that they will get a solution of the paper rather than those who go with the property. Therefore, this matter should have been considered and then you received, then you sent us an answer, that our proposal is not accepted because it says this, the proposer is of the opinion that the introduction of other criteria other than the envisaged legislative proposal, such as the determination of the appropriate size of the housing units of the amount of personal income, the different benefits compared to the number of household members or the professional arrangement or some other criteria, would lead to an increase in the documentation, and thus the costs incurred by citizens with the prospect of unequal position of applicants. So the fact is that we're going to increase the documentation, there can be no argument that these criteria are not defined. A man doesn't go into the process of collecting documentation, so whether he's going to have one piece of paper more or less, it doesn't matter, but it's important that we are criteria for selecting these thousands of lucky people who are going to have this privilege of winning a subsidized war we have led under some criterion that is easier to defend and which is more logical and which has more social components than is said. That's why I'm sorry we got this answer and this kind of attitude about this thing. The other thing is the matter of economic nature, the financial foundations of this legal solution. The colleagues have already said, and we have pointed out, we have so far had as a permanent measure we have had a tax exemption on the first real estate and we have abolished it. We think it's bad because this permanent measure has now proved in some financial calculations that the state has been incomeming or will be incometing 115 million kuna. And at the same time with this law where it is predicted to subsidise the purchase of thousands of residents will be invested 17 million kunas, it will be taxed and, as already said somewhere around 97 million kuna, that state will be in plus. So it will earn by abolishing the first tax exemption measure on the first real estate of 115 million, now with this it will earn 97 million which is quite legitimate and fine, the budget must be charged. And if this will boost the real estate market, it is expected that the state, or budget, will benefit from that. I absolutely support it. But what I'm saying is we had a proposal that precisely from this mass of funds from those hundreds of millions of kunas created by taxing the first real estate would strengthen this category and not be an ad hoc measure now for this year but simply create one perspective if we really want to help young people form their families with certain housing security to be one measure in continuity. And that was our second objection, and we said that this should be a more permanent measure, and you replied that this proposal is not accepted and that the funds from the removal of the first real estate tax should be invested in this measure for the reason that the analysis of the results achieved after the prescribed deadlines for submitting applications to citizens by 31 July 2018 may make a decision on the possible justification of the extension of this deadline. It makes sense in that explanation of yours and let's keep it that way and then let's keep the ministry for some kind of word and let's say if we create a mass of money, useful money, let's talk about having this deadline extended in 2018. If that's the case, and you're probably more invited to talk about it than I am, then I can accept it. As for colleagues who warned about the risks of credit relations, we all went into loans, and we all decided on our own will whether to enter a certain credit risk or this credit risk. Each credit has its own good and bad sides, the dangers we see are quite large as long as the loans are longer, so we cannot challenge this initiative with the fear of any credit risk because anyone responsible will assess whether it can participate in that credit risk and whether it has an interest to participate or not. The third thing I'm saying is here is the opportunity I'm going to take to warn the ministry, and that's the last time I said it, and I'd ask you to pass it on to the minister that there's one category of citizens that we haven't finished and we're not going to finish it if we continue this way for another ten years, and these are the former homeowners. We also have some obligations and some sort of natural thing to do to finish somewhere around 2760 apartments should also be provided to former tenants of household law. And now it's... it's unfair when we talk about finding some opportunities to buy something on credit with benefits, and not taking into account that there's one category of people who had apartments, who built these apartments by detaching some housing funds in some time, so once they bought it, now they don't have the opportunity to buy what they built because they either didn't make decisions to buy those apartments or they're such that they're very unfavourable. So some of the etalan values of individual apartments even reach 900 euros per square metre, which is unacceptable for me. And when all the bonuses are placed, they reach 500 euros per square square, which is still too much price for the purchase of former tenants' apartments. I would pray that the move is by a resolution minister, you can do so by one act of the minister and allow people to simply close the problem of former tenant rights holders in the Republic of Croatia. And because of external legitimacy, and also because of some sense of equality of citizens in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the use of living space. So we will support this proposal, we think that he is what he is, likely through life to suffer certain changes of criticism are possible. I would like all thousands of young people to consume this right and to build a family for themselves, not to go to Ireland if this is some kind of prerequisite for that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41441	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41442	Dear colleague Horvath. I listened very carefully to your discussion and I like that you have strongly stressed and reiterated the fact that this loan will be able to compete for it only those 10% of young people who do not work for a certain time. It's a terrible fact that 90% of young people are employed for a certain time, so they can't apply for credit in some bank practice. So what's the point of a loan offer like this? Isn't that just one sign of this government to be told to the public, here we take care of people? Isn't 17 million kuna symbolic? So we have 12 billion kunas every year to pay interest to the banks, I repeat 12 billion kunas. If we were to refinance the loans as I suggested, we could share those apartments for nothing, not to talk here, you see we're already discussing the 2nd, 3rd time of residential lending. And another thing you pointed out, so here's the subsidized interest rate, but you're going to pay sales tax on the first real estate. So what's the use of this here? And what's interesting is you all say I'll support this law at the end. Well, because it would be politically and publicly unpopular to say I'm not gonna support this law, you know. I mean, we've become hypocrites here, you know. That's what this is about. Young people realize what they're talking about and they know that there's no significant benefit out of this because we also have an encouraging apartment building, this is project 2, 3. So this is spilling the hollow into empty space. Young people will move on. And my final question is, do you, Mr Horvat, Agent Horvat, think this has any significant impact on solving the acute problems of young people in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41443	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41444	Thank you, dear colleague Lovrinović. So, I'm starting from the end, so I don't think this is going to, it won't be a significant impact on what's being said in the explanation as the main goal, and it's going to improve both the demographic image or that it's going to stop the departure of young people. So I come from Eastern Slavonia, from Baranja, so from Osijek. My city of Osijek right now, maybe someone will blame me or not, I don't know if there's under 70,000 inhabitants, all that went out. Of course, the offer for the guaranteed purchase of thousands of housing units across the country is a drop in can solve that problem. If the problem does not begin to be resolved systemically. This is such a good one, I see it as a good attempt to offer something on the market. The question is whether to sell these thousands of units at all, whether to find people who are willing to go into new credit relations, who have such a comfortable situation in life that they can borrow, who are safe, etc. I've experienced it that way, and that's why we'll support it because it can't hurt. That it would bring some great benefit in preventing a demographic disaster will certainly not. Society must seriously consider the next steps when it comes to the problem. And I'm just going to help some kind of parallel, I said in the introduction that it's serious, that it's a serious strategy for housing policy. I'm gonna pull only one parallel, maybe it's not comfortable to hear or not, it doesn't like it, but definitely in the past system they said that the nadal housing policy was 400,000 housing units the society built and divided people and they're doing it without these kind of offers pretty cheap and they're using it today. So society has to have one bigger housing policy than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41445	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41446	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Horvat, you mentioned that even politicians, or parliamentary deputies, cannot use subsidized loans, but I am obliged to correct you a little bit. Namely, we had a recent president of the Croatian Parliament who used the APN's subsidized loan in the amount, with only 3% interest. Well, of course he's not crazy about taking a state loan per interest of 3.75 if he can get 3. means much more favourable than what is now being offered to young families. Of course, he used his right to do it. It doesn't matter what was removed a few months ago, I'm sure he could use it. Such a loan could also be paid by a citizen who, for example, works for a much smaller salary. Apart from former Parliament president, we also have Minister Maric, who also took a nice subsidized loan from the HBOR where he was on the supervisory board. The same interest is paid only 4%. You took a million 250 thousand credits. Although he has this money in his account, he took credit and therefore took advantage of his position, as we see no sanctions, he does not have any particular concerns, etc. We have a case of the CNB administration that took the same subsidized loans they even assigned to their 335 employees. Those other than subsidizing loans subsidize their own postgraduate studies, subsidize their foreign language courses. Of course, their debate is in no way of interest, not the ones who will stand in line to get the state's loan, they have already solved their situation in terms of credit and housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41447	Thank you. The answer of the honourable representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41448	The esteemed colleague of Bunjac each has his own experience, I don't know this information that you know and I know that when you come to the bank and they see that you've been elected for a certain period of time in office that then a certain reserve is shown and then asked yourself, and what happens after that, if you guarantee that you will be able to repay. Therefore, this is it, I said that these benefits under this law will be able to consume mainly those young people who have this happiness and the privilege of working on permanent jobs, and these are mainly public service jobs, which are indefinitely defined by their definition of contractual and which have a constant monthly salary. And that's it. And it's this one target group of people, a narrow group of people who will have the privilege of using it. And all this other stuff you said, it's possible that it's true, I don't have that kind of knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41449	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Horvath, you spoke of the limitations of this law and said that there are no criteria in this law. That's not true. The criteria are credit capability, and the amount of pay, so the higher the salary, the higher the credit capacity, the greater the incentive and the criterion is speed. Fastest finger. Those people are gonna get loans. I am very pleased that this law has come to this debate, because this law fully exposes the policy of this government. This government's policy since day one. And that's after-thinking policy because this law is a reaction to abolishing the tax exemption from first real estate, so then the government remembered some measure, so it prompted it quickly, it's a policy from hollow to empty because here we have already established that the state on these incentives will earn more than it will give. So this law has a whole series of disadvantages and restrictions that you were just talking about, which is that it doesn't apply to everything equally, to limit the number of loans regardless of where this property is located, whether it's in Slavonia or in Pula, are not the same prices for the property of 66 squares in Vinkovci, I don't know, Umag, Rovinj, etc. that only young people up to 45 who are fastest and not all of them can use it. This is the Superhik policy of this government because this measure, like all measures so far, gives more to those who have more, and those who have less, or very little and says one wise politician once: "It does not snow to cover the hill, but snow to show the beasts tracks," this law is snow, and beasts are known who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41451	The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41452	Dear fellow, I am not inclined to such sharp qualifications as the hill-snare and Superhic policy, etc. I think everyone is trying to be responsible for doing their job, and so are the promoters, so the people in the ministry try to be responsible when they suggest something. It's a matter of perception of the problem. Your perception is like that, my perception is kind of different. I was saying no ok criteria, criteria are prescribed, but I was talking about how the methodology, how to select the accession requirement should be strengthened with certain social components, and I am sorry that our proposal has been rejected by the promoters. I hope that practice will show that we were right and that it will have to change these criteria very quickly with what we have proposed if we want to implement this thing in a real and correct way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41453	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41454	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, I've reported for a replica for one reason that all morning through this assembly is going through something that simply isn't true. The biggest tragedy is when laws that have been in force in the Republic of Croatia for 20 years have been interpreted differently by some provisions for Croatia's entry into the EU, which have been voted today, declare that this is not good, etc. So, as far as real estate tax is concerned, from the introduction of VAT into the Republic of Croatia for new real estate only, but the quota part of the building land is paid by real estate tax, and the full construction part is paid by VAT and by citizens who bought the first real estate were not released, they were released only from this real estate tax relating to construction land. With Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia has pledged to introduce a 25% tax on construction land in accordance with EU directives, and in the end it was also in the SDP, HNS, Kukuriku coalition programme, which is something simple that we have taken over. Therefore, the introduction of VAT on construction land, does not cost that property tax when buying new real estate, remains a real estate tax exclusively on the traffic of used real estate among citizens because citizens who do not have the right to deduct VAT rates. Therefore, tax on, if we want to talk about the need to free the purchase of the first real estate tax, it can only be for traffic among citizens. And here all the time, there's something that just isn't true, a law that's been voted by this tall House and that's practically been applied in Croatia for 20 years. Real estate tax is paid exclusively, but the quota part of the building land relating to that property is far from what is said about the rate of 25% because the rate of 25% for one property is practically almost 21% and some more than the total value of the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41455	Thank you. Thank you. Replication response, colleague Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41456	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. This would be good to hear, here's something learned from the position of the profession and I'm glad we can get such a quality explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41457	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, distinguished counterpart Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41458	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives and representatives of the ministry. Well, the Croats are famous for loving property, and we like to have our own property. So, of course, it's also in the residential part and then it's time for us to have problems with what was being created, so today we have 1,000 and 1,000 houses of 200, 300 square meters where one or two inhabitants live in both cities and villages. This law is the main thing to say, the sign of wanting to work on a demographic restoration. And now that I'm talking on behalf of our club about this law, I have to say that this must be one step that will help those who create a new family, who are young people, who want to reach their own living space to get to it under more favourable conditions. He's meant for that category of people. Other categories need to be dealt with by some other laws and should be watched in this way. But now I'm asking a question here if we're talking demographic restoration to whom this law is actually intended? Is the family based on the marriage of a man and a woman the basis of a demographic restoration? Did we turn this law far enough in that direction? Do we want this law to stimulate young people, women and men to marry, to have children and to create, to build their nest, to secure their living space? I am asking here a little clarification from the Ministry's representatives to clarify it because these terms that stand here, I am not quite sure that this applies only to that part, because we know that we have some laws and we know that we have had a referendum, we know that Croatian citizens have set themselves up for marriage as a community of men and women. All I'm talking about is demographics. I don't have anything against anyone. No, I don't care at all who's doing what's behind his walls and how he's acting. I'm talking here about purely within that part that this is the law that's being passed to improve demographic renewal in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this law allows the purchase of a house, the purchase of real estate, the apartment. I think that, after a six-month follow-up, the ministry should make one analysis that would likely show that buying houses in rural areas, in rural areas, could be subsidized with a hundred percent interest, that the interest would be zero kuna there, that the state would subsidise total interest for buying a house in rural space. You know why? Because these properties are extremely cheap and they will in principle not make a greater cost to the overall financial package, and we will encourage the purchase of houses that are very large in these areas and the preservation of life in those areas. It won't be some boom, but it certainly can give a little incentive and can give a new, stronger stimulant to stay there and buy these properties with which people today don't know what to do. People always took out loans, always had to come back. Every subsidy is welcome, there is no dispute. But I think this is just one small step towards improving the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia in resolving housing issues primarily of younger people. There have been various ideas, suggestions and attempts in all the governments of the Republic of Croatia, but I think that there should be a little bit of all together to get even stronger, think harder, and that a process that needs to be started as soon as possible in order to start an investment cycle, to open up jobs, preserve primarily construction companies in the Republic of Croatia, and so that people can get to their first living space very easily and not attach themselves to it in a way that they can put a little string around their necks and that they can't go anywhere anymore. What am I talking about? I'm talking about today, at a time of great labour mobility, the need in different places should allow people to literally change the city they live in within 30 days without having a burden in that city where they lived that they have to pay credit for an apartment that they can no longer benefit from. So, I'm talking about subsidizing the construction of apartments to private entrepreneurs who would be exclusively for rent, for rent. And then, with local self-government, subsidize two, three, four, five years each of those young married couples, who will have children, who will live there to still subsidize their rent. Then we allow a man who doesn't know who lives in Križevci, gets a job in Split, practically picks things up, picks up a family and moves to Split. There he is waiting for such a similar apartment and he continues to live with his course and vice versa. From any city to any city. It's actually something that's ahead of us and that should be talked about a little bit more with the fact that I don't think it should be the state that's going to rent apartments, that's going to rent apartments because that's where the problems just arise except for the social problems of those people who have to take care of themselves because they don't have other options. But in this economic part and commercial part, I think that there is really a need to offer private entrepreneurship such an opportunity and that private entrepreneurship can give a very good answer. But in the end, these are examples of practices in developed countries that work very well and where there are no problems with that part. In this way it seems to me that, in fact, in the right sense, words would go into one process of creating conditions for the establishment of a family and that they would go into one process that young people don't have to have stomach cramps, that they don't have to after three, four, five months after losing one of them's jobs, they're getting a divorce, they're running to their old people in their homes, and they're practically breaking their families. Today we also have this process, unfortunately very present. Literally those commercials we hear on TV that some marriages last shorter than traditional weddings in Croatia are, unfortunately, present today. It's for me and our club actually, one approach and a view of the future of some kind of demographic policy in this part of solving the housing issue. In that case, if young people, the place where they can live without stomach cramps, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in 3, 5, 6 years, will buy themselves, if it wants some real estate in the place where they choose to live or not. Or he'll live like this. Of course they need to be protected, that they must not be in that part of the apartment, in such a way that someone can throw them out overnight, but that they have one real protection, a protective mechanism, which will make sure that in which they live in order to pay the rent, they are practically as if they are in their own. Here I will no longer continue here, with these few remarks, with these few proposals, we will therefore support this law, we ask nicely to make a single analysis of its effects after 6 months of its examples and to really appeal to the ministry, that this really be one small first step that has been taken to address the housing of young families, primarily with the aim of demographic restoration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41459	I would like to thank my colleague, Hrgo. Before we move on to replicas, and there are 5, only information, so today we will work without a break and after this item of the agenda we would do another final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Arrangement. They would continue their work Tuesday and work for the next three weeks, so by the end of this break by 15.7., they would be working every week from Tuesday to Friday. Since we have a very large number of points, we have to step up the work dynamics a little bit, and we've made one plan for next week, so every day we work 5 to 6 points, so let's cut this number from this 120 to some 40, 50 that we'd go into summer with. So I'm asking you to understand, from today on, we're already going to announce to you on Tuesdays which are going to be points, there will be five or six of them, and on Tuesday I'm going to announce to you Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, exactly what points we're going to do and we're going to work until we finish them every day. So sometimes we'll work maybe by 4:00 and sometimes by 10:00 in the evening. I'm asking you to understand, because a lot of points, a lot of suggestions, is a lot of things that have not been done in the past, and I think it's important that we do it, if we make it through the summer break. Also, I assigned my colleagues to Bucharest and made it look like every board president gets a list of points that are within the jurisdiction of his board and discuss them as soon as possible, so that we can do all the points, because there are quite a number of points, which have not passed the committees for no reason at all. Some committees have even 14 unscheduled points, and therefore I ask the committee presidents that as soon as possible, either early or today or early next week, call on committees, discuss all the points that are in their jurisdiction so that we can continue to work without delay, given that the committees will then do those points. Here's the information, we might do it again today through the day if there are more representatives, but the Secretariat of the Parliament will also report to all the clubs and committees on the tasks that need to be done. Thank you very much. And now we move on to replicas, the first colleague of Marin Skibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41460	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, Mr. Hrg, you spoke in a positive context about this law and that it is good for young people, but the question arises, which after 4 years, when the government stops subsidising these loans. We know that only 4 years will be interest rates up to 3.75%, but then there is a currency risk exposure area, i.e. interest fluctuations. The second thing is, there's a budget deficit in favour of bank profits. So it's been working for the benefit of private, foreign banks all the time. For what reason wouldn't the state offer young people state housing? And not to private banks, they always benefit from the laws that are passed in this House. It's said there's no money, we can only cover 1,000 families, so why, for example, would not introduce a measure of taxation of foreign banks, modelled by many countries in the EU, e.g. Hungary, Austria, etc. So all the time it goes down the hair of that foreign interest capital, so here's a little comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41461	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41462	Thank you very much. My fellow Skibola, I hope and believe there will be interest and less than 3.75 as it is now a slow state on the market, I believe it will come to this, but I said in my presentation, that this is just one small segment for that category of young people who want to buy an apartment and who are planning to do it anyway, and they would probably be raising loans anyway, if their parents didn't give them money or otherwise solve it, in this case they'll get a subsidy, they'll get 4 years, if they have children, they'll get another extended part, so they'll get one specific help, but it's just one small category of people. Generally speaking of everything else, I think that this should be resolved entirely and that it should primarily go in that direction to really prefer and especially stimulate the community of men and women as a marriage of young people who, of course, will have children and in that part should give additional incentives, so that in this segment that stands, I am talking about it in this part, that someone is helping the banks. I don't see any help here to the banks, I only see here that if I'm raising a loan as a young man now I get some help, if I help you I don't have to pay it all myself, the bank will get the same. So that part of your exposure is not quite clear to me, and I don't think it's well-versed. I think there's still a lot to be seen here that a man will pay less.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41463	Thank you. The second replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41464	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrg, you mentioned a soft topic in your presentation, which is that the Croats did not really save in shares or in gold or in jewels, they were saving in real estate. We will have in six months in the application of the Law on Local Taxes, and part of that law is real estate tax. And what we must also say is that no matter how many times it has been said that this property tax law is just a conversion of municipal compensation into it, it is not because two criteria have been introduced. One criterion is the age of real estate, and another is the estimated value of real estate. It means, in other words, that when someone buys a new apartment, they will pay more taxes than perhaps for an old apartment in a better location. It's the same way we look at it in the context of this law. I see the value of this law in the following fact, not in the fact that new properties will be purchased on the market but the fact that they allow for the purchase of existing properties, existing apartments and thus enable young people to buy more real estate to be reconstructed and thus solve their own housing issue because what was not said anywhere in Croatia as well as in Europe and in the world has changed. A 20-year-old average property for a two-member family, so two people were about 50, 55 square meters, today it's already 65 square meters, so things change. And I am also one of those who would like to have a beauty of other possibilities, and I would really like to have the opportunity in this respected home as soon as possible or to have the ministry start renting apartments as soon as possible because that is what actually allows young people flexibility, employment and all that they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41465	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41466	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Well, it is good that in this law it is possible to buy houses and apartments that already exist because there really is a lot on the market in Croatia, especially I said in rural areas. I'm personally sorry to repeat that it may not have been a small and deeper look so that it really went to this one zero interest rate, subsidising 100% of the interest on the property in rural areas, I'm saying maybe this is still the time of the ministry can and at the very least react to the vote of this law to do something like that because the budget wouldn't lose anything about it. Absolutely a property tax, today realistically not a topic in this law, but I must mention here that one of the foundations of the introduction of real estate tax that was also legalization with which today has a lot of problems. Those who had the money, who managed to do something, they kind of caught that train and they went well, to be clear, they went well because if they'd gone the legal way with all the permits, they'd have paid a lot more than all those who were legally building. So here it even went to the hands of those who were illegally building, but one good part of the people stayed out of it and today they didn't legalize, you see that there was also an extension of that deadline about again won't legalize because they simply don't have the opportunity to have the means. So the introduction of a tax that will be when it comes to that time then we'll talk about it. But in any case, I hope that this law will incentivise at least one part of what you yourself said is a more lively activity on the market of old existing properties that should be sold to which they should be moved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41467	Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41468	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a colleague of Hrg's, in your presentation, you've mentioned a lot of demography, and in fact this is one of the measures of demographic policy, but we all know that it's not, but it's actually a substitution for certain reliefs that exactly have been lifted because of the recommendations of the EU, but then let's not call it part of demographic policy because this is what is said here on several occasions, a measure for those who can pay or repay loans. The real measure of demographic policy that would not be directed in such a way that only for those who can pay loans would be to finally start the state, not just for the sake of analysis and to start real care about preschool education. And not that we have a situation today that we have 161 local units in the Republic of Croatia without kindergartens, that we have 96 local units that don't even have preschools even though it's mandatory, that we have about 50% of children in preschools, and we know that developed Western European countries have 90%, that kindergarten prices should be around 500 kuna, and we have a range of zero to more than 1,000 kuna, that we don't have a lot of kindergartenrs in kindergartens. So these would be measures of demographic policy aimed at all citizens regardless of whether they receive or do not have them. Croatia is still one of Europe's most socially impoverished societies. So what I'm going to conclude with is actually another law that we've only scratched the surface with, and unfortunately we haven't come to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41469	A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41470	Thank you very much. I can't agree with you that this law has nothing to do with demographic policy. He has connections to that category of people who will be able to use it. That's the way it is, of course. And never a single law in any country in the world will all be able to benefit equally under the same conditions. We can do that little demagogue thing right now, throw the flossules like that. Preschool education, so dear fellow you well know as the local leader that preschool education is the obligation of a local self-government unit. One of the basic obligations. I'm sorry, but I don't agree that in one part of the state in some parts of the country, in some units of local self-government, the state is concerned unless it's some special status that must then be such and that everyone else has to deal with it on its own. I'm sorry, then I'm being discriminated against. Then I have to pay for something that you don't have to pay for eventually. Or vice versa, it's not right. So this is the obligation of the local self-government unit to be one of the very important measures of demographic policy yes, yes. So I said myself in my debate that this is just one small, small, one small wheel in all of this and that definitely that wheel should be well, well rotated and that practically every law that will be passed must be directed towards that goal. Because he's the biggest problem here today. But in this way, let's say now one is the law, so it's not the law, so the other law will come, and you'll say it's not the law, so it's the third law, so it's not the law. All right, that's opposition business. I discussed it the same way you did a few years ago. It's a perfectly normal thing and it's the right opposition to discuss it like that. But let's face it, here's a colleague of Dark Tarritash's earlier, she said as an opposition, she says that in one part of the law, she has her own to say such a positive side. At least in one part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41471	Thank you. Next replica, dear fellow Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41472	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Hrg, I know this law has good intentions but it asks one question to those who brought it to see if they were far away. And why am I setting that up? Just before you said it, some of them went well in legalization. Yes, they are also perhaps a good thing done in the Croatian state. And I think everyone has to go well. All citizens of the Croatian state must never be privileged. As an entrepreneur, I never took out a loan, and I raised it in the end, only when I had something to sell so I could repay that loan. Why didn't I take the loan? Because I didn't trust the system. If we look at Agrokor and our top economists have been raising credits for 10% and borrowing Agrokor, I'm asking the same question as an economist did people even think about how to do it? Or it went on purpose to take down some kind of company that might be less rich today, actually much richer, wouldn't be in charge but would work. I view all this populistly in some way although I will support this law certainly demographics Croatia needs. What you said to rural development to buy a house for someone in Slavonia, or it doesn't matter, in Dalmatia, give that young couple a house. But what will they do? Well, we don't do a simple thing that we have to develop and go towards that path, but it's a process. It's a process. We can't handle it overnight, we sure can't solve it in a year, two, three, five. In five years, we can if we all put ourselves in one real sector, not to say how much we have, what we pay and the money we throw away. Here's a six-way bridge for 10 years, and where 200 million were thrown, and thank God we're going to solve it tomorrow and not say unfinished bridges, roads and everything else, which could have been better spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41473	Thank you, fellow Misic. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41474	Thank you very much. You speak as a real, rational man, a man who has always done so in life and in the economy. I'll say it like this now. I have a housing loan, I've never bought an apartment with tens of thousands of marks, and I've been paying regularly, neatly, like everyone else in the fund. So there's also been done by me one injustice to a large number of people. I made a loan with no six-seven percent interest, and today I'm paying it, and I don't mind, it was my decision. And until I pay him back, I won't be quiet. And I didn't lift as much as I wanted and how long it took than I could. And now that's the thing of that one part and accessing whether people are carrying themselves, so one wave takes them away, and then they actually cause problems later on. Our system isn't stable, I agree with you. It is not stable because it simply changes from night to night, changes from mandate to mandate, changes in mandate. Everyone comes with some new stuff, they're old as if they don't exist. It's something that's just ahead of us, we're still a young democracy, we learn, unfortunately, people get hurt in that part, people get hurt in that part, but I definitely believe that the moment and time will come for us to really get one stability on some major at least points so that people can live stable and safe. Today in the debates, much has been said about working indefinitely, on a secure job. So it's one of the fundamental things that has to be made possible for people to have a plan in life at all. So that we can plan a family so that we can get married, that we can have children, that's something we don't have in Croatia today. And in that direction, I think that one political climate is turning in that direction and that's exactly where it has to go. And this is one of the laws I believe follows, which are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41475	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41476	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, you mentioned the demographic component of this law here. And it may even be embedded, but I believe that it comes too late because we live in a country today that has 330 thousand blocked, which has an executive law as it has which is ruthless and which costs a lot to the one who comes under control. And I don't think that today's courage to take credit is everyone because we live and in a business environment that companies fail in a business environment that companies fail very easily, that there is no job security and that man will live and succeed in finding another job in this country. Since you mentioned this story about rural areas, you were the mayor of the town of Križevci who has a lot of rural settlements and you know what the situation is, that young people flee from these settlements, that there are a large number of houses that are abandoned and no one wants to go back to. Here's an example, from my county of Sisak-Moslavina, the road from Novska to Gradiška, the last village in Sisak-moslavina, Borovac, first in Brod-Posavina Bodegraj has over 200 houses to sell, not houses but properties but I ask you who will come to live in this rural area when there are no jobs, there is no work, there is no work anywhere near it? These people who would buy such a property that's practically so cheap, that it's more expensive 10 square feet of apartment than one property, they just don't have anywhere to work. Unfortunately, our people, especially young people, are more determined to rent an apartment in Germany, Ireland or somewhere in Europe where they have jobs and where they can live from 1st to 1st, and where they lose their jobs, they will find others and they will be able to pay off loans or rent, but today, regardless of what this law offers, I doubt that they have the courage to raise such loans and invest in such a job even though the state wants to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41477	Thank you, thank you very much. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41478	Thank you very much. My colleague Lenart, well, look, I'm sure one part of the people will be raising these loans. They'd also be giving credit if there wasn't this subsidy because they're certainly planning to solve their own life issue. That's why I talked in the debate about this mobility of labour, people's mobility and the need to allow people today to literally move to the city within 30 days to some other job, and that's why. And not to move from Croatia, but to be within Croatia. That's why I think it's one thing that's going to need a little more detailing, processing and going towards such legal solutions because I think it can contribute to the preservation of life in Croatia and the remnant of young people in Croatia. In rural areas today it's very difficult, of course to keep people because look, you have another situation here. If a young man has the option of choosing a job that lasts from 7 to 3, from 8 to 4, from 9 to 5, I don't know how much time, for some salary he thinks he can live on, or if he has some less estate, and even a bigger estate in the country than his parents, how many young people will stay on the property and how much will he go to work on a job that allows him to have some easier life anyway? Let's face it, I've just watched one show recently about a young man from Slavonia who just said these sentences that I'm talking about right now. So they're not mine. That said the young man who said look, there's a possibility, there's a choice, I choose where I think I'm better at that moment. If I don't, I'll pick something else. But anyway, why don't you let people like you want to buy even cheaper real estate in the country so if they decide to live there, they can live there?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41479	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. It's an esteemed colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Independent Representatives and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41480	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Prpić and Magas and Assistant Žamboki, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act is before us. And it is not unusual for such a single law to cause such a single debate in which a number of other topics are opened. The topics that are open to this law are, among other things, sustainable development, demographics which is one of the reasons for the explanation, which is with employment and construction, and when underneath all those topics that we have all talked about, what on behalf of individual clubs and what through replicas, underneath that denominator we can all put one fact and that is that in this country we need one systematicity and belief. So, young people want safety. They want employment security, they want housing security. Of course, we all, no matter how much we have doubts and it is evident that this law will be able to use truly those who are financially able to use it, we will support it for the simple reason that it is something that is offered and is better at nothing than nothing. But when we talk about demographics, the problem of demographics didn't arise yesterday. The problem of demographics has arisen much, much earlier. Long before people really moved out of certain particularly rural areas and went to cities, and then they went to bigger cities, and now that young people really have Europe at their disposal, they are flexible, they are going to Europe. And if we want to have a demographic problem, then when it comes to housing, we certainly need as soon as possible a project or story that is a residence in Croatia and what measures these are and there must be a series of different measures and a series of different projects. This is a project that is related to a particular group of people who can afford it. But indeed, on several occasions we talked about renting apartments. I have to say that in the government where I participated, we had a story at the time that there were 30,000, 40,000 unsold apartments on the Croatian market, when we started to analyze it, then it turned out that it wasn't. Equally, when we tried to figure out how many of those apartments had unsold banks, which could be leased, then it turns out that the banks had about 3, 4 thousand apartments and weren't ready to rent them along with the state, they were willing to sell it expensively to the state. When you talk a little bit, then, we're absolutely great for analysis. We analyze up to the last decimal, but when we need to make a synthesis, we have a little problem here. The same way when you analyze a little bit and you talk to young people, they generally say the following. They'd choose to rent, only that lease has to be safe. This lease must be in a way that those who give it to them will not be fired, it must be true and in a way that they are decent dwellings. And they're countless times said they're ready if they have extra money to spend on a trip, for schooling, and they want to solve their housing issue through rent. What's more, they said we'd inherit the property, we'd have the property from the parents. We even want to put parents in that rental, and go to the real estate of parents and there to start our family. Indeed I am sure that no matter who sits in this assembly whether it's on the left, on the right or on the centre is someone, so everyone could agree that there should be a series of measures in this country and that one of these measures is a rental. Is that a state lease? Is this a rental where we let investors build for rent? That should be considered, and it is indeed worth a debate, a round table, because that is how we can solve the problem of housing. The problem of housing when it comes to demographics is just one minor problem. He's a basic problem that's a job problem. So, young people, they don't even have a problem working on a specific one. The problem is that they have work to do and that they can be flexible in relation to the job they have. This was on several occasions about sustainable development. Sustainable development means that in all, thus simplified, no matter where you live, you must have about the same conditions for life. Of course work, life, social standard. I mean kindergarten, school and stuff. And then when you look at a little situation in Croatia, our children, whether they live in Slavonia, whether they live in the surrounding area, whether they live in Zagreb or on the coast, have about the same cell phones as we do here. It's smart phones, smart phones and everything. But the other ones don't have the same. They don't have all the plumbing, they don't have all the drains, they don't all have the possibility of going to school simply and there are a series of measures that the state needs to run and countries are really when you're looking historically and doing it. When you look historically, one of the great stoppers that was made there in '65, the sixth when the Adriatic Highway was made and in this way actually this one economic crisis that was in Europe and the world of then Yugoslavia, that is, Croatia that was part of it felt something less than it felt there was a new potential. One of the important things was the highway that went through Lika, and that way it's actually going to be the whole area of Like that that's empty. What you need to know and what we all know, that we have counties Ličko-Senj County has fewer inhabitants than one city quarter of Zagreb. It's a fact and it doesn't go better and you do, so that highway that went through Liku actually made it possible for Lika to be interesting, interesting to invest. You, too, when you start investing, when you start to make a job possible, then somebody's gonna settle in there. But I am sure that with this measure that we have, we need to have a measure and really rent apartments, because in this way you are nodding the possibility that someone who lives in Zagreb can rent an apartment somewhere else. How are we gonna deal with this? There were on several occasions said and colleagues from areas of certain counties spoke of a large number of apartments and a large number of empty houses. No one wants to buy those houses because there's no one here. So it's no problem that she's expensive or that she's, which is her price no one asks how much it costs. He doesn't ask how much it costs because he's not ready to go live and he won't be ready to go until he makes the job possible. So, demographic measures when it comes to the country, you can't just look at one sector. You should watch it all together. At one point, I watched a little bit of other countries do it. I have to admit I have this problem, I'm always looking at these Scandinavian countries even though I would never live there. But I watch a little bit of what they did, so I watched what Denmark and Sweden did. They worked the whole system of demographic measures, and the result was seen only after 20 years. So that's what we need to be ready for today. So, absolutely what it is, this is just one drop on that big watch is one icon. The whole system needs to see demographic measures. If we set them up today and we start working on them today, or if this assembly is the one that will discuss them, who will bring them first results, we can see them for twenty years, and we need to be aware of that. We must likewise be aware of our responsibilities in this regard. Therefore, it is no wonder that we, no matter how many dilemmas we have, how many doubts we have, as far as we say it is for a particular group to support. It's better to have anything than nothing. But what we must all advocate, really set up one programme of demographic reconstruction, a system program, a program that can be obtained by consensus because I am convinced that we can have a consensus and then see a series of measures, and part of these measures is connected to the housing. When you talk a little bit, there are two basic things that young people are interested in – they are interested in business and they are interested in housing. But they're interested in security. You know, I've had compared to those young MPs for a little bit over the years, and I, when I started working, we had security. We knew exactly when we finished college that you'd get a job and no matter how much work you waited for, you knew you'd get it and that in that business, if you were ambitious, you'd get a little more, but if you didn't go in line. Today young people don't have that security and that's why they have no problem, get together to go to Ireland, be there for as long as they need to go somewhere else. And that's something this country has to do with the system of measures. What's good in this law that I've already said, and I'm going to repeat, what's given the possibility of buying, so the laws have always been that it's new real estate. This law is not about new real estate. But there's also a passage in the reasoning of this law that I think is a confusion. And in this paragraph, it is said that there should also be accounting for existing properties, so that the possibility of reconstruction, adaptation is subsidized, is spoken in terms of existing centres, or the cores of cities that can thus be further improved, or that they are not dead and that the colleague Makar, in the debate for the first reading, made an observation that something should be done in or on. That remark was rejected and said it was not the subject of this law. I agree it's not the subject of this law, but it's something to think about. Similarly, Bačić was at first reading, you can see that he made an observation about if someone loses a job to see what was said for a month you don't pay, so you're automatically left without, or you're in trouble with banks, it's also rejected. I'd like to say it was adopted. It seems to me that being a good thing would somehow make the whole story easier. And lastly, perhaps related to this law a few sentences regarding construction. Construction is the first to feel recession, construction is the first to feel the exit from recession. Somewhere in 2015, it wasn't that terrible percentage drop in GDP, the state was participating in construction, but it was zero, and it was an indication that something was happening. The number of building permits issued last year, which increased slightly during the first quarter of 2017, speaks of investors still moving and starting in line with this law. And that's where we're gonna get another problem. You know, if your construction was out of the kind of 5, 10 years that was in Croatia, we had a quality fit, which our construction was really proud of and could have been proud of, it went out and we have a problem now. Not only do we have a problem with better quality armers, carpenters, builders. We have a problem and basic labour. On the one hand you have unemployed people, on the other hand you have a basic labour problem and I understand colleagues who own certain construction firms, who are doing pressure and say open up the possibility of hiring foreigners because believe it or not, there is no one to work with. There's no one in construction to work. And now that we're here, we're really in a lot of trouble. We have a law that speaks of credit subsidies, which will certainly encourage construction, there is no one to work, and when someone has to work, then someone can also consume this law. So, my people, this law shows that we need a series of measures, that we're already late, but we're not going to solve anything about crying in our own difficult fate, that we're late. But there's something we can work out, a team, that we really have a special ministry that's been talking about demographics. Demography and the problem will not be solved by establishing a ministry or by establishing an office, so it will be settled in itself. No one has a magic wand, but there should be a series of measures, a series of measures that will allow us to really stop this problem. So we've got two problems, we've got a problem moving people who are getting taller from month to month, and I hope that at one hour they're still stagnating with us about summer and tourism. We have another problem, look at the statistics at 4 months is twice as small a child as he died. So we have this, so what we need to be aware of in 20 years is going to be telling us somewhere, I dare say it, but I repeat what experts say somewhere a little over 3 million, some say between 3 and 3.5 million. So it won't be any more trouble for apartments or anything, but it'll be a problem for people. I really feel this law as one... in this whole picture, we will support it because it is better to have one measure than not one, but what I am appealing for and I am really talking about from this pay phone, it is time to have one too many demographic policies, to know what we want, to be systematic, to at least have it by about 2030, 2040, to stick to it and to have all the laws that we bring to be really based on improving the demographic image of Croatia because all of this we bring, we will not have anyone to bring because there will be no young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41481	Thank you. ... It's too late, unfortunately, you can't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Four are replicas, the first is a respected colleague, Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41482	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues Taritash, you've been well-detecting that Croatia doesn't have a systematic or planned demographic policy, and that's exactly what we should bring, which we should bring by consensus in this House, all together, all political options and then agree, that's policy, today we're introducing this measure, in two years we're introducing another one, in three years she has a head and tail, and not that it's going to change from today to tomorrow, because that's how we have just in these six months examples that I don't know, tax reform comes in, and then I don't know, the caterers who thought they'd pay VAT 13%, hire some waiters, invest, open some new cafes, enter some long-term rentals, make investments and then tell them in fact after 2 months of the state, if you don't pay more than 25, you have 100% more. And now, young people work with them, working with them to feed young families, etc. And it all affects each other. If one party says it will give 1000 euros to every newborn child then it comes to power and then the real one doesn't happen, then it demotes those young people, that I can't trust the state, that I can't trust politicians, that I can't trust the system. I'm not going to say it again, here, I've brought up today a whole series of reasons why it's wrong and what's not good here, but it's certain that we need stability and a systematic policy that's not going to change, which will be in continuum the same, regardless of the political changes on the state scene, but I'm not sure we still have the strength to go in Croatia, because always when you say some well-intentioned criticism then you get on the other side of your head that you're just destructive. Here I will commend that in these six months the only good that this government has brought is an increase in birth benefits and that is really one good measure, but not all that will bring, children will not be born because of this law or birth benefits. What young people need is a job because if they don't have a job they can't repay loans, they can't feed a child, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41483	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41484	Thank you very much. So I can really agree with you. What young people need today, what they've lost, they've lost security, they've lost and they don't trust us, they don't trust these laws that we've passed because they don't believe how long it's gonna take. I can tell you two or three months ago from my daughter's friend said, I'd go buy or we'd go buy an apartment, we heard this law comes when it's gonna be. So I'm some sort of parliamentary representative and expects that I could tell her that and since it was anything, not to mention it now in the context of demographics, I say the law passed the first reading, I expect that by the summer break is the way it was announced to be the second reading. Try to book an apartment that you like, so wait a minute, we're not sure it's going to come to another reading at all because we've had opportunities and let's say the Law on Spatial Planning that's going to be this afternoon that doesn't get so deep in the problem he's the third time here. We had our first reading during the government of Oreshkovic, then he had to go again and we had our first reading again, so we ourselves are leading to some instability. But indeed, we all do, regardless, and I can repeat that once again who is sitting on the left or right, we can all agree that this country needs one systematic demographic policy that will have a specific hodogram, which will have certain measures, if we can only do so... When you brought such a thing and we brought nothing more, we have already done much because we would do and give and know what kind of Croatia we see in 2030, 2040, that's what matters. Not as we see Croatia in half a year or a year, but as Croatia wants in 2030 and 2040, so they need some strategies and, of course, action plans related to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41485	Thank you very much. The second is Comrade Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41486	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the secretary of state and the assistants. Your Honor, Mrs. Dark. I'd like to replicate your position on renting apartments. The rent of apartments is okay. And what you were saying is that, however, in the tradition of the Croatian man, and it would be more normal to think about buying an apartment than renting an apartment. Renting an apartment is something you've been paying for your whole life and you don't have anything in the end. And when you buy your real estate when you invest in your real estate you and in the old days have some real estate, you have some capital that's one saving for life. That's why I belong to those who encourage and prefer property purchase. I know it's much harder to buy real estate and it's not easy for a young man and everything you're talking about stands. The ministry should be commended for this measure and you said it and surely this measure is good and that it will help many, but we should also think about it, I said it last time and always, we need to think about how to potential the remaining people in their homes, their areas in our rural areas. We have to go there, I said, and when you were a minister, we must strive to do so and today, to ask this ministry for us to give people in rural areas free and project documentation and construction permits and solve the traditional traffic, education, transport of children, but they cannot be the same conditions for issuing a building permit in the center of Zagreb and in some least rural village there because it moves people from those parts. So we have to work here, every county, every city or municipality can figure out its own priority area that's 15 miles away, we have a situation that 15km from the city everyone is running from that big city, and 15km away, so that's about ten minutes by car. But we need to stimulate people in these areas. And through this way some new measures with these potentials, but I certainly think it's better than renting apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41487	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41488	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, I may agree with you in part, but we certainly won't agree on renting apartments. So I can agree on a way to encourage someone to really stay in the rural area and allow them to stay there. But first you can enable him if he has a secure job or if he has opportunities near a secure job and that's a series of measures that should be. I would like one of the measures that is in the future and which is in the sense that we are actually allowing credit subsidies when someone reconstructs an existing house, upgrades the existing house, is it the same incentive that speaks of existing properties that you have, but which you adapt to certain other conditions. What's the theme rent? So all the cities in Europe, usually the cities bear, have a number of apartments to rent, whether it's a private investment so the city has a contract with him or something else. Why? To be interesting to young people who will come and work. What characterizes Croatia, so I like to have real estate, so we like to have real estate knows it's our one through one, and then we're safe, but time changes. And when you talk to young people a little bit, we did some research when we started to develop and think about this rental project at all, and first we thought that the existing apartments that were at one hour after there was a big construction boom on the market were apartments that were empty. Believe me, the best-ordered apartment if it's empty for five years and you get into it, certainly doesn't work or heat or something, so the worst thing is to do something and be empty and not put into function. And we couldn't put that into operation for the simple reason that the banks weren't. But young people say, we're willing to go on rent or we're willing to have our parents in a good apartment in a rental, and we're going to have this apartment that we're going to inherit ourselves anyway. That's the way to think. The Croats have real estate, when anyone comes from the outside and we talk about how much we have real estate they don't trust us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41489	Thank you. The third replica is a distinguished colleague of the Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41490	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague of mine of a few details I noticed in your presentation. The first is, you said well that, of course, first job, apartment. Since I'm coming from the area, we've done a lot of work anyway. We have the largest reduction, Krapina-Zagorje County has the largest unemployment reduction in the Republic of Croatia. The housing issue was well resolved by young people, not because they were so good socioeconomic opportunities but by the good part and thanks to our parents building there in the 1970s, the '80s more locks where they actually redecorated some of that space and today solved the housing issue. And the third thing I'd add is public services. Of course, first of all, the infrastructure of municipal but also services related to non-social activities, so from education, education, culture, sport and so forth, because we believe that today young people pay extremely much attention to what is of course and logical. So I also pointed out a few discussions before this importance of pre-school education, the importance of one, the full reform, of a system that is pre-centralised. Nor is decentralisation good if it leads to an extremely large difference in the conditions where it can, means a particular parent puts his child, a child in kindergarten and I mentioned them before. And what else makes preschool education important? Because actually preschool education is the basis for later and for better, better education because of the low coverage that we have for preschool children. In Croatia today's children have the least chance of having better material conditions than their parents, in particular those children with less material status, lower education and, unfortunately, those are the most rural environments. So unless we're going to work on these people being educated and going to big cities to school and then going back to a smaller environment, then it's hard to survive rural areas because we're not really benefiting much from those who went to big cities and stayed there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41491	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41492	Thank you very much. My fellow Weldergay, you've actually spoken in your replica something that's a topic of sustainable development. It is a topic where the role of state and individual units of local self-government in Croatia is extremely important. And we are aware that our children do not have the same opportunities in all parts of Croatia, that they have better opportunities in cities, that they have better security related to kindergartens and schools and departures in cities than in rural areas. And that's what actually a series of state measures must help. All municipalities are unable to do so themselves, and we must be aware that they are not. But what children really need in growing up have the same opportunity to go to kindergarten, the same opportunity to go to school, the same opportunity to education, and that's what we all really do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41493	Thank you, and the last replica is a esteemed colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41494	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. You said in your debate that this is one puzzle and that we will support it all, we will probably support it all. But for me, she didn't crawl, this is one cartoon, so it's a really small thing that could have been done much better. So these 17 million kunas and people must be aware that the state will earn 95 million kuna on both real estate and VAT. So let's go all plastic, 100 thousand euros cost an apartment, someone when they buy an apartment will pay 25% of VAT, means 20 thousand euros so they don't fall into a mathematical trap and say 25 thousand, means 20 thousand VAT, and then they'll pay 4,000 euros in real estate taxes, because that's what the government has abolished as a measure for people who buy the first tax. And the country gets 24,000 euros on the basis of that transaction and something helps. I've given you the amendment and I see here and the sincere intentions of the HDZ people to help young people. And I call upon those who buy real estate to support that amendment. Let's get rid of people paying VAT and real estate taxes if we really want to give real help. This is a breeze and what I suggested would be real help. So the breeze and a bit of fresh air in the sail would be the release of VAT and real estate tax on those people who buy the first real estate or that group of younger people who buy and try to stay alone and stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41495	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41496	Comrade Maras, here we are all through this discussion regardless of which side of the assembly we are sitting on, we can agree that this is a law that will be applicable and will be able to benefit those who are financially and able to pay for the loan. And this is a law for those who have decent incomes and who make decent profits, and it has no dilemmas whatsoever. What we really do through this discussion and need it that way, it's not always an opposition to criticise. The opposition must be understood that it can also be constructive and that it should be criticised only to make the ruling better. So now we're taking this opportunity to call the ruling one and let's say after we have this law look a little bit, you see, you see a system of measures for people who can't pay a loan, for people who aren't creditworthy, but for people who also need to solve their living issue, so then it's another law, another story, another way. And of course what's earned from this, based on this law that you're talking about, can be used for this other law and other system of measures. So I do appeal and somehow believe that this is just one of a series of laws and that soon we may see some others who will allow housing to solve the problem and those who do not have enough money to take credit and pay for that loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41497	My colleague Branko Bačić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, we continue the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41498	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected State Secretary and Assistant Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Final Proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act. I had prepared a completely different speech on behalf of the club since in that part he repeated many of the colleagues who were either through a debate on behalf of the club or through replicas already talked a lot about it, so I will change what I planned, change and refer to some inaccuracies that were already presented during the debate and also on the good side of the law that should certainly be highlighted. First of all, I would like to say that this bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it is primarily proposed by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Therefore, this law, as well as the obligation and part-time work of this ministry, is aimed at the activities of construction and construction of housing, so that in this sense this law is aimed at improving the situation in Croatian housing, and in addition to that in Croatian construction, it is more if we know that as a small part of the activity in Croatia in the past 9 years, the most in this activity is the reduction of the number of employees. Before the crisis, there were about 140,000 of them, and in half of 2016 about 90,000 employees were in construction and construction, which means about 60,000 less employees in part due to the lack of road construction work, or low construction. But also because of the reduced volume of construction works in the apartment building. So this law, proposed by the Government today as a final proposal and the law on which it is based, was adopted in 2011, aimed at improving the state of construction and promoting the sale or purchase of apartments in such a way that the state is now entering the process of encouraging the purchase, i.e. selling apartments with certain subsidies, in order to primarily encourage young people who deal with one of their most important issues of life, which is a housing issue, to encourage and facilitate the purchase of the apartment or the first apartment and the resolution of the roof over the head. And it's a priority task of this law. Now, during this morning's debate, we are trying to make this law a law that should solve all demographic problems in Croatia, all social problems. He's not written for it, nor can he. But since the state through subsidies makes it easier for young people to decide to buy an apartment and buy an apartment easier then there are also certain measures that help the demographic restoration of Croatia in a way that if during the first four years, during the duration of the family loan, the young family gets a new child then the deadline is extended. On the other hand, the social status of disabled persons was also taken into account, so that these measures are in a certain way merely an indication of certain demographic measures that this law adopts and in a certain way resolves. But there are two other very important laws in Croatia that define housing in Croatia, which is why the state will allocate 300 million kunas through the budget for this year. So it's on the one hand encouraged housing and on the other hand it's housing savings. Therefore, when we talk about encouraging housing, about resolving the housing issues of our fellow citizens, then we cannot and must not just look at this law in isolation, but then we also look at the Law on Encouraged Housing and Housing Savings, where 300 million kuna is allocated from the budget annually. If I were to go into my thinking now that I did not agree with the government policy of Zoran Milanovic when it comes to POS, therefore also encouraged housing, and when it comes to the reduction of subsidies, state subsidies and support in housing savings, I could not say all that in 15 or 10 minutes. It'll probably be another chance. But I support this law because this law is the fastest, most easily in one place, to enable a young man to resolve a housing issue with not a small amount of state support. That's why I have to say, I'm surprised that the state gives me 17 and a half million kuna, and it takes 95 million kuna. First, during the course of this law, the state will single out 160 million kunas, because this year 17, next 35, again 35, and again 35, and then again 35, and then 17 and a half. So that's if the law lasts until 2022. But I hope warmly that this law, given the interest that will be expressed, and I am sure that we will see that when the realisation of this law begins, that we will have the needs of this law and further extend it. But to return to that 95 million kuna. The State charges 95 million kuna on value added tax and on real estate tax. The two are excluded from each other, so we cannot speak at the same time about the Value Added Tax Act and at the same time about real estate tax. Because the one who pays VAT doesn't pay taxes on real estate, so a little young people, a little young people, will generally believe that the grant will be sent to citizens who will buy apartments in new construction. So, of the legal persons who are in the VAT system, then they won't be suspended for and won't have to pay a real estate tax which we with tax reform exactly abolished at the end of last year. So that's out of the question. The one who pays the VAT would not be paid and would not pay the real estate tax. But the state, or owners of those apartments that go for sale, would be bonds to pay VAT. Therefore, whether this law or not, the state for the sale of these apartments would have collected the 95 million kuna. And if it wasn't for this law, it wouldn't have been for this 160 million. And that's what to say. So this is where the state turns out to be 17 and a half to pick up 95. The state, these apartments would probably be on sale because they sell and build about 16,000 apartments in Croatia annually. Therefore, these apartments would be sold anyway, and young people would not have a small amount of subsidy. The amount of the loan subsidy, which I am talking about a fixed loan of EUR 100000 today, will be paid back to a loan of 100 000 credit users depending on the duration of that loan either at 15 or at 20 or 30. The most unfavourable is at 30. For 30 years, it will return another 105,000 euros to the bank. So at 205,000 euros, the total value will be 7%, 7% of the subsidy. 7% subsidy means it's somewhere around 90 thousand kuna, will during the duration, during the duration of four years of subsidy to... out of 100,000 euros, a citizen will receive about 90 thousand kuna if he is 30 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If by any chance he paid, the real estate tax, he would pay 4%, 4% on 100 thousand euros is 7.5 and 30 thousand kuna, respectively. At 100,000 euros, 4% of the tax on real estate, he would have paid 30 grand, and I say he won't pay it, because generally these from experience seven years ago are generally related to the purchase of apartments from legal persons, which is paid the value added tax. Therefore, this needs to be cleared up and it should be said that with this bill, the young person will be provided with a loan of 100,000 euros, 90,000 kuna of subsidies. And if he had to pay real estate tax by chance, he'd pay 30 thousand kuna. So that's one of the things I wanted to say. The second thing I was going to say is that the original law that was seven years ago, was also meant to be a state guarantee, and it was called the State Guarantee Act and subsidisation of housing credits, I first gave my position that it would be good to keep the state guarantee in order to eventually, if the credit user were to lose a certain amount of time during the repayment of the credit, through that guarantee, to allow the bank certain funds until a young person found a new job and thus not be left without an apartment as is this... The estimated experience we heard at 2325 apartments, as many as were sold under that old law, only five such cases were, so the ministry, the government estimated there was no need to go in then, to keep this law a state guarantee for every credit the state supports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what the banks agreed to, and that's how I accept it, and then the law clearly doesn't apply to the guarantee of credit. It was also said that this law does not take into account the even development of Croatia, because mainly young people will be focused on large centres where there are many apartments for sale, unlike rural parts of Croatia that do not have such housing, there are no free apartments sold, so I think it is just the other way around. This law goes towards allowing in all parts of Croatia from my Korčula, so to Ilock, the possibility of a citizen going into construction of his own house or buying used real estate, which this law allows, which was so far not the case, therefore this law is in this sense and a step forward and it is a significant step towards those parts of Croatia which, however, were not evaluated in this way by the law seven years ago. When it came to demographic measures that should still be included in this law, or social measures that should give certain advantages to people with several children etc., etc., I said that this should be guided by the measures of demographic and social policy implemented by the Ministry of Demography and the family and youth, so that these measures should be dealt with, and I think that the Government has done so and is doing so with the measures implemented in that ministry, it would, firstly, mention the demining of birth benefits for the other 6 months and for the unemployed and for the unemployed mothers in such a way that it was increased almost 100% for the employees and for the unemployed is almost the same way the increased birth benefits for the other 6 months. Therefore, in the past six months, the government has been slowly implementing demographic measures that go for the demographic restoration of Croatia, and looking for complete demographic measures in this law that I am talking about, comes primarily from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in me, there is no need. It is also good to mention that I mentioned this earlier, and now I will repeat, so that the state continues with other measures that encourage housing in Croatia, and in this sense I would suggest that we consider the higher support given through housing savings, because I think that encouraging housing savings is one of the unfavourable conditions for buying apartments in Croatia and that this law should not reduce the support that comes through the House Savings Act, because it has been found that the most favourable loans in Croatia that have gone towards buying apartments have been implemented through the House Savings Act, even better and more favourable than this one, and especially through encouraged housing. I just said that in one replica, that I am sure that this law is absolutely attractive, that these 1,000 apartments that are scheduled for this year, but in the first 15, 20 days we will reach, I am absolutely sure, because there is no better measure that allows a young man to use this subsidy that is so important that he allows the apartment to be equipped. In fact, from the experience we had, seven years ago, we saw that the credit user with this subsidy, if he buys a new apartment, could raise a new loan to equip that same apartment. It is approximately on that trail and the amount of subsidy worked and it was then established for 4 years, so when a young man buys an apartment he is credited with allowing it to be provided additionally for the complete equipment of the apartment. So on this trail, I'm saying we need to support this law, but we need to continue with other measures like encouraging housing where local self-government is interested and we need to continue living savings, because it's one of the most favourable conditions for buying apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41499	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas, so let's take it in a row. The first came from a respected colleague, Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bacic, I'm not going to repeat what I've said in my replicas this morning, but I'm going to refer exclusively to your debate. You have pointed out several times in your debate that even now at the very end, but also during the debate that this measure is extremely attractive and very good and that it will cause the huge interest of young citizens in Croatia and I believe that it is so and that you are convinced that in five years we will have to change this measure. So then I don't see why we've even put a limit on it, let's just stop it right now, let's just get it out of the way and let's see how long it takes to give certain effects by then. When it's gone, then we can easily shut it down, not only for five years. You pointed out that a good extension of two years is a two-year payment for each newborn child and that is good, but after four years it will require an increase in new funds or a reduction in the number of users of new loans. Now, I'd like to see that opinion of yours whether it can be guaranteed that in four years' time, funds will be increased again to amortize that we have a constant number of new users and that the payment of loans for the existing ones is extended. Then you pointed out that only in this year 17 million kuna is allocated for this measure, and in the next 35, 35, 35, and 35, and that should be seen in the context of these 95 which will be the revenue of the state, but also that 35 million kuna is three times less than the 95 that the state will collect. And if it were true of your government's intention to help young people then you would support the amendment of fellow Maras, let it be free of the payment of VAT and first real estate tax so that even through those funds, the young power will be equipped with its own apartments. And just one sentence, Mr. Vice President, and I'm done. And I'm curious about what you think about young people who don't pay just one loan war are automatically breaking off the contract with them and they have to pay back all the funds they've received by then because you're the one in the first reading trying to change it, and I see it hasn't changed, so I'm wondering if you're going to submit the amendment until the end to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41501	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You asked me a lot of questions. I said that first of all, if there was no law, the state would pick up these 95 million kunas anyway, because the flats are being sold at an annual level, and the more we get out of the crisis, the more and more the apartment sales are being observed. Therefore, these apartments would be sold anyway only young people would not get a large subsidy of 7% of the total amount of loans they must repay... The other thing is, the state would get that money anyway. The second thing, we can't look at 17,5 million kunas in the context of 95 million kunas because 17.5 times four years. So if we were to compare it, it would be at least four years without having that measure for another two years for children, so it's 4 times 17 somewhere around 70 I think two or three million kunas. Therefore, it is not such a drastic difference that the state will have to grant for these apartments subsidies in relation to what it will receive from VAT and real estate tax. The second thing you asked me was a state guarantee, so it's true the original law that was seven years ago was that if the credit user at the time of repayment could no longer repay credit for any reason, the state was for a while, but not permanently, then the state would not have permanently needed but 12 months the state would still have followed that credit until the credit user had found a job in a certain way, found the funds to be able to repay that credit. From the experience we have heard of only five of them 2300 citizens were in such a situation, so the government estimated that then the additional cost had no need to represent it because, as you can see, it is very, very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41503	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The issue of eviction and housing is the question of a family especially young families. Of course, this measure is one of the measures that the Government and the Ministry want to contribute to total separation, demographics throughout the Republic of Croatia. Any measure that is positive, and this proposal for a law on subsidisation of housing loans, should be supported by everyone in this House of Law. Often, unfortunately, we approach these and all topics and suggestions pessimistically and with a high dose of criticism and surface. Government attempts and resolutional ministries, such as the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of State Property, the Ministry of Demography, family and youth, give us the right to hope that with one common approach, co-ordination of all ministries will come to not only this bill but also a number of other laws will help young families with less fear to decide to create a family and stay in the country. I am interested because we know that there are many lands or areas in the whole country that are not economically exploitable, how do you feel about the suggestion that these land and such land are donated or sold favorably to young families? Of course, everything in line with the requirements of local self-government and customized spatial plans that would exactly be aligned in that direction. Do you think that by coordinating these ministries, such a proposal could be based on this bill that we are discussing today because in fact this coordination brings success not only to demographic but to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41505	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Šipić, you are the mayor and you know how local self-government works, how much I have the information of a particular unit of local self-government in my county intend to rely on this law in a certain way. So what you've said is this one co-ordination, the cooperation between this roof law that the government is making and the measure that certain units of local self-government are carrying out can be traced to what you've said. So far, there has been a measure of encouraging housing that meant building more housing units. Our people somehow prefer to have their own houses, private houses and thus can, clearly in cooperation with the Ministry of State Property in cooperation with the units of local self-government of young people, provide the land to which it would be, donated or otherwise accompanied by the unit of local self-government to enable that same young man or family to then engage in this law and use these measures. As far as I have information in my county, it is thought that through the policy of a single unit of local self-government that can do it, and some can't even do it, but those who can go into the process and enable these same young families and additional subsidies and support to resolve the housing issue more easily using this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41507	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41508	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I would agree with my colleague Bačiće m that during this debate there was a lot of manipulation about the law itself that I personally consider very good. As a young person, I may also be most aware of what it is that weighs on us young people, which is certainly a good and permanent job, then comes the need for housing and these are the preconditions for the establishment of a family, i.e. the repair of a demographic image in the Republic, which is mostly in Slavonia really devastating. This legal proposal certainly does not solve that demographic picture but encourages it. This law does not resolve the housing issue of all young people and others. However, it is important to point out for this law that the criteria are very clear that this law affects a group of people with permanent incomes and relatively arranged lives that the subsidy certainly helps. And these same persons, under the conditions of such a law, take all the risks in any further business. This is one of the measures and I am convinced that there will be others who are good, who should be supported and who we all need to support together and who is in the interest of young people, or one of their basic and basic desires, which is housing care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41509	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague, Mikulic, that it is a matter of all matters of employment and working relationship. When this law comes to a working relationship indefinitely. And we are witnessing that a very large number of young people are faced with the fact that their first working relationship is fixed and that's not good and that's what needs to be solved by another measure. So I wouldn't throw it away, there's no colleague Mrak-Taritash here now, she promised in that law in her term but it wasn't passed it's the law to encourage renting apartments. Exactly for, just like renting one of the kind where you're not on such a long deadline as the obligation to pay neither rent nor pay a war or annuity to banks as is the case in this law. Therefore, the solution to the housing issue is complex. What Croatia says is there are three, I think 3 very good models, but for what you said about all these three models, it is necessary to work indefinitely, but for young people who have difficulty hiring indefinitely and are employed at a certain time where it is a year or 3 months or something more. It is necessary to consider this one proposal to resolve the incentive to pay rent or subsidise with another legal act. I say it was announced and we haven't seen the light of day. But I wouldn't throw it away to help the people you just mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41511	Have the Republic an esteemed representative, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41512	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bačić, you said that even better economic opportunities create a better demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore yesterday's information and in daily information shows talk about strengthening the kuna or lowering the credit Euribor is actually historically the lowest to -0.3, we came out of the excessive deficit. All macroeconomic indicators of GDP are improving, reducing the unemployment rate, increasing employment rates, the current balance of payments account, reducing actually the average inflation-related part, which is saying, and which would mean that we went to new elections. If we create a favourable situation in the state, whether legal or tax, what does this law we are going to pass to subsidize housing loans for young people? We heard today throughout the day of this debate very positive things but also those that may have been corrected from the words of opposition deputies. Of course, the law went into two readings and I believe that certain things have improved, those that couldn't and explained in this final bill. It is not to be shy or to speak when we talk about the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, you mentioned that we also have encouraging housing as well as encouraging savings, perhaps we should also point out that this government has passed the Law on maternity and parental compensation and now, with this law, you are actually kniting a good national population policy that should not stand on this, but actually through programmes and measures, trying to improve all those things for a better demographic picture and for a better life in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41513	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41514	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babic, I agree that the macroeconomic indicators in Croatia are those that then define interest rates, so I'll just give you an example. When we worked on that law in 2011, which this law was based on, we negotiated with the banks the lowest effective interest rate and it was 4.5. 4.5 now is 3.75. So 0.75% is lower than the state 6 years ago. On the other hand, we're worried that after 4 years of subsidisation of the state, then the banks would go and raise interest rates, and we've advocated that this effective interest rate would be the entire duration of the loan 4.5, the banks didn't agree to that, and now I see that they were right. Because one small check by persons who, 7 years ago or 6 years ago, took a loan under this law from 6 years ago, so who was threatening this law, and their polling, have a lower interest rate than the one they started with. I think it's somewhere between 2.5 and 3% now, the interest rate for loans that were raised under that law at the time. We are now starting with an effective interest rate which is 3.75 and I am convinced that it is also not a fixed interest, that if these macroeconomic indicators continue, if the state continues to grow GDP, if everything continues together, if Euribor continues to decrease, that all the team that takes credit on this will all of these users be an even less interest rate than is now an interest rate under that 2011 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41515	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41516	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, you were talking about this law being committed and evenly developed, that they were all in the same position. I do not agree with that, so I do not agree with the fact that there will be too many opportunities and demands on Korcula unless people have already prepared themselves, had the information in advance, since there are not too many apartments available, especially not 1000 and a half euros, if there are any 1000 and a half euros, feel free to contact me, I will probably get involved, not in the loan, but in the free activity of buying such an apartment. Because it's really for the Korčula price that can hardly be found there. So I still think it would have been much more effective if the state had helped with the start-up subsidy. Regardless of the price, rather than taking the social criteria, the people who are the target, who want to help, were determined, and then this could be manifested in the territory of Croatia as a whole. Then it wouldn't matter to people who are the price of the loan because if they wanted to live on Korčula where you live, they'd buy an apartment there or a house there and invest that subsidy the state would give them. This is how they are privileged to him and in areas where there are several unsold apartments, these are large centres, and I don't mean Split, because there is also the average price of the apartment not in this category that the legislator said, if we don't look at the wider area, so if someone lives in Split, it will be very difficult to find an apartment of 1500 euros. In Zagreb will, so this is let's say Zagreb is an area that is suitable, so I don't think that model is the best. On the other hand, I'm glad you just said that the interest was 4.5% in this old one because you said a month ago that Minister Maric could have gone better, no. So he couldn't do it anyway. If 4.5%, then it's worse than Minister Maric got in HPB six years ago or seven years ago. So you've been doing a little correction now in your statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41517	The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41518	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with this last thing you said about the Secretary of Finance's loan. I said it and now I'm saying that this loan that he's already almost double the 4% rate he's paying is his fixed interest rate. The other thing I wanted to say, I appreciate what you said, but I have to tell you that this law allows not only the purchase of a private house but also the construction of a private house, so I on Korčula with a law like this, not me, I'm a little older than I am sorry, so I have to say so I can't use this law, but if someone wants, now five years on Korčula can build a house, and enter this project if clearly, it has a building permit. Or he could buy some wasted, used house and re-enter this loan and also use it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we still have experience that was six years ago, at 2325 apartments, the average price of one square metre was 1365 euros. At 2325 apartments as many as were sold in the law, which as almost identical to the state guarantee, was an average of 1365 euros, an average age of 31 years and an average area of 62 square meters. So, it was under that old law, but what I was going to say further, it doesn't prevent anyone from buying and expensive an apartment. That's what's important to say. You can also buy a more expensive apartment that is over 1000 and a half euros, and whose value is over 100,000 euros, you will be able to buy it but this law will allow you to be only 1,000 and a half meters square or only 100000 euros per total value of the apartment. Therefore, if someone on Korčula thinks they can buy an apartment of 110 000, they can get into this, but those 10,000 won't be subsidized in the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41519	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41520	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bačić, in your debate, you have clearly shown the benefits of this law and the fact is that when it is passed, and I think it will almost be unanimous, that it will actually be the best credit product on the market that banks will be able to offer at the moment. And the fact is that regardless of all the doubts and attempts to perhaps defuse the state's efforts, surely what is available is going to be able to subsidize or help go very quickly and very quickly solve the question of how 17 and a half million kunas will be distributed. What's the problem? The problem may be rural environments, given that the law refers to the whole of the Republic of Croatia and the lack of access to sufficient good or credit institutions in those areas. And what I would ask, of course, is that perhaps some sublegal act or something will be resolved above this, to achieve some possible even allocation of these subsidized loans so that we do not know that there is 95% of all in Zagreb, and then in Rijeka 2%, Osijek one and Split that and all the others nothing. Because you don't, I don't know, we have one bank on the island, maybe two. It's great if we have two on an island of 10,000 inhabitants. In some other environments, there are no banks or their institutions anywhere that you can handle it. And the fact is that our children are either born or our elderly are dying in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. We want to encourage this space as much as possible, so there will be one here, and my request is that the ministry make every effort to really deploy a large part of the loan right in the rural areas, and that we try to stop that depopulation or leave the young people or families with this kind of measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41521	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Boric, unfortunately, I still think that the sum of these loans will be directed to citizens living in large urban areas and not only because banks are less available in these rural areas. This would be easier for the credit user to reach the bank that is 20 kilometers from him, than the offer of apartments empty new is where and where smaller in some rural areas than in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka or elsewhere or in some other parts of Croatia. First of all, I am urban compared to the rest of Croatia where there are no apartments available, but where measures will mostly be implemented, and I do not believe that this will be much, I am sorry for the construction of new residential, new houses. For that to be prepared, you need to have a building permit, you need to be ready for this loan. And here in urban areas there are empty apartments that have used permits, which are already on the market on July 31st. So, after 1.8, there's a public call. He'll be able to answer because it'll take a very short time. I'm sure it'll take a short 17 and a half thousand kuna, or 1,000 apartments to get rid of it quickly. Maybe in a month and a half, he'll get rid of it for two days. At that time, if someone does not have a ready building permit, it will be difficult, almost impossible to obtain it, and at the same time, there will be empty apartments in these large urban centers owned by banks or developers, or I do not know whose much faster it will be placed on the market. That's right, you've guessed the essence of this law, that's his bad side. It is unfortunately that the gro will be in urban areas, and that if there is no building permit for these regions, unless everything is stored, it will be much more difficult to achieve the right to a subsidy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41523	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41524	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have touched on a very interesting topic in your debate and these are tax exemptions, and it is very interesting that some tax exemptions have now been abolished by a zero VAT rate since 2014. And why is that? Well, because Croatia made certain commitments by entering the EU, and when we signed certain documents, we clearly agreed that we could not have a zero VAT rate. So today it is said that a zero VAT rate should be introduced for this, and four years ago it assured us that it cannot be because we have entered the EU at least is a political trick. But the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will recognize who's offering something of quality, who's offering some political trick. The thing is, unfortunately, what kind of salary is at this point in the Republic of Croatia few of our fellow citizens will be able to decide without the help of parents or others on a loan like this, because this is war depending on the length of the loan of 4 and a half, 5000 kuna and more. And it's just a fact that we all have to be aware of monthly. And we need to be aware of that. So it's up to us to come up with a way for Croatia's salaries to grow, that these young people have bigger salaries, and then the banks themselves will run after them to offer them credit, they won't need any of these subsidies. It's a fact we just can't get away from. But I am saying, as far as the zero VAT and exemption rate is concerned, it is enough to read EU directives that regulate this area and everything will be clear. And also if we're going to talk about getting rid of this VAT then we need to change the lex specialis law, which is the law on value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41525	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've said everything exactly, precisely, not just now, but in your replica. You already had a line on this subject this morning. So when the law was changed... the convention of harmonisation with the directive, what you yourself said, at that point, the value added tax, for the purchase of apartments, increased 9%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It depends between 9 and 7% on how much it is, where it was located. If it was located where the value of building land was higher, then it grew smaller and where it was smaller, it grew higher. So, at this point, the tax on, VAT on buying apartments is 25%, and before that, you know it very well between 16 and 18, because there was no tax, VAT, on building land. So, by introducing VAT on construction land in Croatia increases value added tax by between 7% and 9%, I say it depends on how much the building land has been participated in the value of one meter of a square apartment. Therefore, you are right, that is when it grew, and then it was justified by the EU Directive, our obligation to comply with European legislation, and that is true, and we have to stick to it, but we cannot now be populist and say that it can be put on 0%, when we have already defined that it is 25%, which we had to, which I am not accusing anyone of, by accepting and investing in full EU membership, we had to accept that it is taxing construction land when buying apartments, and in the value of the apartment when it is taxed, not only the construction part, the building value, but also land and infrastructure which was also exempt from paying taxes on additional value 3 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41527	Thank you very much. Now we can move on to our point. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the honourable representative of Stjepan Curaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41528	I would like to thank the Vice-President, my fellow Members and colleagues, the representatives of the motionary. Look ahead of us, we're back on the subject of the House Loan Subsidisation Act. And I would agree with my colleagues that this is one of the instruments that has certain objectives, as one of the tools for achieving the goals, primarily mentioned here and demographics and recovery of our real estate market, that is, the building of apartments itself. But what I would certainly ask here is a few questions and, of course, discuss some things. This is just one segment, and I agree that we should think about others in the future. When we look at the social criterion, based on this law, if we look at three basic groups of people, the first ones who have abilities for any reason to even acquire their first property do not work through any credit borrowing but from savings, inheritance or anything, they are not covered by that loan and they have no benefits. The other group of people is the one that is precisely intended for this law, that's the group of people who are creditworthy, don't have their first real estate, and they are helped here in the way that here in the law by subsidising the first 4 years half of the amount of annuity or war. The third group of people is the one that remains and that we most need to take care of here, is about those who can't be credited. And that's what's going to be the task, I believe for sure the new government will find solutions in the next periods and periods just maybe through those aforementioned subsidies of renting apartments. But let's go back to those who are being helped here and why this is a good law. First of all, it's not just about new construction, but it's about existing built apartments, which is an absolute step. It is also about building new houses. Of course, there should be a building act for that condition, so a permit, which again has a prerequisite for the purchase of land. So that is, let's say in part to them will be related to this subsidy, as far as the amounts themselves are concerned if they enter this part of the framework. What is my question is, of course, the most important thing in all of this is the conditions set out in Article 10 and Article 11 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning the opening of tenders for the selection of business partners, i.e. business partners in this law or in this subsidisation. As we had earlier in the debate, it was determined here that the maximum rate, the effective interest rate, could be 3.75%, which entails potentially certain conditions. It would be best if you could really negotiate well in this contest, to put that option to choose whether wars, or annuities, i.e. variable or fixed annuities, so in the sense that in the first wars more principals can be paid, this is what is foreseen here. That choice is whether that interest will allow it, that's what we need to see. I'm also interested in the possibility of that interest being fixed, namely now, in the current APN rule, you've had the opportunity to get a portion of the loan amount subsidized by part of the interest. So whether it was 20% of the total debt and then at that amount you got a certain percentage of the interest rate subsidy to make it maximum fixed 4%. This is a step out of that model, absolutely hailing. I'm also interested in Article 24, I have one question. What if certain circumstances arise for the borrower, that he is unable to return and request a moratorium? What I think is, a regular phenomenon, unfortunately, has been more and more frequent in previous years. There's no mention of that here. Is the circumstances set out in Article 29, 30 or not? Here's what I'd like only from the proposer, if that's at all considered. As for the financials foreseen, which we had the opportunity to hear, 17 and a half million kuna. I'd just pull one parallel. The last time he was like this, not the same, but almost similar law was current in 2012. At that time, 845 subsidy applications were received from which 791 were granted, 6 rejected, 44 applicants gave up. That year, 15 million 205 thousand 387 kuna and 64 June were spent. So 845, 15 million kuna. So that's where we're going somewhere, whether it's going to be on the same level or not, that's some of the gauges we have here. Therefore, a total of 2411 applications were received by 31 December 2012 and 2253 were approved. It tells us what was before, which was then a request, now we can only expect me to believe, more because unlike then and the real estate market and the economic indicators of the real estate market have recovered, economic indicators are going to get better. So, then what's important here, the minister's decision increases the amount by 5 million kuna by redistributing. And I believe that surely this possibility, if it is necessary, will also need the power to apply this law. Finally, of course, like all of us so far, the HNS club will support this law, and certainly it is one step forward, that it is good, we have heard comments from our colleagues that it could certainly be even better, all that is good, I hope it will be considered but surely in this, and the HNS will of course support it and that in this we should all go together, that these good laws always come to good soil. Of course, what we said at the outset is what we said about the issue and other groups of citizens who may not be able to be covered by this law, and that will certainly be something that will need to be addressed in the coming months and possibly years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41529	Thank you very much. Here is the first representative to whom I have the honour of giving my word as vice president of the Parliament, as chairman of Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Furio Radin. First, let me say that the SDP's club will also support this law, but there's always this big but. So when we help people, our view is that we need to help in the best possible way, that we need to see how countries that have similar models do it, get their experience out and see how to apply it to the Republic of Croatia. Our view is that when we speak only specifically of helping young people, they need to be helped by subsidies. And that it should be done according to certain and clear criteria. And that it should be at the beginning. Right away, when you're buying an apartment. So, in other words, if someone buys an apartment worth 100,000 euros, the state has to give you a subsidy, or should give you a subsidy of at least 20,000 euros. It would be much more helpful than this, it would be something that would put people from Split, Korčula, Dubrovnik all the way to Slavonia, Istria, in the same position. Here, with a bill like this, we have an area where no credit will be realised because there is simply no condition. There are no apartments. It's not possible, this is what a colleague from the HNS said, it's not possible to fix someone's land quickly, the permits, a loan in the bank to enable themselves to build a house, as a colleague Bacic said, on Korčula. So we've already made it impossible for one part of the people to come forward, let them live in their environments and put one other part of the people who simply live in the area where the apartments are available. And that's why we don't think this way is good. We'll back him up because it's help, because it's better than nothing you say, but the way is not good. On the other hand, when we look at concrete legislation, when we talk about VAT rates, this isn't about a zero VAT rate. No, this is about subsidising, freeing VAT payments on a specific citizen case that bought such an apartment. The VAT on the apartments remains 25% as it has been. But the state can release as a grant of VAT to citizens in a particular situation. And that's why we think it's better, because at 100,000 euros you get 20,000 aids, subsidies and people it makes it much easier for the situation, and here I can announce that when we're in a situation like this, we're going to be very likely to refer here this year to a legal procedure that doesn't talk about subsidising housing loans but which will talk about subsidising citizens under certain criteria for resolving the housing issue. That's what we should have done. Because here we have a situation that the biggest benefit of this is those who give loans and who sell apartments, after them a state that will take 95 million kuna taxes and only then citizens. And we want the exact opposite. In the SDP, we want citizens to benefit first, then those who will sell apartments, and only after that is the state or the Republic of Croatia from taxes and what it should get. So the question is priority and the question is logic that is passed in law. If we could influence this, our logic would be as I told you earlier, and in the draft law that we will refer to in the procedure will be that and we hope that we will get support and those who want to work not only on agreements and trade, but on the interest of Croatian citizens. When we talk further about the law and when we see the opening part, I don't know if we are aware of the problem in which Croatia is. The legislator wrote in the departure report from Croatia 2014-2015 as if we were at the beginning of 2016. I will tell you the dramatic data, that during 2016 and until this moment by 2017 over 100,000 people have left Croatia. Never more than in this year and a half ladies and gentlemen, ever again. When we just remember those sad numbers from three, four years ago they're good for these numbers now. Unfortunately, they were ugly, but what's happening now is a demographic disaster. This is the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately the HDZ government does not know how to solve. In a year and a half, I repeat once again, over a hundred thousand people have moved out of the Republic of Croatia. Remember that information well. Unfortunately, no one is happy to say this, but the facts are there and we have to focus on bringing these people back or at least reducing trends that are negative in the past few years. And I find it strange to see in some situations some MPs who said that at the time, and now they're pretending like they're gone. It's like they're on a switch. When we're in opposition, we're loud, and when the problem is even bigger while we're in power, we keep quiet about it. Encourage yourself and talk about it. It doesn't matter, it's not the HDZ, the SDP, it's the problem of Croatia. You're talking about gentlemen that in a year and a half over a hundred thousand people have moved out of the Republic of Croatia since HDZ was in power and respected by the government of Zoran Milanovic that it was in four years. Unfortunately, I'm going to say once again, unfortunately, that result is now the HDZ government's only one and a half years. And we all have to focus on making this trend turn and not leaving people, but on letting them know that if they went back, to allow them to lead a quality life here, a decent life, and that after that we don't have those problems, because in the end they're going to meet us in 15, 20 years, that we're going to be wondering why our GDP doesn't grow when we don't just have a high-quality worker working in our production. And on that side, laws like this could help, but much better could have been done. The criteria could have been better. The state shouldn't have made money on these people. Transparency had to be higher. Here I am openly asking the representatives of the ministry when the competition will be called. Let people know. Not only must some know when the competition will be opened, that at 8 a.m. the competition will open and at 8.05 there will be 1,000 applications. Tell the gentlemen of the ministry here publicly when the contest will be called that we can tell our fellow citizens and please don't do that if we vote on Friday morning. Give at least two, three weeks, a month to get people ready. Because everything else would be more suggestive if it were someone who had privileged information, and all those who didn't arrive will feel like they were cheated and it's not good. When a situation occurs where more applications are possible than there are free spots and subsidy options, then states that adhere to rights and rules, organise fair, so you have a month's deadline application, after a month, if so many applications have come, decide and draw out who will get the subsidy if you satisfied the terms. What variant one, two, three? Well, that suggests in the beginning, that it's about someone having information or that someone in the manual can combine the order as it fits. I don't know if it's possible, but here I'm calling you, leave people a month and a few days, and if more applications come, all those who satisfy should have the same chance, in a way to choose who gets the subsidy, because otherwise you won't be able to convince people that you've done the fair procedure. So here I am finally saying, I support these proposals, i.e. I support these proposals of the Club of Representatives of the SNAGA and the Living Wall, related to the wars, and we think that we need to focus, i.e. an apology on annuities, and we also think that we need to take care of what is the interest rate. Someone was talking here today that the interest rate is going to be lower in the coming years, no, these are interest rates that can no longer be lower than currency clauses, they can only be more, these people, it's very dangerous to even tell people it's here. I heard today from HDZ that the interest rates are likely to be even lower, so it can't be the euro and... -5, no, so don't say that, 'cause now everybody's gonna rush and take currency clauses and in two years, when it all jumps together, what's it gonna be? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then he'll say I listened to MPs in the House who assured me that the interest rate would be even lower, so I went into debt. It won't be lower, I tell you, it won't be lower. And people have to be careful about such situations and it has nothing to do with GDP growth with whether interest will be lower or higher to the extent that Mr. Bacic has spoken. Although I'm glad that he mentioned something that I claimed before while we had a debate about Zdravko Marić that the interest rate was more unfavourable than he got in HPB, it means 4.5% and he was then given as secretary of state 4%. So here are some things that the Government has given in its explanations in the debate on the confidence of Minister Maric, it is evident that he is not standing. At the time, they said it could have been obtained, approximately the same credit, under these conditions, but at that time it was 4.5% interest, and half percent more unfavourable than it had achieved as a state official in the HPB on a preferential loan. So it's a good debate to be heard and to know people with whom they can start and who stands for what. So the SDP advocates criteria, so that someone who has 30 thousand kunas can not receive a subsidy in this way from the state, that it must be in Germany, for example, that subsidy limited to those who earn up to 6000 euros a month, we are talking about Germany, but when we talk about the equivalent in Croatia, that salary should not be higher than 15 thousand kuna, because it simply needs help for people who really need that help. And those are 90 and, unfortunately, 95% in Croatia. So the aid criteria at the beginning, I have now given an amendment that I hope you will support, which is going in that direction, a start-up subsidy that enables people to make the most of this subsidy and to make it easier, as Croatia says, to keep living and to develop their family and try, of course, it is the most important thing, to find a job so that they can also pay off these loans and wars that will come to them in the coming years. But since we have nothing better than this government, we will support this law and I, in parallel, announce that we will refer our Law on Non-subsidisation of Housing Loans, rather than to subsidise the resolution of the housing issues of our people in the Republic of Croatia, which will be comprehensive, which will include those to which they should be targeted to help them and who will give a subsidy at the beginning and which will not lead to the end of this process and this law even earning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41531	Thank you, Mr. Maras. We have four replicas, Mr. Ante Babic's first replica, you have the right to a replica. Here you go. Please turn yourself in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41532	Here I thank you for the word, I have the opportunity to congratulate you on your new duty, which I am now doing, so I now report to Mr. Maras for his presentation, i.e., on what Mr. Maras said that there were those who, during Milanovic's government, counted how many people came out of the Republic of Croatia, so you looked at me, it's true, I spoke on that several occasions, both verbally and in writing. It may seem strange to you, but I agree with you on what you are now said I will not say in all things, but in most things I agree, I would be glad to achieve one consensus about a national population framework in the Republic, in different legal, sublaw, rules, activities and measures, actually improve this demographic image, that we are actually creating a positive climate, which was not a situation when during the Milanovic Government, which we also warned about due to frequent changes in tax regulations, the legal instability of ideological games that happened every little bit in this House. So I say, I welcome what is said, we need to support everything that comes not only from the opposition but from the opposition, and I hope that you will support us in doing so in order to bring as many better measures and laws as possible for a better demographic image and I say for a better quality life, especially young people in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41533	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41534	Thank you very much. What I was going to say, not specifically to you now, but I wanted to say that the situation in Croatia is dramatic. There's no one who doesn't know a few people who've left the Republic of Croatia in recent years, so there's no such thing, unfortunately. Everyone's got rules in their environment and there's more of us, someone without a job, someone with some job people are leaving, and we need to see what we do. And to avoid the political messages that I remember for four years when I was a minister, and to talk about how people leave Croatia, that's 100 grand in four years. Well, people, now in a year and a half we have so much going on while HDZ is in power in a year and a half. Oh, that's amazing. Here's even Mr. Shucker laughing there, but that's not for laughing. Don't laugh. Please don't laugh that 100,000 people have left Croatia in a year and a half. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... That's not funny. It's not the subject of a joke and throwing it out of the bench, it's that we all get together and see what we can do to make it happen in the future. And it's my very clear message here to see together what can be really done. And trust me on one more thing, Mr. Babic, so people didn't leave because of ideology. People are leaving for bread. Perhaps when someone sees a record in Jasenovac, here is Mr Furi, although now as a member of the ruling majority they will likely have the possibility of affecting it to be corrected, as a key member of the ruling majority. No, he was a member of the ruling majority before, but now he's the key, without him there's no power. It makes me uncomfortable, but that's why you don't leave Croatia, which is why you stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41535	I'm sorry, it's very interesting but I have to take away your word... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Mr. Antun Kleman, go ahead. You have the right to a replica, and please don't throw it out of the bench. It's my first day to chair, and it's kind of hard for me to tell you all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am taking the opportunity to congratulate you on this honorable duty and I want you to do your duty more successfully. A few replicas from my colleague Marasu. I'm glad my colleague, Maras, is that we all understand in this assembly that this is a huge problem, and we definitely need to outrun ourselves and our own party positions. Here's a couple of excellence national problems, and if we take it seriously, if we all stand on the same side together, I think it's possible to solve this issue, and that way I'm experiencing your support in some way that you're going to give support to this law. However, I must say that this process of eviction from Croatia has practically been created by the very entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, but the truth is that it culminated two, three years ago and that the process continues. But unlike you, I believe that the government has begun to think intensively about it and has begun to go out with laws. Here's one of those laws is this law. But I would also say that it seems to me that the government should be a little co-ordination in that sense because one set of laws should be passed to regulate that matter. I hope the government does. There should be this law between these laws. In the first place, only the housing issue will not solve departures from the Republic of Croatia, but it needs a number of economic measures, a number of tax incentives to stay in Croatia because the opportunities in the EU are much bigger than here in Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41537	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41538	Mr Furio took a rigorous approach for a second, so that's good. Mr. Kleman, I agree with you. Here we are today, or not today, but when the vote is next Friday or when the President of the Parliament decides, we will vote in favour of this proposal. But as people say, tango takes two. So we too have proposals that we have referred to in the procedure, which do not come at all on the agenda and on the debate, let alone think in HDZ to support them, let alone to think about supporting them. Now I'm going to tell you one example, I repeat this about Slavonski Brod, the Bosnian Ship of the Refinery, the law is in the process, we've all raised our hands here before the elections for an accelerated procedure three and a few months ago, an accelerated procedure, which means that all the MPs have agreed to do so in an emergency procedure, not in two readings. But that law three months ago, the accelerated procedure still doesn't break through to discuss it here to see if we can work it out together. We've proposed an investigative committee on Agrokor, if citizens have the right to know what's going on. Today three thousand people are announced to be out of a job in Konzum, three thousand people, 100 stores will close. We made that proposal, it was announced that it would be discussed, but it is not discussed. So you can't just expect to be supported without any proposal from the opposition being able as a government and a ruling group, or a position to support it. And it didn't culminate 2, 3 years ago because the trend is still in expansion, unfortunately, the culmination is when it's the most and when it starts to decrease. Now unfortunately, it is still the expansion of leaving Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41539	Thank you. The last replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41540	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations on your choice. Comrade Maras, this statistic of yours is interesting, everyone has one statistic, only you have another. Well, I'd like you to meet us a little bit where we can find your statistics. One major part of the debate has been held calling on the ministry's representatives to already say where and when the competition will be called. Because at the time of Prime Minister Milanovic's government, it was very transparent. Well, here, it was so transparent that the contests were called at 10:00 p.m., so I repeat at 10:00 p.m. and they lasted until the budget budget was spent. It was obviously transparent as soon as they got out at night and were obviously meant to be, right, everyone? As an example, there have been several competitions from the Ministry of Economy's portfolio. Therefore, I ask you for minimum correctness, if it is possible for you to expect and in the future to specify where your statistics came from and what contests did you think of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41541	Thank you. Mr. Maras, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41542	Well, I was thinking about this contest. I can answer that right away. So I want to hear it here from the Ministry's representative when the contest will be called, so people know who's listening to us right now. Yeah, and what's the issue? Or at least to say it won't be right after the law is passed, to give people a month and a half, two days. So what's the issue? What should we now vote on Friday and they open a tender Monday morning and have a thousand applications by 8:15. Well, I guess people have the right to prepare themselves throughout Croatia and not just those who knew in the beginning. What's weird about that? Well, it's the most normal procedure. And even if you were smart, if you approached everyone just the same way that no matter how long the application takes in a month to get out, everyone would be in the same position as a thousand people who would get support, that would be the right thing to do. And this way, if it goes in order, God can't convince me it's fair. No one can convince me of that. As far as statistics are concerned, if you're using the Internet and you have access now, just type in, says, here, I'll help you in Google I signed up, left Croatia 2016. And then you have HGK published the data that was only in 2016. 82 thousand working-age people left the Republic of Croatia, frightening data, 82 thousand workers in 2016. What can I tell you more? What other statistics should I tell you? I don't know, I really don't know how, how to convince you anymore. So do you even feel what that is? And you are now mentioning 2013 and 2014 Well, you'd better not talk about it. The culmination is in progress now, and whoever doesn't see it sees nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41543	Thank you, too. There is a word Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Mr. Josip Boric, as an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41544	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and congratulations at the beginning of your duties. Well, the fact is that here we are today having one OK, a quality debate on the House Loan Subsidisation Act and that we have heard various thoughts, especially on the side of the opposition, but that the law will be supported unanimously because the fact that it is good and that it is difficult to find a certain flaw unless, of course, we insist that we predict everything in the way someone really wants it or likes it in the future. When we talk about the law, we should also talk about the context or the time in which we bring it. Given what we inherited and what we have today and what we would like to have tomorrow. And the fact is that what my colleague Maras said is that people are just leaving the Republic of Croatia, young people are leaving us, our families are leaving, and that's the truth that we need to look into and see what we can do that doesn't happen. And I remember the time when Mr. Maras was a minister, the prime minister was Milanovic, and we rarely had a chance to talk except in the current hour. On one such similar question I got Mr. Milanovic's answer why this is happening, he said people don't go after bread with their heads behind their heads. I am so responsible and accepted as an expression, as something that happened at that time, which is, we have entered the EU, and the fact is that we can't mate obviously at least in payments or in salaries or in salaries of some far richer countries and people are looking for their space to solve it there, which doesn't mean that the government doesn't have to do its best to not reach that level and not be better. We have to admit that we inherited the situation of the over-indebted country in which in only 4 years public debt has grown over 80 billion, that these funds are obviously not well spent, that we have not had the effects of increasing public debt, that we have inherited the excessive deficit procedure. So our finances were in trouble but all these other problems that culminated right from the start of this government's work. There's a lot that's been culminated in both 10 years and 5 and 3 and the fact is that we have problems that we need to meet and we have to deal with. What else is important in the context of the situation in which we live? It's certainly a matter of demographics that are being talked about more and more. We have the number of births relative to the number of deaths, in 2014, we had 39566 live births, 2015. 37503 a 2016 36372. So we have a continuous reduction in the number of live births in the Republic of Croatia. The number of deaths in 2015, 54 thousand 205, 2016, 52 thousand 034, the ratio of the dead to the live births is less than anywhere between nearly 17 thousand and that's what we need to worry about and the state has to make a move. The only thing that makes us happy in 2016 when we talk to some statistics that are important and for this law is the number of marriages made in 2016 that amounted to 20 thousand 544 or 710 more than in 2015. How did the state react? Here I think we're going with one, with a set of measures that simply reacts to the area not only of the social but in the area of what everyone's talking about, which is either a demographic or an attempt to offer opportunities for young people to stay, to base their families, to have children born and to simply create conditions for a better life for just the youngest generations in the Republic. Monday we passed a law, a law on maternity and parental benefits, which in 3 years provides an expenditure of 870 million kuna more than it was in 2016. These aren't insignificant means. When we add to this the measure that also tries to solve certain problems in at least one part, which is a housing issue for young families. We've heard how much this bill costs, and we'd all like to maybe offer 100 million subsidies. We might be able to if we have orderly finances, and all we need to do is offer it. The third measure, which was at the beginning of the term of office, was also a kind of tax reform that eliminated certain costs by pay. The wages were raised, of course not all equally, not as they always wanted most justly, but the fact is that one large part of the employees felt an increase in wages. We have to say that at the Employment Service we have 171 thousand and 717 unemployed. So never less unemployment and 18 thousand jobs open, most seasonal workers in catering and construction that we can't find. These are problems that we need to make clear, look the truth into our eyes and look for measures without overly politicizing. What this law has offered, I think it's well more or less, we've all added some of our ideas and what should be even better in it, when we bring it in, we can probably fix it if necessary, but the measure needs to be started and what we've already drawn out by budgeting. This law has been spoken of for more than seven or eight months, it's really time to bring it in. When we look at those credit conditions, I've already said today that it's something that's most favourable on the market, as far as housing or residential lending is concerned. So up to 100,000 euros, not less than 15 years, the interest rate most favourable, can't be greater than 3.75% and after 4 years it's possible to raise the same to 10%. War, what we're going to pay is half the deal, meaning either subsidizing half the agreed war in four years, which I think is acceptable and the biggest benefit. The property that we can get or buy based on this law is real estate, apartment, house and purchase and construction, but what is basic must have an act of building or using permission, which is a form of some state order, that we are in this means, clean and to encourage what has plagued us for years and we will discuss this later when we are another Law on Legalization and illegally built objects. So we're going to a clean job. The price of up to 1500 euros per metre of square maximum, of course does not limit anyone, may be higher but the state will subsidise up to 1500 euros. You can't buy an apartment that was built in the POS programme, which means already subsidized in a different way, also quite important. What's the big deal? It is important that if a person or a member, a disabled person or a disabled person is given another year in those 4 years of subsidisation, one incentive and that vulnerable group of our citizens. And the very important one that may be said at least today, but it was certainly mentioned, that demographic incentive in the part of the birth of the live birth of new children because if the family enters such a credit arrangement and in the first 4 years they pay off loans, adopts or is born into a family another or two live births, you get two more years, and two more years on these 4 years of subsidisation, and these are direct incentives to the very part that we seek, which is that we have more and more children in Croatia. These aren't insignificant means, as some say, they're really big. Now, could you be bigger? She could always be bigger, of course. In the budget we said we have so much for that purpose and let this start be a good incentive for everyone. What I think the ministry really needs to take care of is what we heard and as an observation when there will be a competition, to prepare these people, to take care of the rural space. We are not all in the same conditions, I argue, responsible that on my island where I live, 10 thousand people, we have young people, we have apartments, maybe more per capita than in some large urban environments, there are opportunities to do so but often the lack of information, the insufficient number of credit institutions in terms of banks passes past us and our young ones are leaving the island. I would like to really try when that competition comes that everyone is informed that we have the opportunity to get out of the rural space of people, not to lose such opportunities and not to lose everything we want to give to be only in the city of Zagreb or another major city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41545	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mrs. Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41546	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Boris, we all agreed almost today that this law that allows citizens to resolve their housing issue under favourable conditions is good and is one of the measures that will certainly encourage young people to stay in the Republic of Croatia. What I particularly welcome is the measure concerning demographic renewal and, when it comes to the birth of each child, that the subsidy is extended to the next two years. But coming from the ends of Slavonia from Brod-Posavina County from which I come, from which here are the young almost every day leaving more and more. I particularly welcome this measure regarding the purchase of older property. I sincerely hope that this is one of the good measures that will, of course, enable young families to try here to reach their first real estate, and I certainly hope that with a package of measures that will be taken by the Government and other ministries will be one of the encouraging measures for the survival of young people in all parts of the region, especially in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41547	Thank you. Mr. Boric, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41548	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maximchuk, here's the deal between you and me. Here may be a suggestion made after the law has been passed before the tendering of a media campaign for people to see it especially young people, to have one deadline or time to adapt. We know that everything costs, but the worst thing is if we really bring something and it stays in a tight circle of people and then I say voodoo is the most subtle ones in cities because they always have the best access to information, they have the best access to credit institutions, and of course we're surprised after a while why young people or other people are leaving us from rural areas. I think that every debate we have today has been aimed at, means that the law is supported and that we all submit together which suggestions and the ministry, so I think it's always been listened to by the Ministry of Parliament's representatives. I think they'll appreciate these little suggestions of ours just so that this measure goes on as best and as fair as it can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41549	Thank you very much. And sugar at the end, Mr. Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and my congratulations on your new duty in the eighth term, practically the most professional representative. So, by observing and observing this law, we can say that any help to young people is welcome. However, what I may be missing here in this law or perhaps thinking about for some future is, above all, my colleagues from my club were talking about that there are several methods that we help build housing. Some have been for more than 10 years and through them there is already plenty of money. First of all, I'm thinking about this housing savings where over a few billion kunas have been allocated. However, what I particularly miss here in a certain way is, unfortunately, young people today mostly get a job at a certain time. About women not to talk, because I think the other day when we talked about the Law on Gender Equality, then I think we didn't put too much emphasis on the particular problem of young women. But their husbands aren't in a better situation either. I think the law should provide for the possibility of a parent's judiciary or someone else who wants to pawn their property or give some assurance that young people who don't have a job indefinitely can compete for this loan. However, every good intention and every law that leads to some sort of solution always triggers some kind of political story. And we, unfortunately here today, some colleagues have become in a position to even misread the laws that have been passed in this House of Commons, to even speak wrongly about what they have brought only with one desire to attach themselves to someone, to say that they think of something, and we who are in power are bad and we don't think about it. And I just have to tell this story about real estate tax is something that's a faceless lie that's been running through here all afternoon. Croatia has committed at the time of signing EU entry documents to introduce a value added tax on building land as all other countries have. So, from the introduction of value added tax to the adoption of amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, you paid two taxes when buying a new apartment. You paid value added tax to that part of the building value of the apartment, while the IRS executed a tax on the sales of real estate on an all-quota part of the value of the building land relating to that property. And there was this property tax released by young Croatian citizens for the purchase of first real estate. And that's true. And it wasn't that amount as much as God knows the great, but any help is welcome and should be looked at. At the time when we simply applied what we had committed to apply, the real estate tax disappeared when we bought the new property. It remained a real estate tax when buying old real estate or when transporting real estate among citizens. But that real estate tax is diametrically opposite of what we're talking about here today. I called my colleague Maras before he left to tell him what I'm about to say so I wouldn't turn out to be talking until he was in the assembly. I still prefer to communicate with people here. So, in his debate, counterpart Maras said that the SDP does not require the release of VAT on these properties under this law, but look at what its amendment reads. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the following entry is added: ‘The apartment or house purchased under the terms and conditions laid down in this law shall not be subject to tax on value added tax and real estate tax. It can only be taxed on one tax. Not with two taxes, and that's what coming for a pay phone to say one thing, to make citizens like it, and make an amendment that's just different. And you know why his argument was like this? So when a fellow debate in counterpart Bacic warned that I was based on the EU directive and based on what the SDP did in 2013 when he abolished the zero VAT rate, he said something that didn't stand, but before that he wrote the amendment, so much about credibility as who cares for who. What I want to say is what I miss here in Article 7. I used to talk a lot about it a long time ago, when the Law on Incentive Housing Construction was passed, which is an upgrade. I think my colleague, Mrak Taritash, will support me in this, because construction and upgrades are very different in construction times and in financial terms when loans are given. I therefore think that this Art. 7 should be added to the amendment of the Government and upgrades, because many young people can resolve their living issue on the existing parents' house, grandmother of someone, and if we put upgrades here, then we will clearly define that we are lending to someone to lift the attic by a meter, which results in a building permit and therefore resolves their living right, but it's not building a house, it's an upgrade. And that's why I think the explicates here should emphasize the upgrade. My colleague, I know very well when we talked about business, it was also talked about, it wasn't, so in the end, none of the funds could get a job for what it was. And what as the former finance minister can't possibly accept, which is that none of today's colleagues and colleagues who talk so much to the public in this Chamber about the currency clause, about the kuna, this, this, this, that, today, have stopped anyone from talking about loans in euro and talking about the price of an apartment in euro. In Croatian laws, based on the 95's or 96' Regulation, he was then president of Mr. Matesha, but everyone forgot about her, must stand the kuna, and then can stand the equivalent of the euro. Because why? Kuna is a stable currency, nothing here would bother us if it cost 11,000 kuna. Also, nothing would bother us if instead of 100,000 euros, it says 750 thousand kuna. Today, tomorrow, when you go to the bank, if you agree with the bank that it's a credit with the currency clause, let the bank write it down. And why am I saying this? Because we in the Croatian budget provide kunas. In the light of this law, it says that we provide 17.5 million, and then 35 million kuna, so if we provide kuna for something, then we have to say that we're going to spend these kunas to finance something up to that amount and that amount in kuna. And I think there should simply be practice in this House of Commons, while we have the kuna, to use the kuna, and whoever lasts the euro must recalculate them. So that's something that just stings my eyes because it means 1,500 euros? And he, from the state budget, will be given interest in kunas, he will get a loan solution in kunas, tied to the euro, and will be such an interest rate. And as for war and annuity, I think it's unfortunately there, again those who have more can get a way of calculating interest and paying cheaper, and those who have less will tend to pay them more evenly, but ultimately, they'll pay more expensive. So I will personally support this law, I had to say some things for my club, because of my party, because simply some facts regarding tax do not stand and the HDZ did not abolish 1.1.2017 release to first real estate, but we simply had to adopt what we all accepted when we joined the EU. If the rate of construction land was no longer a property tax, but VAT, therefore, it is one fact, another fact that a colleague from which they have submitted an amendment to the VAT rate cannot do so without amending the law on added value, and it cannot change it because of the directive's EU, and in the end what I said, I would ask the representatives of the Government, if I could subscribe to the construction of the house with the construction of the house upgrade and request that these euros turn into our beautiful rabbits, while we have them to and use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41551	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, first Mrs. Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41552	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate you on your first session this way. Comrade Shuker, I thank you for removing the manipulations that we are constantly listening to, and I am sorry here that there are no colleagues of Maras that simply we young people do not know which and when we make a decision and can very easily manipulate ourselves with us, we really don't really care who made what decision, but we simply want to know that we won't encounter any dubiosis and problems when using this measure. However, my colleague Maras also talked about the problem with the application order, he has the most experience with it, because we all know what kind of image is followed by the entrepreneurial impulse, but these bad experience with the order of application as a result of the additional documentation which was questionable at the entrepreneurial impulse, and it is precisely the urgency of this law that all these documents are reduced and that the application is easier and that we simply start these measures as soon as possible, but I don't want to prolong it, that's what the citizens said more about it. So I want to say don't manipulate this law, because the young people I talk to every day, who wait and watch what happens to this law every day, when the debate is over, when we're going to vote on this law, it's probably the first time they're going to take credit and use it and they're not familiar with all these rules, but for the first time they're meeting credit finance. And this is neither the time nor the place to manipulate and deal with politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41553	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, you have the right to an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Roschin, it's one thing. Someone does something bad, then forget it, and now they want to impute someone else. I think colleagues from the government will do what is most important, which is that information on these loans is available to everyone, and we Assembly representatives pray to God and hope that there will be as many of our young citizens who will be able to access this loan at all. I think that's the point of the whole story, because when the terms are set, I said, depending on the maturity of the loan, depending on which they gave the wars, the anuities. The lowest annuity can be about 4.54 thousand and 600 kuna. Now take someone who has an average salary of five, six thousand kuna, two young people, if they have two small children such a loan without the help of their parents can't afford. But I say, God forbid there are as many demands as possible and God forbid that we are asking the government to make a budget next year an amendment to increase those funds. That would be a great thing. But I'm saying, after the information that will be offered and which should be available because I think after everything that's happened in the Republic of Croatia that every head of the state's administration is in the interest of making things as transparent as possible because no one thinks, and no one likes to be called out for something that doesn't stand. But I'm saying someone was filing for 12 o'clock at the post office there in Branimir's so it was ok, today it's not ok, but I sincerely hope you don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41555	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Glasnović asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41556	My colleagues, I listened briefly to Mr. Maras' exposure and it encouraged me to say something about our fiscal system. You remember maybe from the former state of that grant credit, they were privileged to get loans, they had ties up there in the party, etc. And with hyperinflation, those loans were, like, 50,000 marks in four, five months, how much a cigarette bill cost. But I think that Croats generally suffer from one fiscal illiteracy and that's the key thing. How can we have a parallel system in this country? One system legal for some and fiscal ones for others. It's all networked up, about these questions, for example. The man did not pay 200 kuna taxes closes, and you have upstairs in the River of Sirs who 500 people, 50 of their own actually forgives millions of debts, etc., etc. By what the problem is, does anyone here study comparative laws from other countries, simple laws. On loan, I was surprised when I came here from Canada, if you sign a phone contract, it's a legal document. More important documents are signed in the presence of a court of witnesses. If you put your... signature on it, it's your fault. How is it possible that people take interest from interest rates in housing loans rather than having a CNB reaction? It's a hiducia. And we have a parallel system. Finally, I would add this, if the European law is above the laws of the national states, why all the credits that are interest loans that are signed in banks where they take people's apartments, etc. They're not worth it in Hungary, and they're worth it here. Once again, political literacy, parallel system and hiducia at all levels, you have laws you have more laws than all Chinese empires thousands of years before Christ... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Well, just 11 seconds. So you have paper you can also build a new Berlin Wall, a mechanism for... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41557	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Shucker, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41558	A colleague of Glasnović, you have mostly replicated Maras to a part of me, but if I have a good memory of the last loans without a currency clause in the former Yugoslavia were given in the 10th month of '86. A year. And then the former Yugoslavia realized that it was so much more unsettling, that someone got a loan and brought it back with a matchbox, then the state had to pay for it. After all, part of the story of a few billion dollars was inherited by us when the former Yugoslavia fell apart. So a billion dollars, what did I say? ... Yeah, that's what I said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you know a colleague who was the first credit to be raised by the Croatian government in the 1990s? A billion million marks for the recovery of a failed banking system. It is the first loan that the new Croatian government has built in the 1990s, just what everyone forgets, all the geniuses who forget. When he says how much he owed to resuscitate that joy we inherited from the former Yugoslavia, the first loan there in the fall of the 1990s was a billion dollars. That's a fact. But that's why I told my colleague Glasnović that it would be good if we put in these documents that Kuna is a Croatian currency while we have it and that we are making financial documents based on it because our budget is in kunas and we vote it as such. That's how we're gonna make ourselves stronger. And this story, so much euro equivalent to kuna, we are still in Croatia. And as for Europe, we have committed at the moment of EU entry to stick to certain rules. So it's not that Brussels orders us to, when we sign certain documents, when we close certain chapters, we know exactly what we signed, what we're going to take over. And whoever says that's not true is lying. The same has been reported in this House, so these are facts and no one can say today that Brussels is ordering us. We wanted to come there, we accepted the rules of the game, and an honest man always sticks to what he accepted. Sometimes people didn't need contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41559	Thank you very much. The last replica of Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I would like to join you in congratulating all previous speakers for the post of vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shuker, I would only take as little time as it allows me to refer to the part of your exposure in which you put emphasis on and I think it is very realistic and I am glad that you mentioned this, the real situation that we have and the emphasis on the credit ability above all our young people. You've put an emphasis on that, and I absolutely agree with that, that only practice will show who's going to come up with this kind of credit, how many of our young families are either family, whether it's about young partners in marriage or out-of-marriage communities, if we all know what kind of loans these days are, how many wars, how many loans are they taking, etc. Now let me not count. And so it seems very important to be aware that, of course, the impact of every law adopted in this high house is only in practice and, of course, it will be interesting to monitor what is going to happen in practice and who is this population that will take credit, under what conditions and of course how banks will react, what kind of bank offer will be. And it seems to me that in the first place we should put the focus on accurate and timely information to anyone who is interested. But then not only that, but also following the next situation, because every law, however we pass it, does not mean that according to what the practice shows that we cannot recruit and improve it, not letting out the basic purpose of it, which is to help young families of one of the measures and the desire for our young to stay there, not to go out and to create living conditions for them as they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41561	He's responding to Mr. Shucker's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, look, you saw today when a colleague from the SDP started talking about how many Croats, unfortunately, went away in the last 2 years from Croatia, but it was taboo topic while they were in power. And I purposely mentioned today the credit capacity to simply say that we at HDZ are aware of the fact that we are aware of what conditions our children live in and that we are not looking ahead to it and that the next step that should be, I have also said one of the possibilities and that is the parent's judiciary of one of the loans. That's why I said that you should put upgrades here because by upgradeing the family home you with far less resources can provide a lot of living space. Because usually in the stages of life the day you're young, when you have little children, then you lack living space. There comes a time when children grow up and suddenly these rooms remain empty and you have extra living space. And that is unfortunately a fact in Croatia. And we don't need to prescribe to anything when we're passing laws. It is not the same situation in Zagreb, Samobor, Velika Gorica or in Sisak or elsewhere. The price of your apartments is 500, 600 euros per square. Therefore, we are so differently developed and exactly what we signed when we join the EU there for regional equality in the development and use of EU funds. So even when we pass laws like this, we must be aware of the fact that the situation is different. It is in our interest that these people stay in Sisak, stay in Topusco, stay in Slavonia. After all, even those who left did not meet them there with honey and milk, to create conditions for them to return and that they could raise their credit and settle their housing issues. And I think our intensity should go that way. Because young man, give him a job, let him handle the housing issue, and let him know that his child has until 7, 8 o'clock in the evening, if that's the need, you don't have to give him anything else. We have young people, smart people, and educated people, and they will handle all other things with the help of their parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41563	State Secretary Mrs Katica Prpic, asked for the final word, has the right to the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I congratulate you, I wish you a great deal of success in your work. Thank you very much. [[And I to you.]] Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Here I can say that this long - term debate is about a law that has a total of 34 articles, so it's not about a long article that has 150, 200, 300 articles, and then the debate takes a very long time. However, it is indeed a short law and has caused a lot of attention, which means that everyone cares. I would dare and say that this may be the first time and I think it is the first time that, with our laws of construction that are so professional, nomotechnical and thus, there is also a concern about demographics and demographic restoration. So let it be the first and one piece in one puzzle, and let it be in other ministries, and let it become the one that we talked about, and let all of us contribute together to further concern and attention. It's of paramount importance, we all agree, and we're all aware of the situation and the moment where we find ourselves that we really need to enable young people to start running on their own, as you said, Mr. Shucker, we have really young, capable people that we all as parents, as Parliamentarians, need to take care of. To give the final word and to this law is really hard because a whole series of you respected MPs have really given beautiful closing words that are difficult and difficult to repeat but I would refer to that transparency that we have all finally warned about. I guarantee you that everything will really be transparent, that it will be published in the national newspapers, in other media, especially on the pages of the Ministry of Construction and on the APN pages. We also accept the initiative to include as much as possible in the media space in a timely and precise way all the wide public. And normally the young people we put up to 45 this time, that's how it's supposed to be. I thank you, and I hope all the suggestions you have made, suggestions that we can apply to the amendments to the meaning of the adoption of the law we will consider. We'll accept what's possible. And once again, thank you and I look forward to the whole series of club representatives saying they'd back this bill. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41565	Thank you. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic was looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41566	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary of State, here in your final statement you did not specifically refer to my remarks that I said at the beginning but I know that you are probably considering considering them. I have to tell you only one piece of information, during the morning while the debate was here called me by several people with disabilities who did not need to buy an apartment, who had already done it a few years ago and said just eh that it was a few years ago that would have helped us a lot because with loans or annuities that still pay today they still have a number of other obligations to settle that cause their disability. So, it's not social like I said, it's normal circumstances because people with disabilities have to function normally, work, and thank God as long as they do. So here I believe that you will consider my proposal to extend the deadline for another year, if disability occurs in the family in these 4 years of co-financing, since, as I said, when a child is born, of course I support absolutely, demographics in the first place, but that is a happy environment, that is happiness for the family, and when the disability happens in the family, it is a blockage of the whole family, not for a year, not over, but in a long number of years, and here it would be good if we help them with at least these two years of co-financing of the additional, if disability happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41567	Thank you, Mrs. Lukacic. Would you like to add something to it, Mrs. Prpic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41568	Well, I can give my word that we're really going to consider it, I didn't specifically address your remarks, but thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41569	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and will, of course, be voted upon when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41570	Final proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 126. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, MP Gordan Maras and representative Goran Aleksic. I ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41571	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the first amendment is not accepted by the Government, for the reason that credit institutions will offer their credit products and what offer will include a loan payment plan according to the preferences of the customers themselves and by comparison by which citizens will choose the most favourable and acceptable option on their own. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41572	I'm sorry you didn't tell me what the amendment was first. Goran Aleksic, okay. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41573	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague, I think you're wrong at all. You did not oblige banks to offer repayments both in wars and in annuities, therefore the banks are not obliged to do so and they will not have to offer it, but will be able to offer only one option that is more acceptable to them. So I ask the vote, and I ask my colleagues from the government to accept this amendment because it is good for the citizens, and it obliges the banks to do what they absolutely should do. If the amendment is not accepted, the banks will not be obliged to do so. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41574	Okay. We are now voting on an amendment that the applicant does not accept. I find that the above amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes and has not passed. Now we move on to the amendment of our distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41575	The proposed amendment is not accepted for the reason that the same area is regulated by specific rules governing the entire tax policy and would not be subject to additional specific tax in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41576	Since there are no colleagues, Maras we must vote, so I am voting on this amendment which the applicant does not accept. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received the required majority. We are now moving on to the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee. We have two amendments to that committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41577	Thank you. The first amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41578	He becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41579	The second amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41580	It also becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I am now voting on the final proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act. Please vote. I find that most of the votes are 116 for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41582	It is now up to you: - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The rules of procedure concerning Article 190 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would anyone like to take a word on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ms. Dunja Magash, State Secretary at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of Parliament, here is the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. The applicable law entered into force on 4 August 2012 and until then it has been amended and supplemented. The basic purpose of this law is to legalise as many illegally built buildings as possible. And the adoption of this law reduces the number of cases where the possibility of building law is excluded and thereby increases the number of buildings that can be legalised. The time limit for temporary employment shall be extended for officials who make decisions on the state of play to the administrative authorities. It is proud to open a new deadline for the submission of applications by 30 June 2018 but under the same conditions, in the sense that an illegally built building visible on the digital orthophoto map dof5/2011 can be legalised, so it was built by 21 June 2011. In addition, the method of allocation of funds from retention fees is changed and thus ensures that the speed of the resolution of the request is maintained. In fact, 30% instead of 20% of the current funding, income is a unit of local and regional self-government, whose administrative body provides a solution to the state of play. It also increases revenue from 20% to 30% if this solution is made by the agency instead of administrative bodies. And 40 instead of the former 50% of the incomes are the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the institute of the Deputy Director of the Agency shall be introduced and the mandate of the Director of the Agency and its alternate shall be limited in such a way as to cease the Agency's work. It is possible to register a legal building in a catastra, and based on a solution to the state of play for an unfinished building instead of simply on the solution for the completed building. It also improves the effectiveness of law enforcement up to further clarifications and by removing doubts regarding the delivery of calls for solutions and other acts via an ad panel. By archiving the case file with the legal consequences of the legislation of buildings that have been legalized as completed, and by a series of other new-technical qualitative and quantitative changes to this law that will contribute to faster enforcement of legalisation. And here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to bring up some more data that he's regularly following and updateing our agency. With yesterday's 826 thousand 948 requests, 558 thousand 504 items were legally resolved, which means 67.54%. Of these, the counties and cities solved 478 thousand 695 items and AZONIZ solved 79 thousand 809 cases, the process of legal solutions in the offices ranged from 39 to 40% and even 100%. In the end, I'm going to point out one more time. That it is not a matter of new legalisation if there is an illegal construction after 21 June 2011, it will not be legalised under this law, regardless of the new period of application. This deadline will serve only those who, for objective or subjective reasons, have failed to submit an application for a solution to the performance, and those who have been rejected or waived in this procedure so far. In the end I will just say we accept the amendment of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament No. 84/1 because it's a new technical correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41584	Thank you, Mrs. Magash. We have two replicas. Miroslav Simic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41585	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I also congratulate and wish for successful leadership. The esteemed secretary of state is clear that this law wants to continue a good practice for me, a good idea with which it started in 2012. What I met as a parliamentary representative on the ground in talks with my fellow citizens in the office in Osijek I had three people who came to me with a proposal and a question of whether the state could influence in any way, and since I am not professional enough today that I do not have that information whether the state can in any way influence the price that architects and geodites hold today, given that they have their own Czech associations. This has now become a cost since both the state and the local self-government units have on several occasions reduced their burdens here to meet with the great burdens of these entrepreneurs, and in a conversation with one geodeticist, he told me that when enroling them today they still have to pay quite high fees in the cadastrian offices. So I wonder if that's true and if there's anything you can do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41586	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Shuker, second replica. Mrs. Secretary of State will eventually agree on all the replicas. Mr. Ivan Shuker, you're up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41587	Excuse me. Mrs. Magash, I agree with everything you said and a lot, this law has solved a lot of Croats' headaches. But what bothers me about that was a lot of speech when some other laws were passed and it doesn't go to this government or the past. I'm just curious if at this point we know how much money Croatian citizens have to pay for legalisation and what division there is between local self-government and the state budget. Because we've even brought in a special law on the restoration of Gunja. There's Mrs. Taritash, the Minister of Resort, and then it was said that the complete recovery would be financed from the legalization of the facilities. If we don't have a special record of how much money is based on a solution. The solution is an administrative act that produces a financial commitment. She has to be recorded somewhere, and based on that, I just haven't heard, I'm asking a question because then I think it'll open a little window for everyone to see better. So, because this isn't about small funds. There are citizens who have paid more than 150, 200 thousand kuna. So these funds can certainly improve the budget by doing more than a lot of people have decided for 30 or 25 years depending on how many units of local self-government have given a period of payment with a particular discount. Therefore, I think that record is something which at this point is equal to the tax debt records, as it is several billion kunas of income, the total income of the state and units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41588	Thank you. Third replica, Mr. Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to comment on one of the situations on the ground, or not one, but I'd say it's almost a rule now. Since then, we have come to our benches to propose this new law to extend our deadlines on the ground, especially in coastal municipalities, we have again experienced a wave of new construction and upgrades of what has been legalized so far. That's what you need to know. Here I invite you to pass only in the area of my town of Vodnjan where many people have their own cottages, where it has legalized during this past period. And now we've got another situation where there's a lot going on in the field. So people are just being misread by this one, so this extension for legalization. And they do upgrades, new constructions are being done, and I think you should really send the ministry's inspections on the ground to be much more rigorous, much better co-operated with local self-government units, to put an end to it because there's going to be a big mess again. If you allow me here is just another brief review of what my colleague Shuker said that in any case we should have insight into the amount of funds that have been calculated and how much has been charged not only for the state budget, but you know that some major procedures will have to be made in the infrastructure itself so that these legalized facilities can lead to the right function and regarding the water network, so electricity and also sewerage. Because if not this very purpose of having only a legalized object, and that structure if it isn't brought in, then we really put ourselves at risk later in the very exploitation of these, or the use of these objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41590	Thank you very much, Mr. Kleman. You want to answer the replicas now or everything at the end? All in the end. Thank you very much. As we have seen before, the committee's rapporteurs will not take the floor. I have to ask again because I asked too soon. Now we've got clubs. First Mr. Miro Simic in front of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41591	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. A few sentences on behalf of the club. So, at the very beginning, we will support this bill. So the idea for us is very good. It was born in 2012, however, in the implementation itself, we were not operational enough about what the figures were talking about. So here we have heard that from 826 and 827000 submitted requests to this day 558000 have been resolved, which tells us that within four years of the deadline until the requirements were then to be submitted, about 300 thousand requests have not yet been resolved. We have had one correction so far into the law, which has made it easier for local self-government units, it was a good measure, but I personally am a representative of an even more liberal approach to legislation that would further reduce costs, simplify the procedure, because we see that Croatian citizens have an extremely difficult situation with it, I am speaking out of position, perhaps unlike colleagues from Kleman who come from a position where we really have the use of such provisions by people who have financial resources and who can invest in large illegal facilities, while in Slavonia, it is unfortunately whether the extended house or the closure of a balcony or something like that, and because of that, perhaps from the climate from which we come we are somewhat different in the very approach. What I think is good in this bill is that there will be an increase in the allocations for local self-government units, that they will be provided with new employment, we also support changes in the agency, the introduction of a deputy director's institute, and certainly a deadline for extending the request by 30 June 2018. What we want to suggest as a club, the last time this measure was very popular, it was written about for weeks, literally, citizens were directed to move with it, I'm afraid this extension is going to experience something different. Therefore, that the public focus is not so focused on this and therefore I recommend that the ministry pursue the popularisation of the measure, first to the citizens and then to the units of local self-government, which in my view have not all shown up enough to implement this project. So we have completely different approaches from individual units that gave significant discounts in municipal contributions to some that didn't do it at all. My personal position and position of the Club, ultimately, is that units of local self-government should help their citizens to legalise, reduce costs, and open information offices in their headquarters, to get as much information as possible. I don't think some members of the local self-government unit have even recognized the opportunity of long-term charges, whether municipal fees or future real estate taxes, properties that can significantly increase their incomes. And I finally believe that I will get an answer about these prices held by certain associations because I hope that we can achieve some discounts in the negotiations, if we can't, I think it's worth a try. Finally, I would like to say that the Independent Lists Bridge supports this proposal and we hope that the deadlines for resolving cases after these increased financial resources and the introduction of new workers will be significantly reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41592	Thank you very much, Mr. Simic. You have one replica from Mr. Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, again, I have to go back to what I said in the previous replica, not only in the area of my city, but in the entire coast, you have one phenomenon, so especially in Istria that a very large number of foreign citizens have properties in the area, given our cities and municipalities. Here is specifically the town of Vodnjan in the area between Pero and Barabariga you have several thousand cottages that they have legalized. It's practically not cottages anymore, it's some other country's tourist facilities, and we're also aware that they're black-rently renting themselves to abuse, so this House of Restaurant Services Act and our inspections can't cover it, we have only two tourist inspectors in the entire Istrian county. Which is absurd. But that's a question for another debate. But I would like to say, therefore, that I would also like to say that it seems to me that this new distribution is more just than that which has been so far, but I don't think it's enough in relation to local self-government, because here if 40% gets state funds than prescribed, what these other incomes are said to Colloquisically, 30% gets the city and 30% gets the city if I issue that solution if I'm not wrong... Okay, but if the question is that he doesn't have his own management department, then it gets county, right? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, he's getting county, so... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now I'm asking you, part of it needs to be invested in that infrastructure. So the county won't invest in that infrastructure, you're aware of it yourself, if it's only divided into city halls. The resources will then be something, if it isn't, then other problems. [[Thank you, Mr. Kleman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41594	I'm sorry to interrupt. I can't stretch you for the reasons of historicity. Here you go, Mr. Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41595	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Kleman, I agree with you that the amounts heading towards the units of local self-government could be even higher, I've always been in favour of having more significant fiscal decentralisation. As far as construction itself is concerned, as I said, we come from different climates and of course we look at this problem differently, but what I would like to emphasise is how familiar I am, so it's still not about new legalizations, it's about being able to legalize buildings built by 2011, somewhere in mid-2011 if I'm not wrong. So even the ones you see now that they're building something up, if we have quality footage, we won't be able to legalize it, of course, provided we have quality footage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41596	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club and the Croatian Retirement Party, Mrs Anaka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41597	Thank you very much. Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Vice President Fury Radin on the new duty he is determined to perform. Dear colleagues and colleagues, colleagues from the ministry, we have before us an amendment to the Law that we all know as the Law on Legalization of Buildings. Otherwise, there was always a good practice at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, which is that the minister was present at the law, so there when I was a resolute minister, I was myself. Mr Kuščević did not miss being here with us as much no matter how long it took, so now we have one new practice that there is no new minister, but I guess it's still some transition period, so there is another obligation is the vice president, but it would certainly be good for the parliamentary representatives that today there are three laws from that portfolio, so it's good that we are here. The law on legalization as we now have third amendments was passed in 2012 in July and I must say that he left no one indifferent. He did not leave indifferent those who worked legally because they said check little we had to build all the project documentation, we had to pay a number of givings in order to build at all, they did not remain indifferent or lawless builders who took some examples which unfortunately were not true but had very conveniently handled examples of Slovenia and Serbia, it proved that it was not true as there was legalization with one day everything was legalized, it simply did not. There's not a fellow architect left indifferent, I'm the same architect who said, so now we're legalizing something that's not very good, we should have some teams that would evaluate what to legalize that isn't. Otherwise, when it comes to regulation, I have always tried, and I have always been a representative of the fact that as little as possible we have the ability to assess someone discreetly and we always leave some questionnaires above. When this law was done then it was dealt with by some fact that about 100,000 illegal objects in Croatia and somehow we were thinking of 100,000 to see if there was enough power, enough capacity, enough everything. As you can see from this figure, it has proved to be significantly more. Not so many buildings but there are different upgrades, upgrades, auxiliary facilities, closing logs, a series of situations that simply couldn't be solved differently than this way. Equally, we gave a deadline until we had to apply for what our people were always waiting for some last moment and it was really there he said I think that it was fellow Simic who said that she was strong was propaganda about what legalization was, which is what she should be for, for which she should take advantage of that opportunity and there was no day that we didn't talk about it. Out of these 800 thousand demands from these 500 thousand and something legally resolved is really solved I think that somewhere hundreds of thousands remain unsolved, my colleague was talking about legally resolved demands, so it goes only by power those who have been solved, and yet there is still no power standing somewhere incomparably more buildings, incomparably more things because on one request there were 3.4 solutions. Since our people have one custom so as to remember the deadline but no matter you will give up, I even had the example was 30 June Croatia enters the EU, calls me the day before my colleague who is an architect and says I have heard that you will extend the deadline. I say look, I don't know where you heard it from, I'm really telling you we're not gonna extend the deadline. I remember really these images because it was one law that was enough and the media received its space, Croatia enters the EU, we all look forward to it, and in the city of Zagreb and in the post office of Branimir's tail people who could receive the demands by midnight, people still make demands. There were an awful lot of empty shirts, there were about 200 grand only dedicated demands to take advantage of that deadline. The way that this legalization was decided was for people to get a job at a certain time because it was the only way to get rid of that large amount of stuff. And this is actually a real example of decentralisation. This means that it was given to solve cases and that solution paid for by the people who solve these items. This amendment and the addition of the law is good by this amendment and by supplementing the law is regulated by what was seen to be a problem. That's where three topics should be seen. The first topic is that it has decided to give the legalisation deadline once again, each time it should be stressed only to be implemented under this law, to get a solution to the state of play for what was recorded as illegal by 21 June 2011, nothing behind that. It has a variety of attempts to prove it with two witnesses, so it can come up with anything. For what reason was it decided? It's decided what's going on in the field. As usual, in some other situations we have a good time and in this situation it is clear and unequivocally said on the ground that you happen... professionally they made demands. So you have project offices or you have even law offices that gave you empty ten shirts, and then the ones that didn't turn in in time, then they made money on it. The same thing happened to you, people didn't believe it, so it's your problem... they first thought the deadline would extend, and secondly they said no matter what legalization. When it was seen it wasn't going to be like that, then there was this mess. So now you have a friend who has submitted a request for legalization in Split, now you are asking that your request he joins in Split then that Split gives it to Zagreb then each office interprets it in a different way and believe it from these 500s and some thousands I think it may be close to a million buildings which are also buildings that have been solved and how many solutions have been issued I had an example to see in one number of 3, 4 solutions. That's why this is good. And what must be done further, must be continued and legalised on an important deadline, because once again the last attack will be in the last month, everyone will wait until the last month as we usually do. So the first topic is a deadline. The second topic is this famous article 6 why am I talking about the famous article 6? Article 6 was defined what could not be legalised and then, through practice, proved to exist and in the debate at the first reading of the law, we discussed that there are some situations that would professionally be acceptable to legalise but not possible because of the provisions of Article 6. What am I talking about? You have, say, the infrastructure corridor, that infrastructure corridor is defined, it's consummated. And that's where the building is. It doesn't bother anyone, it doesn't bother that infrastructure, it exists, but because of the provision of Article 6 it could not be legalised. Article 6 is now amended, it is possible to legalise, provided that otherwise those who otherwise give special conditions. So around below the power lines, HEP if it is located on the pipeline, Plinacro or already who manages the infrastructure or local infrastructure who manages which gives opportunity as would give special conditions if it were to build a new building, so it gives conditions and criteria under which it is possible to legalise. And so there's what the Secretary of State Mrs. Magash said that now she'll be able to repeat her demands and someone whose request has been denied. It's good to know and say, someone whose request was denied because it couldn't be legalized because he was behind 21.6, because he's in other elements he's still going to be looking for a new request he won't be able to get. However, those to whom the request was rejected because it was in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 and the provision of Article 6 has been eliminated, which cannot be repeated by the request and will be able to obtain legalisation. The third topic is work for a certain time. The entire law on legalisation and the entire work of the Law Agency is complex in a way that takes time to legalise. When legalization stops, so do they. Likewise, people received themselves for a certain period of time with legalization, which was good. They got a chance to work, got a chance to gain experience. Many of them were left behind because they proved to be good and then there was one problem because we wanted to change the law so that the possibility of working for a certain time and we were able to find among all the papers that I took with me one thought that in the material regulation it could be said that certain jobs could be done for a certain time and it is three years old. That means offices can take people, these people can work for a certain time up to 3 years and they are paid from those funds 30% of the funds that go for office work and that's good. That's where my colleague Shuker asked Mrs. Magash a question about the funds, so no one would mind me answering part of it. Therefore, the Agency shall closely monitor the funds that have been paid and precisely exist in paragraph 43 in particular in the budget of the ministry to which the funds go into the state budget. It is known exactly how much he received which office for the work of the legalization office and how many have received certain municipalities and cities and it is not little. I remember, I asked for it when I was a minister, every week I got it, even when I asked the Minister of Finance at one point when he went to the municipalities to ask them how they spent those funds because it was big funds. Try to imagine how much funds are in the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb had 100,000 items, it had more or less resolved its items and 50% of the funds then, now we will go 60% to the city of Zagreb and, therefore, the municipalities and cities, the part they received had to be spent on refurbishing the infrastructure, and the state spent part of its assets from that item 43 on flooded areas in the area of the cvelferium and the rest should be for a cadastre, for help in spatial planning, for defining e-plans and everything else. It would be very interesting and it's not a problem, so the agency is running it, so you can even ask for it so that you can list yourself to see, you have, and, therefore, I know that at week level I wanted to see it. And it would be very interesting to see which municipalities and cities really took advantage of it. I remember that one municipality from the funds it received after a year and a half of legalization made it a kindergarten. One of them built a drain and a wastewater treatment device. There are some where your numbers are huge. It's something that would be convenient in the future to see, really how they spent it. 30% and it's your start, you've had a lot of resources because in the beginning they've really legalized large objects. And then as the legalisation went on, they remained auxiliary, so there were very many negative solutions that were nothing but small means, and it would be really good to see that they were being spent further because the purpose of legalisation was, firstly, to expose the buildings, to get legal status, that they could be enrolled in the cadastre, and that from the means that came to the expense of legalisation, they actually went back to space, so with the equipment, with the infrastructure, along with the public facilities, along with the catastrases, with all the elements that they were, that's where I think a little fell asleep but I hope they'll get rid of that too. In other words, what am I saying? I really commend the ministry for deciding to go with two readings. In the second reading, we received the deputy director of the agency, and apparently it was decided that it was necessary for certain reasons, so we got it unlike the first reading. But what we get, we get that we have really in the law that people can be employed for three years, we get that you still decided to loosen up that provision of Article 6 which is good. We will, of course, support this amendment and the addition of the law. There's two things to insist on. So when you pass a law of law like this, then you have to have some defense mechanisms. Defense mechanisms that you don't have the lawless construction you're talking about. You achieve these defense mechanisms in two ways. The first way you have all the spatial plans that we all have, so all the municipalities and cities have and that the e-registration that's a little sleepy but I hope you'll move on now, so you'll be quick to issue building permits. And the second is that you have an inspection that's on the ground. So that's two things you have to have. The inspection has to be on the ground, there's an e-inspection project that we started, so I hope it will continue, so you have to, when you have this kind of legalization law that's relatively simple, which is relatively easy to implement, which you can get the legal status of objects then you have to have a defense mechanism that you don't have the same situation for 10 years. This means exclusively for the purpose of inspection, inspection must be on the ground, bringing down the demolitions and the inspection law has allowed that if someone is building where they can't get permission that within 8 days a solution and demolition can be made. I'm afraid it hasn't been applied in the past, but it has to be insisted on that, because it makes a whole package of sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41598	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Ivan Shuker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues Mrak-Taritash, so two things, first in the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, clearly state what needs to be done, but I think that Croatian citizens are interested in how much the funds have been raised and how much money has been spent on units of local self-government, but everything that has done good legalization, it has shown something else parallelly, and that is how bureaucratic Croatia is and how our administration is not functioning. So you get a legalization solution, you pay your commitment, you have to go it doesn't matter this no longer has to do with political parties connection, this is depending on how the city works. You have to go to get the stamp on the power of the solution, then you have to go to cut you up a new communal fee of the water and everything that is paid on the basis of the new square and then you finally have to wear the papers to enrollment in the garland. If we're talking about the information bar being connected then it would be logical for one who issues a solution to it. This is how you run about a hoho. But we also have to admit one thing: once again, we've given one caste of people a clean profit, just like it used to be with public notebooks when they started and with legalization. So the whole geometer story, the architects who did it all together, this, this, what, 15, 16 thousand kuna per object. So that's how it was. But I'm saying to a lot of people, there's a rock that's been removed from their hearts and a great burden because they've legalized something that they've spent their whole life in. But I repeat, this job has proven to us how highly bureaucratized society we are and how in one work the service is not working without telling us what a failure of state and local services is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41600	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41601	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shuker, you and I have been working in different ways with regard to the state administration for a long time, and I can absolutely agree with you. At two o'clock today, I had to go to Ilica to personally take one piece of paper to put a term of office in the local elections. I couldn't do it with an e-mail, I couldn't do anything, I just had to show myself there personally and I gave the paper if it was enough. ...in all other ways, there's both OBI and everything else. So we meet with it every day, and of course we must strive not to do so in the future. It's just that there's really no reason to make sure that if you have a little time so you can go to the Ministry's pages and you can see that one map you can see is called and right there you can pick up and see exactly which houses are legalized and then they have one such house so you can see who has legalized and what is legalized, so anything is possible. But then when you get to these forms you really have a solution and then you have to go especially cadastre, so we have to work and we have to do it, and not only do we have good platforms, but we really do it. It's kind of when you're doing a job that's picturesque and I believe something a little bit more possible, a lot more in the same portfolio and the State Geodetic Administration. Unfortunately, that's not how it is yet, but we need to strive that I believe that when the ISPU is working and when it's all together, and it's going to be in about five years if we break our legs hard. And we need to be aware that this is because not everyone is properly prepared, but we always lose some adjustment period, so then that adjustment period should be something smaller. Because this ISPU is a good program and we can really get everything out of it just let's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41602	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41603	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues here in your debate you pointed out that there was a really large amount of funding from these penalties and these fees, but this should be put in the context of where they were being collected. If we have raised funds to seal the balcony or lift the floor in a communally arranged settlement, etc. Then it's really big funds because already one part of the municipal infrastructure is solved if not the whole. But when you come to the islands, when you come to the shores where you open up in agricultural land entire settlements of several hundred buildings, houses, cottages where you have to bring absolutely the entire infrastructure several kilometers to these facilities then the question is whether these funds are enough to build that infrastructure it will need. The entire areas have already been devastated in advance and I would say irrevocably lost because in these areas no further development can occur, especially in these tourist areas, but local self-government units are obliged to at least do something about the quality of this infrastructure leading to these facilities. So the question of what big funds are and not those big funds everywhere is the same as to interpret. And I have to comment on this and I definitely agree with you that this inspection should be much, much more present. What we all know, which is that deadlines are being abused, so new constructions are going. When you see now with the orthophoto when the object is recorded it is seen in some kind of floor, they are already rising upstairs on objects that have received legalisation solutions where they will try to underline more things in this matter. So I want your comments on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41604	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41605	Thank you very much. In this second part, I think we agreed. So if you have a law like this, if you allow a relatively simple number of buildings to be legalized then you have to have a really strong defence machine that must be on one side quick issue of the license. I have reasons why in Croatia there was a relatively large number of illegally built buildings. And when you analyze a little, then it says slow licensing. And really when you're talking a little bit and someone's waiting for their license or waiting for three or four years, in three or four years, he's really got a six-time breakdown and he's doing something, and you can't blame him for it. So that's one thing, and the other thing is inspection. The inspection must be in the field. Construction inspection your job can't work from the office, it has to be on the ground. There are even apps that you can follow exactly when building what is not built. I've been working for a long time. I remember sometimes when I started working in the city of Zagreb then the construction scouts were called. These were people with medium professional equipment who were tasked every day to visit a number of streets and come and report where the cement and sand were purchased, where it was located. It's just being recorded whether or not it's being built there. There was no e-authority, there was no ISPO or anything but that was the way it was done. And then only the inspector would come and see there's, there's, there's, there's, there's not and he's doing his job. Now we have everything, but we have that fact. When it comes to the means that made sense. So 30% of the funds went and goes to municipalities and cities. The municipality and the city conclude that space has been devastated and that there is not enough from these funds. And then it appears to the state and the state gives out of these other funds that have been in state aid to bring that devastated space to the point. It's not just about utility equipment. This is also about playgrounds and kindergartens and everything else. If you have and indeed do, we have new settlements on agricultural land with 200, 300 houses. It's a completely different story. She's looking for not only a road, a waterway, a sewer, but she's looking for a playground and a park and maybe near a kiddie, a kindergarten or a school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41606	Thank you. We are now moving on to the next debate of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives and distinguished counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41607	Thank you, well-respected president, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. We also look forward to the fact that the promoter recognized the need to extend the deadline for the application for legalisation, because we know that many of our citizens for various reasons from those financial to non-informities, and perhaps because of their sloppyness they did not apply in time, it would not be fair or wrong for their children to have problems, that their children in these facilities that they could not work, rent or tomorrow that investment, or that facility has less value since there is no orderly resulting documentation. All of us who come from local self-government rejoice and recognize the need to increase and the amount that will remain for the county. In my opinion, this amount should be a percentage even higher, because it is indeed a great deal of work to be employed by a large number of employees. This, of course, requires both the resources and the time, and therefore the establishment of the agency in general, was not necessary for us to create this new institution and design it has shown, and now that we have seen how much of the matter has been resolved in the agency that it may have been better to leave the greater amount to the units of local self-government or regional (regional), county offices, strengthen them and give them the opportunity to solve as many cases as possible within this period. If we go back a little while when the legalisation started in 2011 we talked about the number of about 300,000 buildings that are assumed not to be made in accordance with the law and spatial-planning documentation and which will need to be legalized. Now we see that there are over 826000 of them. We assume that even after the extension of this deadline, we will not have a final number again and that there will likely be some objects that will be left without paper and necessary legalisation documents. At the time, the question was whether it was constitutional, whether it was okay after several constitutional lawsuits, it proved that the real state had the right to legalise and deal with these facilities and properties in this way. We, as people, can all and citizens wonder how many of our citizens gave up construction because their land was not allowed to build in accordance with spatial-planned documentation, according to spatial plans could not produce documents, they had no funds to pay from the geodetic footage of the project documentation of the municipal water contribution and the like. And that's why they gave up construction. On the other hand, we had our citizens who were braver, they did it all, and now they have objects. We made it possible as a state to legalize them. However, these are far larger and more complex questions that led our citizens to such a situation, perhaps why we didn’t react at the outset when the lawless builders first started. We are also pleased that the legislator recognized some of the remarks and suggestions that we made when we first read at the third session held on 3 March this year, so we have from the termological harmonisation of the law to the clearer regulation of certain issues. The proposal of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction reduces the number of cases where the possibility of building law is excluded and thus increases the number of buildings that can be legalised, which is also the tendency of this law. In addition, a time limit shall be laid down for temporary employment of officials who make decisions on the state of play in the administrative bodies. In a clearer way, the issues of buildings that can be legalised by one and the same solution to the state of play are also regulated. We had a case and solutions there when one solution was legalized by two buildings of the same investor, but it is a matter of different particles of the country that are hundreds of meters away, so the question is whether it can really be solved by one solution and how tomorrow when one of the buildings is sold. Or if it's the same particle of the country, but the different investors, so I know about cases where the neighbor failed to apply in time for legalisation, a good neighbor offered to even unite particles so that they could do so with the same requirement. In addition, the changes we have from first to second reading allow for the completion of unfinished buildings as a social building, if requested by the applicant, which is an exceptional good and apprehension of the provisions of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, which provides for a temporary suspension of the procedure for removing an illegally built building, extended and in cases where a request for a solution in a state of conduct is filed under this law. We just heard a lot about how construction inspection works, and I don't think it's just a construction inspection, but other such and similar services, we have a shortage of those employees, they don't have quality working conditions, and we know that when it comes to building and we know that lawless builders know how to often start building right on weekends or before the start of some holiday, in 3.4 days, it's already a whole building, and a little who and little where to decide to tear down such publications, so here's a pay phone to think about how to strengthen our construction inspection, create them the best and better conditions, so that we have as few illegal builders and with these laws finally established the real state and legalized all existing facilities. The HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41608	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is a distinguished colleague, Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41609	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's your colleague, and that's where you said in your statement that it really came out to meet our citizens about it. So new legalization and old legalization, but I'd like to say a few words about the legalization used by foreigners. So, especially on our coast and islands. We can't, these are all citizens of more or less the EU, so we're all citizens of a great country of Europe, but I have to tell you that in terms of tourist offer we've got strong competition. So the legalization act itself is practically put into space they have obtained building permits and allows this facility to be legalized in a tourist offer. You now have a situation that our neighbours of Slovenians, especially in that northern part of Istria, have entire settlements that are legalized and rent it as one corporation, so these settlements and perform on foreign markets. Tax is a question of how it goes, it can't be very well controlled, but that's why we created our own competition, we took a part of the branch we're sitting on, and that's where we, as Croatian citizens, created our own competition. These same people who have built these buildings are our guests who have been coming to our shores for years and are now in their homes, not using our services, not increasing our budgets and not working on that part of the budgeting, which is the consumption that happens in the Republic of Croatia, because everything earned goes to another country and it is a pure Gustrabiter approach and certainly does not contribute to our budget in the way that we, as Croatian citizens, contribute to our work, and we know ourselves that the entire budget is based on consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41610	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41611	Thank you very much, so esteemed colleague Kleman, foreigners as builders, and especially as lawless builders is something that makes me particularly sad. First of all, it's like that stranger's relationship to our country. I'm convinced that he wouldn't do such a thing in his country, come to us and do where he wants him to and what he wants him to do, and then we let him, of course, get the papers, that's a lot of saying that he just beats us like that. If that can be done in Croatia, we must do our best not to allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41612	Thank you. Second replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41613	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, on the trail of what Mr. Kleman said, and from your presentations, I remember when there were talks about the first legalization that Mrs. Mark-Taritash would have, when we talked about about 300 thousand illegal objects, then you said there would be a lot more, and you also realized that it was even more than 800 thousand, there would probably be more. The deadline for submission of applications shall be 30 June 2018. I think we should think about those people too, so Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia, that's one thing. The other thing I'm warning you about is one residence bill that's... a large number of Croatian citizens who have problems with the Law on residence, so that the new deadline may take care of such things, and this will not be repeated what Mr. Kleman said which I knew... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] apostrophyrate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41614	There is no reply to the replica, so I call on behalf of the motion secretary of state at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the spatial arrangement of Dunjo Magas for final address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41615	I'll be as brief as they told me, here I thank everyone for this constructive debate that was today and in the first reading, and I'm glad we went in two readings, because that's how we made it possible for many things to be finished and built into those concepts that we might have wanted but we were also afraid, but here we were able to install them into this second reading The Final Proposal of the Law on Law. And I will only give an answer to Mr. Shucker's honourable parliamentary representative, as regards the revenues related to legalisation so far, by 31.12.2016, a billion 318 million 612 thousand 73 kuna has been received, and our agency keeps this record, and according to the law of Article 37. The law on law enforcement must also be introduced by local units as well as issued solutions on the state of play. And on our site, the Ministry of Construction publishes our agency's annual report every year and last year's report goes to the government next week and will then be made public. Here's a thank you to everyone one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41616	I thank the secretary of state and close the hearing. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 84, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and thus became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 119 votes to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. The current law came into force on 1 January 2014, the draftr of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We think we're going to make this law a series of improvements, and we're going to do it in the following ways. The act on spatial arrangement with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for the spatial planning of the marine area, allowing spatial planning in the protected ecological and fisheries band of the ZERP and the epicontinental band of the Republic of Croatia, creating legal frameworks for the use of the ZERP-A and the epicontinental belt in accordance with the relevant provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, emphasising the interaction of land and sea and cross-border cooperation on sea planning, supporting and facilitating the implementation of spatial planning of the maritime area. It improves the effectiveness of law enforcement in the following way, further defining or redefining certain concepts that work in law, building gross surface, urban planning, non-building procedures and basic infrastructure. They undertake to make certain spatial and other data available through the spatial planning information system, delete the suspension of a valid decision on the development of a spatial plan in the event of a new decision on a spatial plan, extend the circle of construction, whose construction can be planned outside the construction area, above all, the thoughts of the recycling yard for construction waste within the exploitation field, more clearly regulate the question of the conditions for planning in the protected coastal area, improving the protection of that area and introducing the ministry's consent to adopt a general urban plan in this area, and the obligation to give its opinion to the county office for spatial planning on the proposal of the GUP, repealing the deadline for giving that opinion. An explanation of the spatial plan as its component shall be introduced. The responsibility of the authorised architect shall be separated from the responsibility of the authorised geodetician, allowing for the establishment of specific conditions prior to the construction of the idea project and a clear provision shall be made for jurisdiction in the event of refusal of the application for specific conditions. It shall be possible to issue a local authorisation in cases where the obligation to issue such authorisation is not prescribed, if requested by the party. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is possible to monitor the law enforcement of local self-government units instead of only their administrative bodies so far. The number of cases in which the owner may transfer undeveloped building land planned by the urban planning to the ownership of local self-government units and extends the time limit within which the local self-government unit is obliged to pay the land transfer fee. Finally, the deadline within which spatial plans adopted under the laws which were in force before the Spatial Regulation Act and a series of nomotechnical and professional amendments which will, in any case, improve the implementation of this law shall be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41620	I thank the secretary of state. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, Maria Jelkovac, chairman of the Committee on Law? No, I don't. Bernarda Topolko? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, distinguished counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41621	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning for the third time. The first time was in that government that was Prime Minister Oreshkovic so there was no second reading, so then we had a first reading a few months ago and now we have a second reading and it might actually be good to establish a certain relationship between this law and the Law on Lawless Buildings or Legalisation. When a little legalisation is legalized and there are few reasons why legalisation is in Croatia and when you do so, for example, by respecting scientific methods, then everyone says that there are four reasons why such a large amount of illegally built objects occurred in Croatia. So the first reason economics as people didn't have enough resources so they bought land that wasn't intended for construction but it has those hot stories, the building cost you the same thing compared to the building material that you install in it but the final price is different. It's different whether it's in the construction area whether it's in a good location or not, and then it was very symptomatic. The other thing was that at one point there was a huge expansion, i.e. leaving rural areas in cities, and then there were really some changes that were more sociological. The third reason was the slowness of issuing building permits and indeed I can understand it and the 4th reason was the lack of spatial plans. Croatia can truly boast a long tradition of spatial planning, a long tradition of spatial planning. Of all of its 556 municipalities and cities, all 556 municipalities and cities have come up with spatial plans. There's also a termology that our investors really like to use, and I have to admit, I've been doing more or less spatial planning my whole life has always raised my hair on my voice when someone said give it to me just plan it. Now, that plan means, I know exactly what I want, and now you just put it in my plan. Is it appropriate, whether it doesn't fit, whether it has a good traffic connection, whether it's in context it doesn't interest them. It's getting smaller and smaller. One of the good plans and good instruments is the urban planning. We were prone as we have a tendency in everything that we then planned, that is, through the adoption of spatial plans of municipalities and cities, we had a number of urban plans, wherever we didn't know the solution, and there someone drew that the commitment of the urban plan was an arrangement, and it decreased over time, and this change and the addition also defines. I'm looking at my colleague Kleman, there was a small municipality in Istria. I remember a seven, eight years ago and she came to terms with her spatial plan to arrange the municipality, she had 117 UPUs. And now I'm asking that chief, I say let me know now when you think that the 117 UPU could be made because for each UPU you need a decision to make, so you need to, then someone needs to do, and then a public debate, so consent, so make it. Who's going to do it physically? But where did you get the money for it? No, no, no, just let them stay, evil shouldn't. Through this practice, however, this number of UPU has decreased significantly, through the law, through the legal provisions we have reduced significantly, so that's good, that's one good plan and one good way to do it. These amendments and additions were in principle made, so in 2013, we adopted this Law on Spatial Planning, which entered into force on 1.1.2014. I'm one of those people who thinks you shouldn't pursue idealism, if you're trying idealism, then it takes a long time. I think it's much better to pass the law, put it in application, in applying to see what if there are problems and then you always have the opportunity to make and amend and supplement the law. This amendment and the addition of the law is in principle all that has proved to be a small problem in practice, in order to simplify and in that part I support. I have here two dilemmas that I said the first time I spoke, the second time, I'm going to repeat it the third time, but these are professional dilemmas between people, some people in the ministry and me obviously, these are two topics. One topic for the explanation to be an integral part of the spatial plan is that there is no need, although there is quite a detailed explanation of what and how and how and exactly we know why it is there but good. And the second topic is that you have at one point more decisions on making and supplementing spatial plans. We said through the law that there must be one decision that can be changed and complemented. Now again, it's possible for you to say that at one point you can have 6 decisions on making and supplementing the spatial plan. I had a few cases that I really did, so no one knew what decision you were completing. Is that the first decision, the second decision, the third decision, so you had the first and second decision that wasn't completed by the third. But they are, the conclusion is that that's the case. In doing so, we need to know that spatial planning and spatial arrangement are also closely related to other things. So when I'm on the 3rd year of architecture you get for the first time a college that's called spatial planning and then in the first hour, I remember it very well, I guess I'm already at the age when I remember more what was before and not what was yesterday, you have a teacher who says, spatial planning is closely related to politics. So at another time, at a time of non-party. And then I thought to myself, what this man is saying. Well, man's telling the truth. You know, spatial planning is actually at the level of the municipality and the city, the development policy of a municipality and of a city, at the state level, the state development policy and you through one strategy or through the country's spatial development plan for one state see what the country's development policy is in 2030, in 2040, you need to see it today. There at some point was the last spatial plan that Croatia had, it was the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia when we were behind it we decided a little different which was not strange, we were war-broken country, the first law on spatial order was from '94. with the desire to get as many investors as possible. But now I get to what I'm taking this opportunity, and here's the late, spatial arrangement and my theme, and then let me have a little bit more and emotions and a little more and I care a little bit. So there's always two ways you can access it. One way is for you sectoral, that each sector works for itself and another way is integrated to see all these sectors through the country's spatial plan. Europe has for a long time and Croatia has always decided on this integrated one in its development. And now we have something that unfortunately has such a sad history that is a strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in '97. and at another time where Croatia was destroyed by war, where we had to work through this Strategy, the infrastructure that it is independent of all other countries, so one completely different context. And somewhere in 2013, 2014 and 2015 we worked intensively on a new strategy of spatial development, managed to carry out all and the environmental impact assessments in the summer of 2015, and all that was needed and unfortunately the 2015 Assembly did not put this strategy on the agenda because it decided to put the law only, although I was praying, kneeling, crying, not succeeding, for the first time. The second time comes the new minister and now talks, whether the strategy, whether the strategy is not, and decides to eventually refer to the strategy in the parliamentary procedure. The strategy comes into the parliamentary procedure, n comes to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the government of Mr. Oreshkovic falls. For the third time, the strategy comes to this distinguished House, comes to the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction while I was still on that board, and I don't know, I say thank God that the third time, third time, surely nothing will happen, the board was on Wednesday, on Thursday there was a meeting of the government at which the prime minister said that the 3 MOST ministers were resolved. The strategy is in the Parliament. I pray from a deep heart to the President of the Croatian Parliament and all that she may come before this distinguished House as soon as possible. Why? It is the basis that you can work out a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia. Of all 28 members, one goes out, but all 27 members have a spatial plan of their own. It's a spatial plan from which state facilities are seen, from which the country's direction is being developed. This law is the basis for this, so it would be very, very good for the strategy to come as soon as possible, that this respected House has the opportunity to discuss it because it is the basis for it to then be able to make decisions and work on a spatial plan in the law. I then told Minister Kuštević something that I would repeat to Minister Stromar but he is gone, I never will, but absolutely never, regardless of this House and regardless of my status as an opposition, say something bad from what comes from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning if I think it's good, so regardless, this law is operational, these changes and supplements will allow some things to go faster, I have these two dilemmas in relation to the explanation, but also in relation to the decision, but my God, you decided to do so, all together to go so. And that's when I told Minister Kuštević, once again. I don't think you're ambitious enough because he predicted a state spatial plan out there in 2021. As time goes by, I am afraid that this deadline will have to be extended, therefore indeed from this pay phone, the strategy as soon as possible, that it can be discussed and that indeed the ministry through the institutions, or the way it is planned, is doing the state spatial plan because it is the basis of everything, because a decent state has a state spatial plan, it also shows economic development, the development of infrastructure, and what we talked about throughout the morning, which we talked about through the Credit Subsidisation Act. It is the basis for both employment and economic development. Because in the state spatial plan, the state can put procedures into the strictest of interests for the state, because what has been shown to us in practice, and that's what everyone who's had an opportunity to do, let's say you have something in the county plan, so that the municipality and the city don't want to put it in the municipal and city plan, so they don't want to bring it. This is how the state says these are state facilities, so let's make it three, let's make it five, but there's going to be a possibility of operationality and adoption. In any case, we, as a club, will support this amendment and the addition of the law on spatial regulation, it is more operational, it is better, experts at the ministry have made it more operational for the local, for the regional self-government, so we will really support this change and the addition of the plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41622	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41623	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, well, I would only refer to one of your sentences where you are in the profession and where you are, I would say, if you were emotionally commenting on this law and I'm glad you'd support it. I'd like to get down to one of the low-level plans. We have urbanists working today, and here I agree with you that this policy is crucial at this local level where they make plans and you come to a coastal place where there's a new settlement, you go through it, you go through some place in the interior, it's all the same to you. You lose your identity, you sell only squares, you don't think about some cultural heritage of a place or an area where an urbanist works, and when you go to a public debate, so you warn yourself, just look at it, I have a task to put as many objects in as little space as possible, that we can market better, and what we build will remain hundreds of years, I hope there won't be any elemental disasters in the space and somehow determine that space further. I have a feeling that 200, 300, 500 years ago, the urbanists at the time, architects did better work than these today, unfortunately, here we like to be proud of our heritage, but I'm not sure that these solutions that are today made by the profession on the ground are exactly, that we can always be proud of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41624	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41625	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think we could discuss what, who and how it works all day. Indeed, there is a tradition of spatial planning but there is also a tradition of cultural heritage, there is a tradition of certain expressions, and then when you take some spatial plan then in it, I never agreed to reregulation, these colleagues who work with me for a long time know, because then when you reregulated, then there is always something left to you that you haven't regulated, but there is something that is extremely important. We brought in a document there in 2013 called ApoliticA, or it's architectural policies. At the time we were very proud of this document, it was even a desire to pass through the Croatian Parliament but because of certain legal problems it did not pass, and there is talk about it. And we're kind of on our way really wanting to make as many squares as possible, we forget it. I think there's some time, that now are those times where we've had these powerful squares. I also pulled myself out of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce this morning if we had made 25,000 apartments there in 2008, 2009 to make it 8,000 apartments in 2015. So it's kind of going its own time. I think we're going back to some kind of tradition. Certain expressions aren't all about everything. So you can't build or design and build a house at sea, you can't build in Slavonia, you can't build in the hilly area. I'm really going through a lot with Croatia, which on the sea side, which land and see little shifts. The shifts are small, but the market does everything to you. At one point when we talk about tourism, sometimes when tourism was developing, rooms were sold and no one asked at all had air conditioning, no air conditioning. Then you could rent apartments. Now people choose. They choose what it looks like, what it looks like out there, whether it has this or that, and in fact, the market makes you do what you should do, and it's a good house.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41626	Thank you. We're moving on to another debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41627	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. As has already been said for the third time in the House we are discussing this law, twice in the first reading and for the first time in the second, so we have had time to make all those remarks that we are assessing that could improve the text of the law itself. The law is amended as a priority because of the two directives, i.e. the most important directive, which is the European Parliament and the Council's 2014 Directive which prescribes national governments and parliaments to bring in appropriate spatial and planning documents to define, regulate the conduct, planning and activities in sea belts that extend beyond the territorial sea, to the border or economic belt or to the ZERP, including a clear and epicontinental belt. As for the other amendments to which the ministry, in which the ministry or government has begun when it has already decided to comply with the laws with this directive, I support one thing, and with the other, I have already expressed my disagreement on two occasions. But they're not that kind of nature, of course we won't support the law. We will uphold the law and it is good that it is brought, but I will repeat what I have told you in the three debates so far. As for editing the concepts primarily when I'm talking about building gross surfaces, I agree, it's a good thing that it's settled so I think what the expert sides are doing is well done and better that we've done it that way. On the other hand, when I'm still talking about a change that I didn't agree with then and now I don't agree, that it's that the concession of the geothermal water fields and the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is not implemented on the basis of a local permit, but rather by the ministry that is in charge, but by the ministry that manages these premises in its detour, and by the Ministry of Economy. It didn't sit me down, but the ministry decided to explain to me that in the second phase when it started to set up a plant that would draw any water, either the hydrocarbons would come back to the ministry for a locational license. That's part of the solution for me, but I'll take it. I'm not professional enough to be able to insist on what I'm saying to the end. But I believe that everything that happens in space, which is recorded in the spatial plan, everything must be under the hat of this ministry and beyond, and especially cannot be done by one who is interested in that economic sense, and less in preserving space. But here's what I'm saying, I'm staying on it, and that's the solution that I'm going to accept. But here I am again I should point it out. And the other thing that I point out again is the fact that we need to comply with the European directive, and that there is no we should do it ourselves because it is good, because it claims that the state that declared its economic belt or its derivative, which is a protected eco-fishing belt as done by the Republic of Croatia, needs to bring a document of spatial arrangement that we define how and how we act, we plan everything that we can plan in ZERP. And clearly, the international convention must prescribe what can be planned in the economic belt, as well as in the ZERP. We are also obliged by this proposal to amend and supplement the law to adopt a spatial plan of the epicontinental band so that we can make good access to the extraction and use of the Adriatic underworld in that part under the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia. But what I think the government missed out on me is that it was better that we had come up with a single spatial plan for the entire Adriatic area. I understand the fact that we will make it easier to come up with a plan, a state spatial plan for the continental part and for the territorial sea, because we are not bordering in the sea with countries where we have disputed borders. When we talk about ZERP, we will probably have to work a little bit harder to define the scope of the plan, so this may be one reason why we are working on the sea several spatial plans, but we will have to work on more strategic environmental impact assessments, carry out much more discussions and that deadline that we have set for us to bring the state plan, spatial development on 31 December 2019, and these two other spatial plans, the spatial plan of the ZERP and the spatial plan of the epicontinental band 31 March 2021 is acceptable, but it could have been together and had a single spatial plan, as the county has a unique spatial spatial plan. As the city has a unique spatial plan, as the municipality has a unique spatial plan for me it was purposeful. It won't change anything, we won't lose anything, but that I'm a planner, that I'm a user of this plan, that I'm obliged to implement it in one place, to manage all of the Republic's space, both those continental and territorial seas, where the state has sovereignty, and so the ZERP where we have contemporary rights, in my opinion it was logical, but I was immediately at first reading, at first reading, what during Oreshkovic's government's time pointed out, that however the government decided, it was acceptable for me, I would have done so, however, probably nothing changed, but in the practice of spatial planning of the Republic, and when we had, and when we had a strategy, we bring a unique, for the whole space. When we brought in 1997 or 99's Spatial Planning Programme, a unique Spatial Arrangement Programme for the whole of Croatia was adopted, and then we were editing the epicontinental belt, because if we hadn't, we wouldn't have been able to draw gas in the North Sea. Therefore, even when we are not obliged to comply with the directive, we have brought a single document of spatial order, it was called a spatial plan, a spatial plan of arrangements or a state plan for the development of new documents. All this together doesn't change anything, and I commend the government, that the government came with a bill like this to pass it, and that as soon as we get closer to drawing up these documents, so we don't run out of deadlines that we'll decide on Friday when we vote on this document to adopt this law. And I agree with my colleague Mrak-Taritash, that we have debated and developed spatial planning strategies, since we have grown so much on the working bodies that we finally come here and to the plenary session and bring this important document of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, because it is the basis for then and for the production of all these other national, or state-level documents. And when I mention this significant new number of spatial plans that regulate the sea and the marine environment, then I would, on the same principle, approach the development of spatial plans of regional special features, i.e. national parks, and there would be a unique spatial plan for me. But here's the approach is what it is, let's, we'll support it at the HDZ Club because it's good to bring in more plans than not to have any. It should therefore be adopted and brought into line with this law as soon as possible, i.e. the 2014 Directive. All together in the end, we at the HDZ Club will accept this bill, the final draft of the law, clearly and clearly vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41628	Thank you. One is a replica, an esteemed colleague of Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41629	I didn't mean to mention the hydrocarbon field and geothermal water in my presentation, I was hoping you'd say that and you said that. We in some things, we've agreed so far in some we haven't, I think there were more things we've agreed on than no, but in this I completely agree with you. I am absolutely the view that a local permit should be issued for that field, that it should not be given to someone else and that what is not good in law. I expected that you would still succeed between the first and second readings, that you would be able to convince that it was more important to be located, but you failed, I must admit, I didn't even work too hard, I believed in you, but that's not good. All operations in space should be defined through a spatial plan and later through a locational permit and it is good that the space manager issues a location permit, not that it is left to someone who uses it. So, to be clear, it's not a body that's responsible for spatial planning that won't issue that location permit, it's going to be issued on the basis of a special regulation that's related to mining and it's going to be issued by someone who's using this space, and I'm sure at first we're going to have different doubts, there's also existing locations where the gas and all kinds of things are going and we know what's already been a problem, this problem will continue and it's good to say it here, I hope there's going to be some kind of change of law where we're going to bring it back to the old solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41630	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41631	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I agree that in some things we didn't agree on, and I also believed that when you were a minister that you would be more firm in defending your views, when you were, I'll tell you that I have the right, when, besides your opinion, a tender for the expansion and exploration of hydrocarbons is being opened, and I was hoping that you'd be stronger then, so you're just as I've now yielded. I've got one thing. And this is that there is no concession in Croatia that involves construction, that since the first moment, the whole process is not under local permission. It is for me the beginning of any thought of concessioning and building in the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to, even less, less concerned with geothermal waters, but the concessioning of hydrocarbon research must be under the watchful supervision of this ministry. This one, the ministry, according to which the Ministry of Economy is conducting a public tender procedure, calls on it to have its own particular interest, which always has little to do with the interest of the planner and the one who protects the space. And that's why I said that I would be if I had asked and insisted that the location permit be the moment when at all anyone and the government and the economy ministry were beginning to think about research, especially exploitation and research. That's what I've been saying and I think that's what I should have insisted on, but I've already said as the government decides the Resort Ministry is more professional than what I'm saying, there's a lot more people who decide. I said that on behalf of the club we would accept it, but I'm saying it's always under the supervision of the Minister of Spatial Planning. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41632	Thank you. We end up with a password, who admits half of it is forgiven. Here's the secretary of state, final address.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41633	... Here is everything we heard today at this item on the agenda of the amendment of the Law on Spatial Planning was also said in the previous discussion at the second reading and on the right reading. [[Specially enabled.]] Our professional services have explained this well and I will not repeat myself and it is not necessary, but all good remarks are safe and opinions, we will include suggestions in the the thesis that we are currently doing at this time amending the new Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning or there will be changes to the law or there will be a new law at this point I cannot say, but we are already working on it. And in the end, I will just say that we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament No. 85/1 because it's a nomotechnical correction. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41634	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we end today, today's session. As I have already announced, we will continue on Tuesday 27 June at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of EU Regulation No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Thank you and good-bye. Session adjourned at 17.10 p.m. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning, second reading, P.Z. No. 85. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who is in agreement, i.e. we vote on a debate on the amendments to the government. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, we have decided to conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I now ask the proposing representative to further explain the amendments. It is a respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of Dunja Magas. Here you go. Amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41636	Amendment one. Article 9 is amended as follows: ‘In Article 37, the words ‘public bodies which are spatial and other data are obliged to make available through the information system and the manner in which they are required’ shall be replaced by the words ‘public authorities and professional spatial plans which are spatial and other data must be made available through the information system and in the manner in which they are due’, with an explanation. It's a nomotechnical term that's being developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41637	Okay. I'm opening a debate on the first amendment to the government. If there is no debate, I will conclude the debate and put the first amendment of the government to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find that with 109 votes, we, therefore, unanimously accept the first amendment of the government and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Now it's the second amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41638	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in C behind the words of the settlement are added words: "and in space outside the building area where it is intended to work a golf course and sports recreation playground on the open air." Explanation. The provisions of Article 48 shall be amended as follows: C with a construction limit in a belt of at least 100 metres from the coastal line, for space outside the construction area where it intends to build a golf course and sports recreation playground in the open air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41639	I'm opening a debate on the second amendment to the government. I am concluding the debate and voting on the second amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that with 108 votes for and 1 vote abstentioned and this amendment has been accepted, and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Now please Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41640	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the And which reads: “In Article 105, paragraph 2 behind the word graphic part of the plan, the words and the reasoning are added.” Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). The final proposal of the Law, which amends the provision of Article 54(1) of the Law on the Spatial Regulation, which provides for the content of spatial plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41641	I'm opening a debate on the three amendments to the government. I am closing the debate and voting on the 3 amendments of the government. Please let us vote. I find that we unanimously, 105 votes in favour, accept the 3 amendments to the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Now it's amendment number four.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41642	Thank you. In Article 28(1), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘Articles 5 and 6 shall be added as follows: paragraph 5. For the purpose of issuing the consent referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Ministry may request the opinion of the public authorities and other persons referred to in Article 101 of this Act. Article 6 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the public authorities do not deliver their opinion within the prescribed time limit, the opinion shall be deemed to be given and there shall be no objection." In order to ensure better implementation and professional justification of the spatial plan as a sublegal act, this amendment strengthens the possibility of verification, consistency of spatial plans with specific conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41643	I'm opening a debate on the 4th amendment of the government. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the 4th Amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that we unanimously, 106 votes in favour, accepted the 4 amendments to the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Please amend number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41644	Thank you. In Article 33(1), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The following paragraph 4 is added: Exceptionally from paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article, it shall be possible to build an external elevator on an existing building, regardless of the provisions of the spatial plan.’. This amendment allows for the addition of an external elevator to an existing building in cases where the provisions of the spatial plan are not planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41645	I'm opening a debate about the amendment as well. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the 5 amendments to the government. Please, let's vote. I find that we unanimously, 108 votes to accept the 5 amendments and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. There are six amendments to the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41646	Thank you. Article 50 A, which reads as follows: ‘In Article 176, in the opening sentence of the words of the building, a point is placed and the words are added to the investor of the building’. The proposed provision clarifies the provision of Article 176. The law on spatial planning and is equally in line with the Law on Construction and the Law on Property and other real rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-21-0.u41647	I'm opening a debate on the 6th amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the 6th Amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that we unanimously, 109 votes in favour, accept 6 amendments to the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendment was also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, during the debate, by the proposer's representative, to the amendment of the Committee, which is an integral part of the final draft of the Law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 117 votes in favour, we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, together with the amendments adopted.
