ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38814	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break to discuss the elemental accident that took place last week in Krapina-Zagorian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38815	Yes, thank you. There's a friend of yours, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38816	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the club of independent MPs, the future club of Glass and HSU, I demand a 10-minute break to refer to yesterday's statements by Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38817	How did you say on behalf of the future club? That's one...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38818	I said on behalf of the current independent, or future Voice and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38819	All right, all right, all right. Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38820	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Most, I'd like to request a recess regarding the announcement of the power collection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38821	You got it. A fellow Milosevic, and a colleague named Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38822	Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDSS Club to discuss Nikola Tesla's national day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38823	You got it. I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38824	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club for the same reasons as my colleague Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38825	Like a colleague of Sladolev's, okay. And a colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38826	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I request a break on the proposal, i.e. an increase in electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38827	Okay. Six have been reported. Thank you. We'll continue at 9.46. Thank you. ... We have to stick to the line. [[You can't hear it.]] It's 9:00.36. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:40 A.M.]] We're going back to work. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and esteemed colleague Marko Vesligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38829	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, MPs. I'd like to talk to you about the elemental accident of the fight that hit large parts of Krapina-Zagorian County in the fifth, 7.7. So, the huge storm that was accompanied by a strong fight has caused up to 100% damage to agricultural crops, vineyards, orchards, gardens, vegetables, and the damage said will certainly be measured in millions of kunas. The areas of towns, partitions and Krapina were affected, the municipality of Petrovsko, and parts of the municipalities of Radoboj, Rightnić, Đurmanec. The question arises, i.e. The citizens are asking for a reason, can I at least get some sort of compensation for the damage they've suffered? Because it is, after all, a year's work on agricultural crops that has now gone into the wind in a few minutes. As the head of a local unit whose area has been severely affected by these storms, but also as a member of the State Commission for Fundamental Accidents, I would like to express on behalf of all citizens who have suffered crops and agricultural areas, dissatisfaction with the way and amounts in which they are compensated, i.e. do not compensate for the damage caused by natural disasters. I would like to remind myself that in the State budget for 2017, only 20 million kuna was secured for those purposes, and for example, only last year's damage to the cold in the Krapina-Zagorje County area was estimated at only €52 million and only €205,000 were compensation for fruit trees, while for other agricultural cultures, it was not even kuna. And this year, the area of Krapina-Zagorje County was affected by the elemental cold disaster, and now it's actually a fight on some parts, as I said at the outset completely destroyed the plantations. Many of the issues are raised, as is the case in Croatia, after some things happen, citizens rightfully ask questions about the efficiency of the anti-urban defence, which Europe has very much rejected, because of the behaviour of the professional public, not to contribute to the protection of the fight, and we are, in fact, separating significant funds for this system used in 12 counties and in the city of Zagreb, of course, people who are dealing with it, say that these are insufficient means which we separate and, in my opinion, are we going to keep it and improve it according to what experts say, or are we going to focus on something else, which is co-financing insurance policies, which we know are also more expensive every year, or are we going to give it to increase payments, for payments from direct damages that have taken place? This is a question of course, which should be answered by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a working group established by the Ministry of Agriculture for the Defense of Fights, because if we do not protect in such cases, people who deal with agriculture, what little more, then we are sick of all EU funds and we are sick of marketing campaigns carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. The system, to conclude, is not working, damages are being compensated, we record everything well, citizens will now come back to the Commission for Fundamental Accidents in the cities, municipalities, report it, and I witnessed it as a leader and last year when it was cold. We'll send it all to the county, to the state, and then we'll get those miserable amounts for the damages I've mentioned before. So, every year the damage is getting bigger and bigger, and the fees we get are getting less and less. So I ask the government to arrange this system so that we can at least give people something to expect, not to spend their time on applications from which they will have neither swear compensation nor help because of the elemental disasters that have hit them. Given the amount of weather and damage suffered in the Krapina-Zagorje County area, I request that the Government of the Republic of Croatia show responsibility and find a way to help the agricultural producers who have destroyed the crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38830	Second debate, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives and HSU and future club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38831	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I've been really surprised since the popular shows became a payphone that the policy of a particular ministry was inauguration as it was yesterday a television show that talked about policies in the health system. And despite the fact that I have repeatedly warned the minister that every time he mentions the possibility of increasing the price of supplementary health insurance, he actually favors private insurance houses because then they perform aggressively about kidnapping at a lower price than the additional health insurance system. It's about reading the bargain. He did, however, not as the first option but as the third option said he advocated the purchase of the extra health insurance price. So he systematically wants to break up an institute that rests on the solidarity of citizens that for the same price both the youngest and the oldest and those rich and those poor can get coverage of the cost of participation of the review, participation of hospital stay, orthopaedic aids, participations for recipes. So he simply makes such announcements. I note, the return of 2 billion and 300 million kunas to costing DZO funds is 85% in the hospital system. Returning funds from private insurance companies to the healthcare system is 55%, of course they work for profit. So I ask you, which is the public interest of the minister to work for private insurance houses or to work for a public non-profit insurance company that carries in the system at least 100 million kunas of fresh money to citizens who regularly suspend or pay the D.O.P. every month. And I'm glad that here are the people from the audit, the D.O.A. is protected has a special account and can't be used to resuscitate hospital debts. It can't be used to resuscitate hospital debts. I don't know or let him change counsel or ask questions or let him talk to people, but I ask the minister not to go with such careless statements that are actually harmful. So let him do what Mr. Darko Milinović did in 2008 when all the health bills were paid last year, it was the last year when all the bills were paid and Mr. Schuker was on the other side, they were probably at war, and when he proposed something in the healthcare system, DAdo Milinović then gained courage, he wrote it, he ran all over Croatia, he had public debates, he suffered criticism and something fell out of the system. We're not happy with some parts, but it doesn't matter. The system was transparently presented. Here, on one popular show, we suggest changes in the system. Even if they're the best, it's not the way to propose a whole system that's so important. It's said in a way that hospitals don't pay for wholesale drugs, okay, and it's said that citizens have to pay. Citizens pay for everything. We want to be fair, we want to say that citizens who are currently paying their medicine should be 50% lower, because they paid right away, and 50% higher pay the hospital system because they pay 365 days later, if we're gonna be just. No matter what you do, hit on the back of the citizens, especially those old, poor and powerless, so they're always unforgiving victims. We are ready for a public debate, but I ask the Minister to put things on paper, to present it at a press conference in his ministry, there is a place to discuss documents that define the future of health care. And let the brother write laws that he wants to change. Of course it's not all negative that he's saying, but this is right in the eye, and this is what I've been looking back at is harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38832	We're moving on to a third hearing. The club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists and distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38833	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For today's announced statement, we look through the media, of course, that this is an incentive for all of us to address ourselves in this way, so we've announced the crowd we've been hearing about since last year, there's certainly been a lot of debate over the past government, the government of the HDZ and the Most, now and through this government. There was also a debate in the government where I was the minister, of course the data was slowly coming out. As a result, they slowly went out because everything was lawfully prepared, the rules changed, arranged for it to be not at all as problematic as such. But the problem is that there is a commitment, a commitment that we will have in this year 1.1 billion, a year 1.5 billion kuna, 2019. 1.6 billion kuna. We have remedied a little damage with the VAT reduction, so they can only give an example when discussing the formation of this last government of Mosta and HDZ that it was precisely one of the key points that we have stated that there will inevitably be an increase in electricity both for the economy and for the households because contracts that correspond to a certain number of renewable energy producers are signed, and are primarily suitable for those who own wind power plants. If I repeat one more time, the key person, the key culprit, is Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, who is now elegant in this arrangement, has escaped from being very visible but is likely to be his colleague, our colleague Curaj will surely go to his defense. We can talk about a personal impression or something, but the data is inevitable. If the contracts were not signed, we wouldn't be in a situation that needs to be defended today. And then here she is, Minister Maric is not here right now and he found out, in fact he was the first to know, so it was profoundly hidden that there were such obligations. By lowering the VAT, we solved the temporary price of electricity for households, not for the economy. For the VAT economy, it is a transitional item. In this time since the formation of the Government in October 2016 no measures have been implemented to help compensate the economy. So no concession has been made to economies that could be said to be inevitably due to an increase in electricity, resulting in poor contracts that were signed long ago. We have in that and that amount, we will release you from the other days that you are obliged to give. That's what we haven't seen. Of course, the proposal was different measures, those measures were also carried out by the Dobrovic ministry, I believe now Minister Coric. But I am only interested now that there is an increase in whether Minister Coric, who is now sitting down, will say who is guilty, whether the citizens are guilty, whether all politicians are guilty or guilty is the good one who is their coalition partner. Whether Mr. Vrdoljak, who led the ministry, was either responsible or not, or maybe a year or two or three, we'll see him again at some function that was agreed on, but in what way he would show up, and he'll say the time he ate because we see now, we're coming back slowly and Sanader, we're coming back and Peter Cobankovic, it looks like we're the only ones who don't have to go because otherwise he's gonna have to look for a way to move us because every time we go out, we're talking about the problem, about how it happened, about how some used the whole system. It is up to us now, we can always go back to these discussions but I wonder if with this statement, if that is so, because we see that this tension has been lifted slowly and hopefully here we will still work on some restructuring measures, say who is guilty and others will say that it will help both the economy and how it will explain to the citizens that this reduction of electricity was only temporary, that it will still be cheaper than it was in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38834	Thank you. 4th debate, distinguished counterpart Boris Milosevic, on behalf of SDSS's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38835	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In 2014, the Croatian Parliament decided to declare the day of July 10th, the National Day of Nikola Tesla, the day of science, technology, innovation. Today we have an important day, today the president proposes candidates for the President of the Supreme Court, we have today another attempt to establish the City of Zagreb Assembly, we have important points on the agenda for discussion, we have breaks due to electricity collection. I'd like to say something about Nikola Tesla, who was born on July 10, 1856. I would like to say something about our relationship with him, his work and his life, his legacy but also about the availability of electricity in the Republic of Croatia. Tesla started elementary school in Smiljan, finished it in Gospić, then enrolled in a high school in Karlovac. After he graduated from high school, his father wanted to be an Orthodox priest, he resisted it, he wrote technical studies in Graz, so he left Croatia and after that he did not finish his studies but went to America. When I mentioned the establishment of the City Assembly, I would say that Nikola Tesla spoke in 1892 before the then mayor of Zagreb Milan Amrus and then representatives of the city assembly. The paper also said that he said: “For the city of Zagreb, as the capital of this country, it is not only possible but it is a duty to introduce this new lighting because it is not only a benefit for the city itself, but for the whole country. And I'd say it would be a shame for Zagreb if it wasn't for that ringleader. There will be some difficulty, but every beginning is difficult." That's what Nikola Tesla said at the time, but unfortunately, the city's eyes disobeyed him. Did we in Croatia properly value Nikola Tesla, his life and his work? I leave it to each and every one of you to judge, personally I don't think that we have to constantly point to who, who he was and what Nikola Tesla was doing. The facts suggest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia only began to properly evaluate Nikola Tesla and his promotion in 2004. In 2006, his home house was renovated, a memorial centre was built in his hometown, it was restored, i.e. a new memorial was placed. So the celebration of the 150th anniversary of Nikola Tesla's birth in 2006 actually returned Nikola Tesla to the big door. Today we also have a national day of Nikola Tesla, we have numerous streets, schools, associations, initiatives, awards, all called after Nikola Tesla. But we also have a bitter fact that one of the three monuments, which are the work of famous artist Fran Krsinić, who according to many of Nikola Tesla's best artistic depictions, is therefore one set up in Belgrade, one on Niagarene Falls, one was set up in Gospić, unfortunately in 1992 the one in Gospić was mined. And in 2006, so on the 100th anniversary of his birth, that monument was restored, however, the monument is still gathering dust somewhere, closed in the dark, therefore, gone. I won't appeal not to forget Nikola Tesla because it's impossible, but I appeal not to forget that monument. Let's put him where he belongs. What I'd like to say is, and I think it's important, and it's about Nikola Tesla, my colleagues were talking about power collection, and they're still going to talk about power collection, and I'd like to talk about places where there's no electricity. Suvaja, Vuki polje, Drenovac Osredački, Dabašinca, Glogovo, Brunvo, Deep Dol, Malovan, Gubačeva polje, Paršići, Grulovići, Kočević, Balji polje, Otitiæ, Koljane, Cikote, Jakovci, Bijelaci, Rogulje etc. etc. There's more. These are all settlements and villages where people live, and there's still no electricity. Based on its expressed interest in returning to the SDSS initiative, the then government adopted a programme of rehabilitation and reconstruction of the so-called low voltage network in 2006. Then it started to rebuild, stronger the restoration to restore people's electricity connection. The process is unfortunately not over until today. I hope that this government will solve this problem in its term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38836	Thank you. The fifth debate, distinguished colleague Stjepan Curaj, club of representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38837	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Ministers, Authorised Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Panenić practically called me. In fact, we had to react once again and here only once again what was available to me, so I wasn't here a year or two ago, and I don't know what my colleague Panenic was doing as a minister or what was going on for the last two years and the last five years, but I know what the facts are. So the invited tariff system for the production of electricity from renewable sources is from 2007 which then predicted 65 limes as a preferential price and the predicted power of 1200 megawatts. In 2012, when Minister Branko Vukelic was then in 2012 when Minister Radimir Cacic, the buy-in price as a priority was 71 lipa, therefore growing, and the planned force was according to the 1200 megawatt action plan. In order to come so much as mentioned in 2013, when the purchase price for the production of preferential electricity from wind power plants goes to a reference or market price without benefits, and is reduced to 400 megawatts by decision. So, from 1200 to 400. However, given that, according to the above criteria, certain producers have already gone into investment to avoid the lawsuits, they have been allowed to do so by 2013, and from 400 to 700. So, a total of nearly 500 megawatts were reduced, and 7 billion kuna. That's what Minister Vrdoljak did. It was then accused that, given the announced exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, it actually favours fossil fuels, destroys renewable energy sources, etc. That's what the fact is. Now here we call him a favor and the man has reduced the drastic price, abolished the privileged, and let's tell the government then that they have done something bad that they inherited and protected the citizens, practically reduced 7 billion kuna. For what was since 2007, you have never heard of anyone now mentioned in 2007, 2009, 2012, so these are the conditions that were made in accordance with EU directives. Who prescribe certain procedures. It is not true, therefore, that especially the previous government is responsible or do not give God such insinuations that they are favored by certain investors when everything has been done to eliminate it as much as possible. Of course, in cooperation with all the institutions, to protect the state from all possible lawsuits. So that's what you can see, available documents that are on the pages of the Croatian market energy operator. In that period, she also raised compensation from 0.5 lips to 3 and a half, no one sued, said look what they left me, see what we did. You mentioned here that no measures have been implemented since 2016, it is true that, obviously, in the last year and a half, two, nothing has been implemented. In February, Minister Dobrović announced this collection of electricity, and then they reset, and they issued a solution that I quote: "that according to the models we have made, the price of electricity for citizens will be lower than in 2016," your minister said, that now apparently someone else would be guilty. To me, it's just that I'm here to talk to you in an argument that we're not talking about data that aren't accurate, that's to say that we're giving insinuations that don't stand. If someone cut something from 21 to 14 billion kuna, then it can't be said they hit it. That would have been if he'd increased. So that's what I can say very briefly and clearly. So, in some political debates, I'm not going to participate any further, I don't think it makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38838	And last, sixth debate. Dear colleague Branko Bačić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38839	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have been discussing an increase in electricity prices here in Parliament for a long time, given the increased compensation for renewable energy sources. The fact is that the transition of the energy sector is being emissions to the energy sector without emissions, has its price. And that transition, that transition from the sector, the energy sector from emissions to the one without emissions, is in a certain way, and our commitment from the third energy package on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are signatories of the Paris Climate Agreement. And we're aware of that. We knew that when and when we enter the EU, we are aware of this because we have decided to finance renewable energy sources through a series of laws that this Parliament has decided to finance and that renewable energy sources are increasingly participating in direct consumption. As a result, there is a clear need for the sector to co-finance, encourage and subsidise, which requires a clear guarantee of sufficient resources. We have already talked about this on several occasions, and here in the Assembly, we have heard about the amounts for which electricity prices should be increased. That obligation was already a year and a half ago, so then we kind of changed it. We have not introduced and increased compensation for renewable energy sources. And here we are now, in view of the large liabilities that are made to renewable energy producers, there is a need to provide sufficient resources in the system. We've heard names here and former ministers and defences of former ministers as well. What it is is the government's obligation to implement this obligation and to charge the price to the Croatian citizens on the one hand, and on the other, the Croatian economy as little as possible. As we know, here is the Minister of Finance. In the tax reform we spent last year, VAT on the supply of electricity was reduced by 25% to 13%, which will contribute to the fact that, despite the necessary increase in compensation for renewable energy sources in the public, it is predicted and said that this increase would be from 3 to 7 and a half June, which means that at an annual level, electricity prices would increase around 170 kuna in the average household. However, if this occurs, the increase in the compensation for renewable energy sources will still be paid by Croatian citizens thanks to a reduction in VAT on the supply of electricity. What counterpart Panenic said as the VAT in the economy is a transitional item will result in a significant increase in the cost of the economy. But Minister Coric, as energy minister, announced that the model that would try to compensate through the HEP network is currently being re-financed in the economy as a result of a possible increase in energy prices. I remember that in this House five years ago, somewhere in May 2012, we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club then protested as opposition representatives the fact that the then government, so somewhere in April 2012, appeared to me to have increased the price of electricity by 25%. And this was a drastic blow to the standard of Croatian citizens and that this increase in electricity prices occurred without the consent of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, i.e. the then government drew it up and based on its time-consensual agreement with HER from 2010 which envisioned an increase in the price of only 5% or 6%. Finally, the government then increased about 25% in electricity prices. Therefore, when we talk about the guilt of a single minister, some governments need to look at the overall problem of the supply of electricity on the one hand, and on the other hand, the fact that we are obliged to provide greater amounts of energy from renewable energy sources, which is more expensive in itself. And that's why compensation needs to be made. Therefore, it seems to me that we should discuss the cold heads of this matter so that these polemics of ours don't. suffered by our citizens. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38840	I thank everyone who participated in this part of the session. Before we move on to the first point, I'd just like to let you know that all the points we've predicted for today have no conditions to discuss. So two are such points. One is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Use. And the second is the proposal for a law supplementing the Witness Protection Act. That's why I'm asking the presidents of the parent bodies to discuss them in a hurry. These are the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Health. I also ask that the other working bodies work on time and other points scheduled for discussion this week so that they can stick to the proposed schedule. Since we are not going to work on these two points today, we will discuss these two points instead do points 33, 34, and 35 of the agenda. These are the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Attorney's Board of Representatives, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council of the Council of Representatives and a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Judicial Council of the Office of Representatives. Those points will come at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38853	Here's a hand-lifted representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to warn the Croatian public of a tragic and radical situation that is happening in Zagreb, in the City Assembly where it is not working out here today to build another time, but to postpone. Here's what I'd like to ask for a brief break to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38855	Okay, we had six breaks, six clubs in the morning. Of course, I'll give you a break. No, no, no. I'm sticking strictly to the Rules of Procedure. So at 12.10 we'll continue. It's 12 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am using this opportunity, given that the topic is very current, and I think it also sets out the direction for which Croatian politics will take place in the coming years, it is about the City of Zagreb and it is about one tragic and radical side of Croatian politics, where it doesn't matter at all, what matters to the citizens at all, what the citizens want and need, but it is important to impose the topics that have been behind us for 70 years, and to impose topics that will ensure the continuity of a non-ideal customeral and tragic government in the City of Zagreb. We have two times today, not the success of the established assembly this morning and it has been postponed for 13 hours and there is expected to be pressure on Mr Lustigo to resign, in order to enter someone else who will be acceptable to have the most important topic in the City of Zagreb as a change in the name of one square. So it doesn't matter, in the City of Zagreb, what schools are, it doesn't matter what kindergartens are, it doesn't matter how many bridges we have, it doesn't matter how many people work, but it's important, one small, narrow, handful of people to harass the citizens of the City of Zagreb with the support they got in the elections, which is 7.8%, and since the mayor is obviously weak and can't do anything, he agrees with the blackmail that puts the name change in the square in focus. And what kind of message is this from HDZ, who is trying to run the state here, in one, I would say European, only in principle and seemingly European way, when at this one very important level in the City of Zagreb, it descends and lets four MPs of Hasanbegovic be blackmailed and thus I will tell you again, the great majority of the city of Zagreb throws out what should not be and that is harassment. The citizens of the city of Zagreb are not interested, primarily what they will call squares and streets, the built city of Zagreb and me that I was born there, squares and streets that I know, 20, 30, 40 years are interested in that way and I will call them whatever they call them now again Bandic, Hasanbegović and Mikulić. I will call them what I taught them as a child of the city of Zagreb. This is what I am interested in, and I am much more interested in, that tomorrow my child, when he comes to kindergarten or school, does not have to carry consumer paper with them and wipes and everything our children in the City of Zagreb have to do. As a parent and as a Zagreber, I want my City of Zagreb to provide its citizens. Not that Bandic would now use his maneuvers, by forcing a man of world format, who produced one of the most impressive films from 2nd century. The war on Schindrell's list, to force him to resign, to enter someone else who would then sign what needs to be signed. It is a shame for Zagreb, it is a shame for Croatia, it is a shame for Europe, you would not believe, but this will be discussed throughout the EU. Plenkovic may not be interested, he may want to go through Orban or Dude in Poland, but I don't want to do it in Croatia and Zagreb. I want Croatia and Zagreb to be what they are, based on the foundations of anti-fascists, not on the foundations of those who want to forge the history that happened before and which children should be taught what is good and what is evil. And on that side, I'm calling all over again, so don't make a case out of Zagreb. This is nakarad, funny, this may determine the policy that will be in the coming years. Someone might try to win at the level of Croatia at 6.7%, and then tomorrow they'll blackmail us all here to change the values on which Croatia rests, and it liked someone or not antifascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u38858	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44055	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and continue our work as announced by the point - Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and the Proposal for an Annual Report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2016 In accordance with established practice, I propose that we share this point with the point - Report on the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 The Carrier: The State Audit Office and then the Proposers speak 30 minutes, share between themselves the Minister of Finance and the Chief State Auditor, and the clubs would have the right to a 20-minute speech. Before we go to work, I see some of them checked in, I guess, for a break. And now we're crossing as we announced at the first point. This is a joint discussion of the 2016 proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and the 2016 Annual Report on the implementation of the fiscal rules. As I said in accordance with established practice, we are having a joint discussion with the 2016 report on the annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed acts are the first Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 110. The budget law, and in the case of a revision, is the applicant of the Act, State Audit Office, pursuant to the provision of Article 6. The State Audit Office Act. You've received the material in the boxes and dispatching the Parliament. The debate on both points was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. The Government also delivered an opinion on the State Audit report. And now I'd like to beg, so let's go with a united debate for 30 minutes. First is Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, followed by chief state auditor Ivan Klesic, so I ask the minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44057	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is therefore an annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, together with an addition, which is also a report on the application of fiscal rules for 2016. As you expect and as you well know, everything has been prepared in accordance with the Budget Law, so from a general and a special part through all reports as prescribed by the legislative regulation. I will seek in this introductory address in the shortest or most comprehensive lines to present only the report, and during the course of the debate on any questions and comments, there are my colleagues and I to answer. As usual, the practice, for presenting the State Budget Report for a year, moves mainly with the achievement of macroeconomic indicators. I will only briefly remind all those present here, that last year at 3 months, given the objective circumstances, because we had elections at the end of 2015, we represented the state budget for 2016. The economic growth assessment at the time, which was the basis for the assessment and work of the revenue side of the budget, as well as the entire budget, was an economic growth of 2% for the whole of 2016. This growth has been achieved much better, i.e. significantly above this expected or original planned growth, so economic growth in 2016, at 3%. Here I will only say one technical note, therefore, of the State Statistics Institute, within the framework of its regular data revision, so in accordance with the practice and methodology that it implements, therefore, the Eurostat methodologies and the national account system, for certain corrections and revisions, so that these figures that I am about to say are the last available figures published by the State Statistics Office for 2016. Of the particular components of economic growth in 2016, the biggest growth was achieved in the exports of goods and services, too, significant growth was given to personal consumption and investment, and as a sort of compensatory item, was imports of goods and services. What is particularly looking forward to is the indicators of individual indicators from the GDP production side, industrial production is growing by 5%, i.e. by 5%. The retail trade by 4%, then the night of tourists by 9%, we all know that 2016 has been a record year in tourism. It also looks forward to a significant growth of 2.8% of the construction work index, which is one good indicator after a few years, 7 years, a significant decline in this activity prior to the recession, before the financial economic crisis was also one of the main drivers. Last year we ended up with negative inflation, so, deflation of 1.1%. Economic indicators had, of course, positive labour market repercussions, employee growth and further reduction of unemployment. As regards the revenue side of the budget, therefore, the total revenues of the state budget in 2016 were reached at EUR 116.8 billion, which is 6.5% higher than the year before. As for tax revenues as of course the most important and those on which we put perhaps the greatest focus in the analysis itself, projections and so on in this discussion, in their achievement in 2016 was at 71.7 billion kuna, which is an annual increase of 5.4%. In particular, there is a need to highlight the profit tax, i.e. income from profit tax, which has been achieved in the amount of 7.2 billion kuna, which is actually 15% more compared to the year before, therefore, positive indicators in the economy have also reflected on better collection of income tax. On the other hand, income from pre-income, the part that goes through the state budget, has been achieved at 2.2 billion kuna, which is an annual growth of 7.9%. Also income from value added tax as the individual largest item on the income side, what we always particularly follow, they are made at an amount of 45.2 billion kuna, which is an increase of 3.8%, and of course the tourist season mentioned, and a significant growth in personal consumption are those indicators or those parameters that have had the greatest impact on the movement of income from value added tax. Of course, there are also revenues from the special taxes and excise duties that have been achieved in the amount of 14.8 billion kuna, which is a 6% increase at the annual level. The revenue from the contribution was generated in the amount of €22.2 billion, the result of which was of course the highest movement on market labour. The annual comparison with 2015 is not entirely possible, given the fact that at the end of 2015, one part of course, revenue from contributions, was made, therefore, from the second to the first pension column of 1.26 billion, but when the effect is excluded, there is an increase and progress in revenue from contributions. I repeat again, mainly due to improvements in the labour market. The revenue from the aid has been achieved in the amount of 7.8 billion kuna, which is a growth of as much as 57.2% but we all know that the largest share, 92% of total revenues, is actually coming from EU funds. I'll put it on the subject a little bit later. As far as expenditure is concerned, the expenditure of the state budget has been incurred in the amount of $120.2 billion. I'll just stop there for a little while, so I'll remind you that, as part of the 2016 budget presentation, we've presented the budget, and that's how I'm going to do this, therefore, by dividing total expenditures into 2 components. That one component we're funding from so-called. General sources, so that's the component that we can say, simplifies creating a deficit. So, from the general revenues that we finance different levels of expenditure, while on the other hand we look at our own and dedicated expenditures, i.e. expenditure financed by EU funds. They are, therefore, neutral in terms of deficits, the overall result of the budget, and thus we separate them in terms of the explanations themselves. It should also be mentioned, if you remember the 2016 budget itself, we said it was one of the strong messages with which we went in just presenting the budget, which is our intention and effort to freeze the cost side of the budget from these general sources. So those who create a deficit compared to the achievement of 2015, here I am now going to present the results and you will see for yourself or testify whether we have been successful. Compared to the execution of 2015, these 120.2 billion kuna total expenditures increased by 1.6 billion kuna. However, out of these 1.6 billion kunas, 2.5 billion even higher amounts are related to the increase in expenditures that are from financed sources which do not affect the level of the deficit of the state budget, so I repeat again from these own and dedicated and mainly eu aid, while those expenditures financed from general sources that generate deficits compared to the implementation of the 2015 budget are reduced by 830.5 million kuna. As regards individual categories and individual items of the expenditure side of the budget, we start with expenditure on employees. They were carried out at an amount of 25.8 billion kuna, which was in line with that last plan compared to the same period of the previous year, and the expenditures were higher by 793 million kuna. The largest part of this increase relates to two items which were not planned in the original draft budget, but given the circumstances which were valid, and also not bringing state budgets and taxpayers into the problem of potential lawsuits, loss of lawsuits, additional costs and the like, the Government decided to pay both the regress and Christmas payments in 2016, so two items that were not originally planned. So they totaled about 550 million kuna in 2016, I'm talking about both categories and Christmas and regression. There have also been other reasons, such as payment of salaries to government officials whose term of office has ceased, or because of the termination of their duties in accordance with the existing legal provisions of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. As far as material expenditures are concerned, they were made at an amount of 11.1 billion kuna, which is an increase of about 95 million kuna compared to the previous year. However, it should also be noted when we re-separate to general sources and sources from dedicated, own and eu assistance, we also see significant differences. So from sources affecting the deficit in the state budget, material expenditures were made in the amount of €6.2 billion, which is 467 million less than the previous year. The largest if we can say savings or reductions are achieved at the cost of services of Kuna 117 million and the reduction of expenditure on materials and energy amounting to 154 million kuna. From sources that do not affect the lack of the state budget, so those financed from their own dedicated and eu-help is a total of 5 billion kuna, which is a 562 million kuna increase, we mainly have the part concerning our distribution and that part of the material expenditure financed by EU funds for some 150 million kuna. As for the financial expenditures most of which relate to interest rates, they were made in the amount of 10.6 billion kuna. At that point we at the Ministry of Finance, and I think we should all be particularly happy and happy, and that is the fact that we have managed to cut interest costs for some 317 million kunas. I am only talking about the expenditure on interest from the perspective of the state budget, when all other institutions and units entering the general state were added, the total reduction in interest expenditure compared to 2015 was 763 million kuna, so something over 0.2% of GDP was managed in 2016 to make a positive correction so to reduce our interest expenditures. However, I repeat this once again expenditure on interest rates at the general state level remains at a very high level of around 11 billion kuna, and therefore you need not be surprised at the direction of the government of the Republic of Croatia's government which is aimed at improving the rate of interest and, in general, at improving the image and dissipating pressure on this state budget item. As regards the expenditure on subsidies, they were made in the amount of 6.1 billion kuna, which is in line with the planned resources. I repeat, you know very well that most of these subsidies refer to subsidies in agriculture of $3.7 billion, and yet it should be mentioned that the largest part of this category is certainly also a positive shift in the following years, and in the following years we expect further positive shifts, and this is an increasing share of European aid, whether it is direct payments, whether it is programmes and rural development measures. Subsidies in transport, transport infrastructure and communication have been paid, as well as subsidies in the economy and entrepreneurship. One of the last things we can say is the items relating to the restructuring of the shipyard paid in 2016, worth 668 million kuna. Aids given abroad and within the general budget were made in the amount of €13.4 billion, most of which relate to our payment or contribution by the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget, €2.6 billion to the transfer of funds to HZZO, €2.3 billion to finance decentralised functions and to help local and regional self-government and €1.9 billion to compensation in the price of Croatian Roads fuel. Then we come up with an item of compensation for citizens and households that was carried out in the amount of 45 billion kuna. Of course, the largest item, individually and generally on the dispensary side of the budget, is pension, pension and pension incomes made in the amount of HRK 36.8 billion. If you also remember the draft budget for 2016, when we presented it in March last year, then we also mentioned in that already mentioned freezing of expenditure foreign budgets from general sources, there is only one item on which we did not ask for any savings or reductions, and that was exactly the item for pensions. And then we made it very clear, despite the unfavourable, that we must say the ratios in terms of the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners, but, of course, respecting the fact that the average pension is unfortunately still at the level or even below 40% of the average net salary level, we certainly do not want to seek any savings in this item but to continue to apply as already in the existing positive regulations there are indexations of pensions. So on the one hand, we had a pension adjustment under the general regulation of January 1st for 0.46 and from July 1st for 0.35. We know very well that these adjustments are going with a 50% adjustment to wage growth. On the other hand, there is growth, i.e. movement or price correction, and I repeat again in 2016 sure that this deflation of 1,1% had an impact on why this indexation was not something more. We also had in our pension expenditures, with the inflow of new pensioners and 175 million kunas, the payment of one-off monetary income to pensioners realised in compulsory pension insurance. As regards the other items of compensation for citizens and households, therefore social care benefits were made in the amount of 2.3 billion kuna, unemployment benefits are 1.6 billion kuna, child benefits 1.5 billion kuna, and additional maternity leave and equipment for the newborn child, 1.1 billion kuna. As regards other expenditures, they were made in the amount of 5.1 billion kuna, the largest part concerns capital aid to Croatian highways of 1.9 and Croatian railways and infrastructures and ongoing donations mainly for higher education programmes, so scholarships, accommodation and nutrition students, raising student standards and programmes of special, higher education, scientific and technical cooperation, support for religious communities, support for the development of the port system and of course sport development programmes. You remember all very well one and on the sports plan of an extremely successful year, it was the year of our Olympics and Paralympics and we remember very well all the results they achieved on the same. Costs for the acquisition of non-financial assets are made in the amount of HRK 3.1 billion of which are slightly less than €1 billion, and this is also one good news financed by European funds, in particular by these expenditures concerning construction of construction facilities, procurement, facilities and equipment and transport in air and maritime transport, and of course in the Schengen programme which we managed to finance from EU funds. When we return to the total picture again, this 120.2 billion kuna expenditure of the state budget, according to sources 102.5 million kuna, is financed from these so-called so-called so-called budget expenditures. General sources are mostly tax revenues, but we add the contributions there. As regards the programme or expenditure financed from revenue for special purposes, they were made in the amount of €8.9 billion and 7.5 billion in expenditure was financed from the aid source. Of which the largest part is of course 7.1. billion kuna from European funds or EU funds, the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund 1.5 billion kuna, the European Regional Development Fund 1.3 billion kuna, the Cohesion Fund 1.2, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the European Social Fund 640 million and the Schengen programme 536 million kuna. In addition to the state budget, allow only a few sentences about the execution of extra budget users. In 2016, they made total revenues of 31.7 billion kuna and their expenditures amounted to 31.8 billion. A mild deficit has been achieved, these 6 extra budget users we present naturally under the Law on Budgets in the Croatian Parliament of 87.4 million kuna. It should be noted that the Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, CERPs and HZZO have achieved significant surpluses and the main reason why the total result of all 6 extra budget funds on the one hand lies in the fact that the state agency for the resolution of banks and insurance of savings roles DAB last year achieved a deficit of 80 million kuna. But I will immediately point out that one quality of the European Commission has not been made commendable and positively assessed programme for the resolution of small and medium-sized banks, i.e. in general, to ensure that this negative result of the DAB is even greater. And I'll remind everyone together that we had the effect of course the Adriatic Bank in 2016. However, above DAB, the main reason for the negative result of the extra budget user is, unfortunately, beyond expectations, the extravagant result of our Environmental Protection Fund and the energy efficiency that ended last year with a deficit of 614 million kuna. I'll just remind you that the execution of 2015 was still in a mild surplus. So when we sum up everything together, the state budget, you heard it yourself, so the total cost level of 116,800 20.2 billion was expenditure, the incomes of pardon 116.8, the total result is 3.4 billion kuna, the deficit of the state budget, which is 1% of GDP. When we add this, the result of the extra budget funds is already mentioned, and when we add this to the ESA 2010 methodology, the results and achievement of our units of local and regional self-government, so 576, and when we add all those elements that go into the scope of ESA 2010 is the conclusion in 2016, since we have been following our fiscal policy and budget according to ESA 2010, the methodology was the lowest deficit, the deficit was 2.8 billion kuna or 0.8% of GDP. I'm going to remind you that in the original budget plan in March last year, the deficit level or the planned deficit level was 2.6% of GDP, so the level of around 10 billion kuna, which was a significant reduction compared to the year before. After that, we had one technical rebalancing, if you remember in December of the month, and given the new organisational structure of the government of the Republic of Croatia, we passed through the technical rebalancing of course through the debate in the Croatian Parliament and then we adjusted the projection to 1.6% of GDP, and here you can see that the achievement is even better compared to not only the original but also that corrected projection for 2016. As we were announced in the draft budget itself, so this direction and these policies were guided. So on the one hand, I kept control of the expenditure side of the budget in spite of the challenges, and I mentioned some unplanned expenditures such as the already mentioned regression, Santa. Of course, we didn't even plan expenditures for early parliamentary elections which were also in 2016, we managed to save the expenditure side of the budget, achieve even better than expected, so reduce the total expenditure by 830 million kuna, compared to the achievement of 2015, and we used all the extra income as we said, effective revenue collection and there certainly goes the great merits of the tax administration and customs service that are in this sense, to reduce the deficit. This deficit, along with the activation of state property, made it possible for us to manage for the first time even nominally to reduce the level of our public debt. Last year's nominal public debt reduction amounted to 505 million kuna. We are in 2016, this is now the last data I will tell you, given the correction of the State Statistics Institute in terms of GDP, ended with 83.7% of GDP in public debt. And that's actually one direction that we started in 2016, so the correction of the public debt share in GDP for almost three percentage points, which is significant, which is, among other things, welcomed, commended, but also positively assessed by all those who need to positively assess it. So our domestic, professional and general public, our economy and international factors. Based on this implementation of the state budget and the general budget of the general government, you know well that after 2007, this year we had for the first time positive news from credit ratings agencies. So, the Croatian credit rating is based primarily on the implementation of the 2016 budget, but the macroeconomic indicators of the general direction that we have drawn in terms of economic policy as the Government of the Republic of Croatia have stabilised the prospects of the Croatian credit rating and the rating agency have made it very clear. If we continue with these results, with this direction, with this kind of entrepreneurship climate, but also with the results, surely we can expect further positive shifts in the years to come. Also, I will certainly single out what is a recent event, which is the fact that the Council of the EU, at the recommendation of the European Commission a few weeks ago, declared that Croatia is not in the system of excessive deficit procedures for its corrective mechanism, but we are going to this preventive mechanism, along with the vast majority of EU Member States. These must be very good indicators, both as a fruit and as a result of this achievement of the budget. Finally, only the final sentence, given that, with the implementation of the state budget and the budget of extra-financial users, it is necessary to refer to the annual report in the application of the fiscal rules, so in accordance with the 2014 Fiscal Responsibility Act, there is a provision that says, either fiscally or temporarily, the fiscal rule which states that "the annual rate of general budget expenditure growth should not be higher in the annual growth rates of the projected or estimated GDP at current prices". In 206 years, the annual expenditure growth rate for all those entering into the fiscal responsibility law was 2%, and the annual growth of the estimated nominal GDP at that time was 2.7%, so we can only make it very brief and clear that we have also met the fiscal rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44058	Thank you. Now I would also like to ask the chief state auditor, Mr. Klesic, for him to address us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44059	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you, the report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016, which was submitted by the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly within the legal deadline. The audit was planned and carried out with the aim of providing reasonable assurance that the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 was drawn up in accordance with accounting rules and that the provisions of the laws and other rules governing budgetary rules have been applied consistently. For the purposes of expressing an audit opinion, the execution of the tasks and recommendations made in audits carried out earlier years has been verified. The accounting of the state budget is planned to report, generate revenue, carry out expenditure, borrow and issue guarantees, and to grant funds from the budget stock. For the annual report on the implementation of the state budget, the Republic of Croatia has developed a conditional opinion on what these facts have affected, among other things, which I am now going to state. Although a significant part of the tasks and recommendations made in the previous audits have been carried out, certain irregularities are still repeated. In most cases, it concerns the adoption of the prescribed implementing rules. The criteria for calculating the amount of funds to be allocated from the state budget to the HZZ, for certain categories of insurance undertakings under the Obligation Health Insurance Act, have not been established. On 31 December 2016, there were 281, 6 million kunas received from the Regos provisional account and the obligation to repay those funds was not recorded in the main book of the State budget. In addition, part of the budget stock was used for expenditures that could be foreseen and could be planned which was not in line with the provisions of the Budget Act. Some of the revenues of the budgetary users, classified as assigned revenue, do not meet the prescribed criteria for classification in that source of funding because the regulations have not established the purpose of their use. In addition, attention has been paid to the importance of addressing the problem of the health system in order to stop the performance of negative results in the business of healthcare entities and to ensure the stability of the operations of health institutions and HZZs, and to mitigate the risk of possible consequences on future expenditures of the state budget. For all irregularities identified, and failures, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations whose implementation would contribute to increasing transparency in the use of budgetary resources and compliance with legal and other regulations. In addition, the State Audit Office also made recommendations for the regulation of the regulatory framework governing budgetary accounting to further improve the quality of financial reporting in the State budget system. Part of the State Audit Recommendations in previous audits, last years has been implemented, and the annual report for 2016 is more transparent and complete. This is the case, and this is for each commendation of expenditure for the first time according to sources of funding, and it also contains data on the outstanding liabilities of the users. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44060	Thank you. Nine is a replica. Six for the minister and three for the chief auditor, so we move with replicas for Minister Maric. He's the first respected colleague of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44061	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the report said, did not mention lower revenues from concessions. Can you state the reasons why there are fewer concessions, because we know what the problem is and what the resources and potential that the revenues are on concessions, and we also know the problems that occur around the concessions from the beaches, from Jane, from the agricultural land. Just in the case of Agrokor, it means you can explain the first question. The second question, three billion is 3.2 billion for agriculture you said were subsidies. The amounts of subsidies were 3.2 billion in agriculture you indicated subsidies. We see that agriculture is getting worse for us. We hope that these effects will be better in the future and work on it. But the fact is they're getting worse. How much of it means to Agrokor's means to agricultural companies that are related to Agrokor. You can tell the amount if it's been controlled, because the fact that it's been subsidized by a company where for 10 years it hasn't been a deep-decree-Tax. It's also familiar to you, tax control, it must also be known to you because the fact that such money is given to someone, and it's not controlled that agriculture is there. So two very important things. But one more thing. At the fees some of us learned, on the bank's fees and fees from the citizens of the land of 4 and a half billion kuna. And that's one of the models where we could increase in the future, so our income side, not from interest, but only from fees and commissions. I hope in the future you find a model that doesn't go to all the banks in your pocket, i.e. foreign banks that draw money from our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44062	The reply to the replica of Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44063	Thank you very much. As regards the concession last year, the majority of the non-financial assets are related to concessions were made in the amount of a billion and 446 million kuna, which is approximately at year level before a slight reduction, as we stated mainly in the budget's reasoning from the perspective, thus reducing the payment of one-off concession revenues, from the 4G concession during 2015. So, as far as concessions are concerned, I think we can, of course, discuss how much space there is in that sense. We recently had the Law on concessions in the second reading in the Croatian Parliament caused a lot of storms here and here in the Assembly, but also generally in the general public after 15 months of practically being in public space, after you were all together and here you personally raised your hand in the first reading, given that there was nothing disputed at that time because it was a roof law that defined the system of concessions which would then naturally get closer in certain specific areas to regulate certain provisions of certain specific laws. So surely in this field, we can discuss and discuss the extent of this area, whether, of course, in the area of concessions, we have a perspective of the revenue side of the budget, but on the other hand, of course, we have that problem regarding the very incentive of economic activity. As far as the subsidies for agriculture are concerned, I said very clearly, so here in the report itself and the budget itself you can see all the items are numbered. But of course we're not going to that item that every single company, company or agricultural producer is counting. I will just and again repeat that the subsidies in agriculture have been made in the amount of $3.7 billion. 2.4 refers to the part financed by the EU Of which is 2 and a half billion direct payments, the remaining 900 million are rural development. [[The incursion president: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44064	Another replica of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44065	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, this 2016 report The annual report on the implementation of the state budget points to an extremely significant problem that we are witnessing these days, so it is important to hear and what you can say on this subject. So from the State Audit Report, it is doubtless that Croatian health care is very, very sick. We're practically in the middle of a collapse. I'll tell you what the audit says. Due to unclear criteria for the relation of the HZZO budget, it is impossible to determine the actual obligations and debts of the state towards the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for sensitive groups whose health care costs are borne by the state. So the state currently owes more than 2 billion kuna to the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The debts of Croatian health care are 8 billion kuna and they are seriously threatening to completely decompose the health system. The long hospital is about 2 billion and 800 million kuna. And that debt no longer endures any delay. So it's nice to talk about the reduced deficit, but the health of Croatian citizens is at risk. The Minister of Health offers no solution, yesterday we could see it, and the state does not at the same time pay its obligations to the Croatian Health Insurance Office. If the state had at least fulfilled all its obligations over the last two years, this debt could now be paid to a hospital that is in some cases longer than a year. Some hospitals haven't paid their bills in a year. And the debt is, I repeat, 2 billion and 800 million kuna. What does the Minister of Finance do, that the Croatian health system does not collapse and endanger the health of Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44066	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44067	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here are our colleagues from the State Audit, it's not nice, it wouldn't have been good, it wouldn't have been wrong to interpret them, of course, too much, but I will certainly say that as Minister of Finance and my entire team at the Ministry of Finance we greatly appreciate their dedicated work, which has been doing all these years and we take very seriously all of their recommendations and generally suggestions which, in the report itself, count, among other things, are being referred to, of course, the problem of the health system, of which surely, that here and in your question, you have asked a representative question a while ago, we have answered. This is certainly one of the topics that we should give great importance to both in the Croatian Parliament and in general to the professional public, because there are some facts. I'll repeat what you said, but also give a few new ones. So, on the one hand, he had a recommendation, a very clear recommendation from the State Office for Auditing, which says that the criteria and criteria for the allocation from the state budget to the health system should be clearly established, so there is this main criticism or recommendation, I would look, and so I read the State Office for Auditing, given that we do not have, after the Croatian Health Insurance Office has been expelled or excluded from the State Treasury system, we have a lot less, in fact, insight into their real state. But, of course, we still have the numbers. The total state, I can tell you at the end of 3 months 2017 the total debt, the entire health system is at 8 billion 155 million kuna, of which hospitals are some 4 billion 900, the rest of the debt, is HZZO debt. When I return to this part of my or our part of fiscal policy and budget, you know very well that all the part about the increase in these commitments and debts has been included in the budget and in the deficit itself, however, the fact is that these figures are really high. And we as the Ministry of Finance, and as the Government, and of course, the principally resolution minister, will certainly do very much to make that key step and I would say that it should mostly be on the bulky side of the health system to stabilize this system. We think we have quality health security and protection, but on the other hand, fiscally and financially is not sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44068	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, so I'm not going to talk, and I didn't answer the line to talk about the implementation of the state budget, because macroeconomic indicators are being monitored neatly, so to speak, on the revenue side of the budget, and I don't think there's much to say. However, I would like to share with you certain thoughts regarding the extra budget funds. Very often, when budgeting and budgeting, they are not spoken of. And what they say in slang, it's about 35 billion a year. And also, we brought this House back, back in 2010. The fiscal responsibility law, which forces all those who use budget funds to behave in certain ways. And if we look at this financial report, which HZZO made on the basis of the cash principle, then there's nothing wrong, they're positive. However, three years ago, when HZZO is segregated from the treasury, it has been said that the HZZO separation will solve all health problems. Then, and I think that today we have a lot of moral human right to say it, I said that nothing will be solved, because HZZO does not solve anything or solve anything. Today, we have financial reports of a health debt of more than 3.5 billion kuna, and I think it is high time that all participants in the process start to observe the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and on the basis of that, face practical responsibility in a certain way to the Ministry of Finance, above all according to the Prime Minister. And then we'll have a clear situation and I think it's time for HZZO to go back to the state treasury, and all available resources to be used by those who use them. And one more thing I want to mention, which is the financial plan of the Croatian Roads. The question is, are they doing it right? But let's not forget that four years ago, we took 500 million kunas to HAC and gave it to the Croatian roads. We do not see from this financial report what this has been spent on and whether these funds have been rerouted towards the county road administrations, what was it supposed to be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44070	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44071	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, of course, you know very well and certainly you are one of those who not only looks at the state budget, but is looking at the execution of extra budget users, as well as all ministers, former, present, future, surely that in this segment, as much as it may seem, very interesting but hiding very many situations and generally challenges of the overall fiscal policy. I will just also mention HZZO as part of the 2016 draft budget and their financial plan at the level of 22 billion 465 million kuna, is reduced to a total result of 0. It'll be just as much income as expenditure. So we're already showing one, I'd say a dose that doesn't give too much trust, that everything is the way it should be in some way. I will not certainly enter into discussions of previous governments, but I can only assume that my predecessors, fellow ministers, since they were all very much responsible for public finances and, in general, together with all co-workers in the Ministry of Finance, were not for the HZZO to be detached from the State Treasury system, because from the perspective of the budget from the perspective of fiscal policy it just actually means less control, insight into the business itself and the financing of these systems. And when I came here as finance minister, it took me a long time to actually get these figures that I just presented here, and it must have been the apparent separation of HZO from the Treasury, it didn't solve any problems in the health care itself. As far as Croatian roads are concerned, that you are also right about the alignment of these 20 limes that were then on the Croatian highways, they are given one 20 lip HC to other HZ infrastructures. The result of the Croatian roads last year is positive, some 38 million kuna, however, there are still many challenges in the business of the Croatian roads itself. We as Government have decided on a model of financial and business restructuring of the entire highway system and the roads we expect this year to move positively on this financial part. But again, without business restructuring, we will not be able to find the right model, so that part about Croatian roads is certainly very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44072	Thank you. The next is a replica of that respected representative, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44073	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, in your presentation, especially when you were talking about the spending party, I've got three things I want to share with you and the public. First of all, I'm glad you mentioned that because of the unfavourable ratio of pensioners, this expenditure is linked to €38.6 billion with a lot of sensitivity, you are talking about this ratio relative to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Then you were talking about the expense side related to social benefits, it seems to me to be some 2.3 billion kuna or unemployment benefits of the 1.6 billion kuna. I'm glad you brought this up for a reason, for example, just for a guaranteed minimum fee or for an extra for help and care for about 170 thousand users. There must be room for certain people to save the state budget, that's what I'm saying. And the most painful thing I've heard, and these are the expenditures related to child support of 1.5 billion kuna, and as far as I'm concerned, you said they were reduced by about 108 million kuna compared to last year's period. If we know that the allowance for children per user is about 367 kuna or annually 4000 and 400 kuna, this means that in the Republic of Croatia, a lot less children were born somewhere around 13 and 14 thousand children than in the previous period. That is why, from your perspective as Minister of Finance, your participation in the Government and us here in the Parliament with due respect and educational reform with due respect and public administration reforms and health reforms, given these tax figures, I think that the reform of all reforms is, but also for you, demographic reform and reform of demographic renewal, which I ask you to draw particular attention to in your work, and also in the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44074	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44075	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So here's exactly from this last part I think it should and should start because there is no person in the House, nor in all of Croatia who would resist in this last finding you said, that it is certainly number one and we can say whether they called it reform or in general one of the key challenges with which we all gather as not only a state but as a society is this demographic image and trends of demographics that are not secret and that our scientists and experts are very clearly and in one unequivocally communicating that they are very unfavorable. And here's the effect of that, unfortunately, we see in these numbers. So the total amount for children's allowances in 2016 is at the level of 2015 in terms of individual payments that is 374.77 June, however, as you have found yourself when you add up the total mass it is smaller than in 2015, above all because of the fact that you mentioned that we had fewer born compared to 2015 and less users of that child's allowance itself. As Government, we addressed this issue in an adequate way for the first time is within one ministry in the first place of the Ministry of Demography, so we give great importance to demographic restoration, but for the right and full demographic restoration with all these measures that we have launched so far, and this is one more stimulating measure towards our parents or births in terms of maternity leave and parental leave. On the other hand, a whole series of those other measures we are planning to propose, which I would say about demographic policy, however, must be systematic. So there are no one-time measures that will solve this problem, but there must be systematic measures. Also, sometimes when it comes to social assistance or social care, just say briefly, so what you are as a secretary of state in your term but generally all working together, so that the whole social policy needs to be adequately targeted, that these means are indeed directed to those who need them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44076	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister. First, it can be congratulated on the good indicators of this 2016 budget report. I hope the trend in the first six months of this year is the same, perhaps even better. And you mentioned in your statement that somewhere around 7% there was an increase in income tax. I am now interested here, did this trend in this percentage increase follow the percentage of salary increases in Croatia? Why am I saying that? I believe that if these trends were to continue, if it were to finally introduce order into the finances of the Republic of Croatia that the government should at present and more attention to creating conditions and increasing wages because simply everything we have done these 25 years was to be built, I should think that the infrastructure was too little to invest in people and that there is the biggest problem we have today and in this part of which my colleague Babic was talking about and all the other colleagues and colleagues were talking about. So, simply is there any indication that in the event of these trends of positive trends, people in Croatia would have higher wages? I think that's the problem with all the problems right now that we need to focus our attention specifically and create this one social security. And I think the budget will also be recharged if there are higher salaries there will be more taxes paid, it can simply spin that wheel more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44078	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44079	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you, of course, for the courtesy of thanking you for your congratulations. Congratulations of course go to the Government, the Ministry of Finance, my entire team but go to the economy, because I always communicate very clearly, all economic indicators are better than expectations, primarily taking credit for the Croatian economy which it has shown after 6.5 years of recession, difficult economic and general circumstances that it is resistant and that it finds strength and resources for growth. But on the other hand, thank you, of course, for the congratulations on fiscal policy, because in 2016, it was certainly very challenging that we were able to do what we had drawn out. As far as income tax is concerned, they can, of course, agree on the part of the findings you said, surely we would all like to see higher employment and higher wages in Croatia. The effects of income tax on income in 2016 are the result of one side of the wage movement, unfortunately they are not and cannot monitor such high growth rates as the achievement of the income tax itself because they are not only an integral part of the salary, therefore the wage correction is, of course, the state of total employment. So the combination of these two factors affects the overall result of income from income tax. But I will also mention what you know very well and the entire Croatian Parliament and the public that at the end of last year, we as the Government were practically the first measure or the first decision we have made to propose to the Croatian Parliament a package amending the laws in the tax system, so the tax reform that has been directed among other things in this section of which you are talking about, which is to expand the base from the perspective of the budget, would mean that we encourage economic activity, to encourage consumption, investment and general employment and wages, which will once again have positive repercussions to the state budget. So that's the element on which we put the most emphasis, we're not just looking at it from the perspective of the budget because all that, that so-called. The expansion of the tax base, of course, has, these are positive economic repercussions, have both of course and positive effects on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44080	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the Honorable Minister is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44081	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, when we talk about implementing the 2016 budget, along with the data that you have presented, we need to do an analysis of what this 2016 looked like from a political point of view. It means that the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic came and adopted the budget after 3 months of the year. That after that we had 4 months of the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic and then almost a year of elections, i.e. the technical budget and the technical government. So the fact sure is that there weren't any special ones, I would say the aspects and work of the government that preceded what we're discussing today and here than I would have said that one trend that happened as a result of economic growth and it's good to reduce the deficit and it's good that we have a more separate option for certain groups. You said here that you made tax reform and increased wages to the most wealthy and wealthy people in the Republic of Croatia. But what I'm protesting here and what I'm rebelling about and I don't think it's right is that the retirement population, so over a million pensioners, experienced an increase in the average pension of $12.83 at the monthly level in 2016, $12.83. Here we're talking about releasing tens of thousands of kuna taxes for the richest, here we're talking about reducing the deficit, having room to help people, but the pensioners nothing, 0.57% seems to me, 12 kuna a month. Is this the policy of this government and when will it finally change in Croatia? That's what we need to talk about, these are our fellow citizens who need help the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44082	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44083	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here I believe that you have listened to my presentation outside the assembly and that you have heard because I have just referred to pensions and said in the planning of the 2016 state budget that we have said that this is the only item of expenditure on which we do not want to nor seek any kind of savings, reduction or the like, taking into account the fact that the unfavourable ratio of insurance and pensioners and mainly considering the fact that the average pension is even below 40% of the average salary. In accordance with the positive regulations, the legal regulations applicable to all and to the government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, were made two adjustments, two alignments, as is already the beginning of the year and in the second half of the year, given so-called. The Swiss formula, therefore pay and inflation, was made from January 1st, 0.46% of July 1st, 0.35. So that's what we applied based on the existing regulations that were valid. At the same time, however, there remains a question, which is of course always relevant to us and I refer to the previous replica of Croatian counterparts who also said that it is crucial to actually encourage and expand the tax base, so to encourage economic investment activity, raise employment and pay to have a greater room for more efficient, fair and better allocation of budget funds. And certainly there, along with the mentioned segments of demographics, socials, should, of course, be apostrophe of pensions. I mentioned tax policy and tax reform. I'll repeat again, for countless times, that's what I said, so tax regulations don't affect any of the employees' wages, we influence or prescribe how much tax burden is on their gross salary. The effects of tax reform despite all criticism are already seen as positive. In recent days we will also present the implementation of the budget and, of course, submit a report to the Croatian Parliament for the first 6 months of this year, which will show that tax reform and only the implementation of the budget is on track. And I apologize, just for a little while, these objective circumstances that you said in 2016 I also counted the opening but I also mentioned that there were many expenditures that we didn't originally plan but we managed to significantly reduce the deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44084	Thank you very much. We will now move on to replicas, the esteemed Ivan Klesic, the main state auditor. He's the first respected representative of Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44085	Thank you very much. Dear auditor, with assistants. Always do your reports neatly and show a number of illegalities, but apparently our system stops the whole story. I just asked the minister about the concession. So the revenue in that part was answered to me, but in the second part did not respond to Agrokor’s 3,7 billion kuna support, you as a state auditor can check or check, whether it is possible to check you as an auditor, how much the amount went to a concert in Agrokor for agriculture because it was a company in which for 10 years there was no tax control where Croatian agriculture was destroyed, Croatian suppliers who produced and the fact that the minister was manipulating the first reading of the Treaty where they could be given the amendment, where it was natural to accept, tried to turn the story in a direction where there was no need, because in the included moments he was exempting around this story as a minister, so he would ask you to check this data and were thrown into a well at the damage of Croatian villages, to the damage of the demographic picture of Croatia where it was once at my end of cattle, today because all the incentives went to Todoroviæ, who knew how. I'm asking you, and you've done this thoroughly so far, to check this part because you're deluding someone here in the first reading of the concession law, and you're not accepting it in the second reading, 10 amendments, and you're not coming to this session as a minister, because you're cheating on the public. Please check whether Agrokor concert, which spent 10 billion kunas without bonds, which was recognised by the governor, did out of these 3.7 billion kunas, how much he received from the Croatian village and peasants because the deception of Minister Maric, just before he spoke, was disastrous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44086	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed Ivan Klesic, chief state auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44087	Dear Mr. Representative, what I can answer you, Agrokor is a private-owned company, and as far as we are concerned from the State Audit Office, of course we will, as always, do what is in the domain of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44088	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Chief State Auditor with Associates, I am extremely pleased that you have touched a provision in the Health Law in your report and tried to drag it to the full health situation. I think also because of this morning's request for a break, and in general what the trauma was all above all the finance ministers in the past 27 years, and in parallel with that then the health minister must finally say that the two laws must be joined together, it must finally be said how much Croatian health costs and how much for it Croatian citizens should single out. Until we can do it, we'll have a story like this. Why? Because this is practically about three subjects in the process. The first is the state budget which has certain obligations, which this high House has decided to take over both by adopting the law and by adopting certain commitments from the budget, we will impose on those who create the budget to ensure it. We've got HZO out of the treasury, saying it's going to solve something, and it definitely doesn't work out that way. So they operate and keep their financial documents based on the cash principle and that's why we have a situation that the HZZO report is practically positive. And those who basically create the cost side of HZZO, and therefore because certain university hospitals have their positions in the state budget, their financial bookkeeping leads in a different way. And then you can't compare, let's say from no document today, neither the Croatian public, nor the parliamentary representatives, nor the finance minister can talk about anything that isn't the subject of this, you can't tell what a real health situation is. And that's why he says, I'm glad you mentioned it, and I think that's the topic we need to talk about, that things need to be evened out, and above all, I think HZO needs to go back to the state treasury.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44090	The reply of the esteemed State Auditor Klesic. No answer, thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44091	Thank you very much. Here's what I did. I put up a line because I have to ask you something. Here are a few viewers, indirectly asking me after Minister Maric's statement, we listen to the whole debate, the deficit is gone, a small deficit, or has fallen significantly, and in one response the minister says that more than 8 billion kuna is a debt of the health system. So people are a little confused. Give it to you as an expert, maybe it's convenient to explain, how is it basically a deficit 3.4 and the debt of the health system is 8 billion? So are these accounts registered, where they're registered, how they're registered, where you analyze them, how do we know, because here's the thing, I understand how confused people are, and they're wondering how it's possible for us to have a minister here, all morning here saying that the deficit is very low, under 4 billion kuna, 3 and 400, and now we hear that the health care is under collapse and there's almost, I'd say it's not even 8 billion, but there's over 10 billion kuna of debt on it, and how does it actually register, where it is, why there's no record in this report, and why we don't have a real explanation and the real situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44092	The reply of the esteemed State Auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44093	Your Honor, I'll give you a few sentences, and... So we understand each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the health care has all the resources planned, and now we as auditors can only comment on whether it's well planned. That would be my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44094	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'll open up the debate. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first one will speak to the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44095	Honorable Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, Mr. Klesic with Associates. Here we have before us the implementation of the State budget for 2016 and as already mentioned in 2016 and the budget was actually adopted in a way that was temporary financing due to the parliamentary elections that were held in 2015 and the budget was finally adopted, so in March 2016. And this budget also experienced one change and additions that were actually more really technical. What is important to say is that after a six-year recession and a major crisis in 2016, which is a fractured crisis, and in fact the first signs of economic activity, the positive economic and economic activity that has begun, must be said during, or at the end of 2015. In fact, what is known in economic policy and science is that everything that needs to happen happens positively occurs very slowly, and the only thing that happens quickly is the crises and these are the fractures that must then be corrected for many years. During 2016, the minister also mentioned revenue of HRK 116.8 billion, which is 0.4% higher than in 2015, respectively. But compared to 15, it is more than 7 billion kunas more than what was achieved in that previous year. We must also say that expenditures were made at an amount of $120.2 billion, and the budget deficit or deficit was 3.3 and 3.4 billion, respectively, which we must note is smaller than the one planned for nearly 2 billion, i.e. a billion and 950 million kuna. And what we have to say is that there has been an increase in income, but even more significant savings, so perhaps the bad news will say that these savings came because the government failed to spend. However, I will say that what is very important and continuity and here I am personally also expressing my own, and that I also said on the board of pleasure, that in this continuity is actually the person who is at the head of this ministry and the co-workers who are very much helping him, that in this way it has also been achieved and certain rationalization and savings seen from this execution. Gross domestic product growth was 3%, and the reasons are primarily because of what has already been said here, due to increased exports of goods and services, due to growth in domestic demand, consumption of households and some growth in investment, and state consumption. We have to say that this is, this real growth is the largest economic growth since 2007, and these positive movements have been recorded in industrial production, retail trade and what is very significant is tourism which has significantly drawn the entire economy, but it should be mentioned that after 7 years it has also shown that growth is actually positive movements and in construction that is not negligible. What are the revenues that are better achieved than planned? When we review the state budget then we see that in the amount greater than planned tax revenues have been achieved and that is more than 71.7 billion kuna and that is an increase compared to 2015. 5.4%. What should be said is that these tax revenues, otherwise in the structure of the total budget, account for 61.4% of the revenue of the budget, and the most significant in the structure of tax revenues are taxes on goods and services, i.e. what is closer to us and that is value added tax. The value added tax has been achieved by over 45.2 billion kuna. Expenses, taxes and excise fees 14.75 and gambling fees at 1.2 billion. It has increased, therefore, the value added tax which is normally the highest and accounts for 63% of the total tax revenues, reflects increased personal consumption and a very good tourist season. It's increased by 3.8%. In the context of income tax revenue that has been achieved from 2.2 billion kuna, the reason is that the increase, primarily, increased employment rates and we have to remember that in 2016 the administrative unemployment rate was 14.8% compared to the previous year, which was around 17%. It should also be noted that high income from interest on savings has been achieved. And now that you look at it, that income tax participation is only 3.1%. Then we see how many of those 2.2 billion kunas and we witness how much they have a significant impact on local and regional self-government, on the revenues they make. In 2016, revenue from profit tax was significantly increased and that is over 15% higher, and it was achieved at 7.2 billion kuna. All this is due to increased economic activity, but what is still to be said is that this is also the reason for the withdrawal of profits from companies owned by the state into the state budget. Income from the contribution, more than 22 billion kuna were achieved, and it primarily refers to pension insurance and employment contributions, given that health care is actually allocated from the budget. What we need to say here is that all these contributions are actually insufficient when we look at how much they make and pension expenditures are more than 36 billion kuna. All the long revenues are 22.9 billion kuna, and they account for almost 20% of the budget, and what are they? All these other revenues and other revenues are primarily revenues from foreign aid. So we have to say that in 2016, aid from international organisations, so withdrawing funds from the EU, amounted to 7.8 billion kuna and that is over 57% higher than the previous year. This is therefore aid from the European Regional Development Fund, the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, the Cohesion Fund, and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. Out of administrative and administrative fees and charges under special regulations, €3.87 billion has been achieved, and in the context of the proceeds from the assets, it has been shown at an amount of € 3.4 billion, of which 1.4 revenues from the profits of companies and credit and other institutions, and concession fees are slightly more than €940 million. In the context of the sale of non-financial assets, more than 450 million kunas have been achieved, and these are the regular assets derived from the sale of apartments, equipment facilities, and means of transport. The expenditure of the state budget shall be carried out through budgetary users and shall be allocated in 2016 to 50 divisions. Total expenditures amounted to 120.2 billion, or 98.8% of the plan, i.e., they are small, as I said for 1.48 billion kuna. Compared to 2015, total expenditures are higher by 1.6 billion kuna, but for the reason that there has been an increase in those costs stemming from sources, which do not affect the level of lack of state budget and by 2.5 billion kuna, and there has also been a reduction in expenditure financed from sources directly affecting the level of the missing by 830 million kuna. So there was saving on everything except employees and help. According to the cost structure, the most significant expenditures are the fees for citizens and households, which are actually 37.4 total expenditures or nominally 45 billion kuna. As I said before, pensions and pension incomes amounted to $16.8 billion compared to 20 billion, only so that the public can assess how much these expenditure ratios are. The children's allowance amounted to $1.48 billion, and pensions increased by €122.3 million in 2016 for the sake of harmonisation, as noted by the minister on two occasions, 1.1 and 1.7, as well as increases in the number of pensioners. It's certainly not enough for pensions especially that are small, but here's only for comparison, if we know that the cost of holding elections is over 120 million kuna, then here you can judge that in any case, you'd rather, do it and increase it by so many small pensions anyway, if such is not necessary. Costs for employees amounted to 21.5 total budget costs and amounted to €25.8 billion and increased by € 792.8 million, and primarily from 2015 for the payment of regresses and Christmases that occurred and were paid in the state and public sector around half a billion kuna and to increase expenditure on EU-funded employees. In fact, there is also a way to increase the funds and how to make bigger contributions, since 71.9 million kunas were spent on employees of EU funds and 85.4 million kunas were invested in 2015 and 2016. 157.3 million kuna, which is an increase almost double. In addition, expenditure on staff financed by their own and dedicated revenue from budgetary users has been increased and those which were not compulsory and are not required to pay in the state budget. Material expenditures were incurred at 11.1 and this is mainly expenditure on services of 5.4 materials and services and energy 3.9. The financial expenditure relating to borrowing and other financial expenditures amounted to 10.6 billion, down from 2015 and accounted for interest on issued bonds and vault records of 8.96 billion and interest on loans received and loans 1.38. The subsidies were already mentioned at the level of 6.1 of which agriculture 3.7, but we also have subsidies paid in transport and transport infrastructure 1.3, therefore for rail passenger transport, also for the implementation of the Autoway concessions Treaty. In the economy and entrepreneurship subsidies amounted to 833 million kunas, most of which to the restructuring of a shipyard of 668 million kuna. Aids given abroad have actually been made at €13.4 billion, of which 3.2 refers to the contribution of the Republic of Croatia in this year 2016 to the EU budget. 2.6 is the transfer to HZZO, 2.3 financing decentralised functions so help local, regional and regional self-government, and 1.9 for fuel charges for Croatian roads. Other expenditures have been made since 5.1 and these are different support in higher education for accommodation and nutrition students and program financing of higher schools, support for religious communities, etc. and capital assistance for the transfer of Croatian roads and HZ Infrastructure. The purchase of non-financial assets was spent 3.1 of which 925 were financed by structural investment funds. What has been mentioned several times, according to the report on the excessive budget deficit and the debt level under the ESA standard, is a fiscal rule that says that the annual growth rate of the general budget expenditure must not exceed the annual growth rate of the projected or estimated GDP, so the total expenditure relevant for the calculation of the fiscal rule has increased by 1.4 while nominal GDP has increased by 2.8. So the share of public debt has been reduced it is now 83.7% at the end of 2016 and it is the first time that it happens during this multiannual period. However, we must not relax because not all structural causes between health and health, and the creation of shortages are still resolved and it is important to continue to improve the economic situation, increase employment and increase employment ratios in relation to pensioners in order to have faster and better sustainable social growth and development. Of course, the HDZ Club supports this report, and compared to the audit report, I have to say that these are tax-based failures. However, what should be said is that conditional opinion is very high and that much has been corrected, but for the assessment it is also important that all participants in the budget system and budget users are in synergy and respect all that the Ministry of Finance brings and proposes to all budgetary users. That's actually going to reduce these mistakes. Also just for a short time, so out-of- budget users had a income of 31.7 billion kuna and a expenditure of 30.2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44096	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleagues Perić presented the facts of the budget which has positive shifts in 2016. I have to say here that then the government was led by Tihomir Oreshkovic, who was very short of meaning and the fact is that the positive indicators are the best. If critical people can tell numerous speeches about Tihomir Oreshkovic when she was a technical government, which is also a fact that it would be much better if the continuity of the technical government than those of the government that destroyed the financial system. I asked you a moment ago, and I'm asking you, since you're also the chairman of the Committee on Agricultural Signs of Subsidies that are $3.7 billion in this budget in the 2016 Report. Do you know how many amounts they went to the Agrokor concert? So it's about agriculture and what's about agriculture. Because the fact is again I repeat that 10 years of control has not entered that concert. So I'm not just accusing the government in one way, I'm accusing you in 10 years. The fact is, that money was gone that was meant for farmers and that the village was destroyed in your back, in my back. If you simply mentioned tourism and tourist movements, it was targeted to invest in farmers who would be engaged in livestock farming, which would be additional value and tourist financial indicators would be much better because something like this would have been produced and something like this was destroyed, invested in a well because it's visible now what happened to Agrokora. And I'm sorry that the minister didn't answer me more precisely. I repeat again, it's not only his fault, it's his only exception to me at the most difficult moment. It is the guilt of all those governments who have not done their job as well as Zoran Milanovic and those who have allowed Mercator to buy, to accumulate financial difficulties and to reinvest into Agrokor. So, can your board check out this farm business? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44098	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44099	Thank you. Mr. Bulj, all subsidies given to anyone are possible on the website of the Payments Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture. What I certainly know is that they are in accordance with the positive regulations that exist that all subsidies are given and given in the right way, so legal. Whether it seems too much or too little to you for someone else, but the fact that they are based on documentation and applicable positive regulations is determined and assigned means in the way provided for in the law. Therefore, there is no doubt about it, and that is what is most important and what is really when the state audit controls it must be kept in a way that controls whether they are assigned legally. Therefore, because you think someone's got too much, it may be your personal opinions, but you really need to respect the law and based it on actually calculating from subsidies to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44100	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Peric, distinguished ministers and chief auditor. So one of the questions that has been raised from this debate so far is with all the information that you have listed as data and now something Mr. Bulj, a colleague, said that in the year in which we had two governments, two choices, we have recorded complete political instability. That's the key question, that's the key question. Do I see that there are a lot of praises to the Government here, but let's be realistic, how much the two governments were in such an unstable situation that one significant part of the mandate actually was technical. Therefore, it is one trend which clearly gave its results in 2016 and gives them both now and in 2017 thanks to the recovery of the economy above all and the strengthening of the revenue side of the budget. What is slightly less said deficit in the last year should be thanked, in the alleged signs of "thank you" not meeting the expenditure foreign budget in one part, and especially in the part where capital investments are concerned, and those you mentioned were very much growing and the plan was even bigger and these are EU funds. So they're not completely absorbed in accordance with the plan and that's also a fact. What I would like to say more and there will probably be opportunities through other replicas, if the results are so good, why, in this year, should VAT be introduced to caterers or to double the VAT rate to one of the most promising sectors in the country, etc., etc. So a whole series of questions open up, but I hope there's a chance we can talk about it more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44102	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44103	Dear fellow Greek, you know what I said and in my opening speech, so the results in the shifts in fiscal policy are very, very slow and difficult. And here is precisely because of the overall environment of a favourable, economical, addition to that of entering the EU, only now, by reducing or ending such a strong impact of the economic crisis, can we actually see that our economy has resisted all of these really negative trends. And just now we see all of these positive effects that happen in our own, actually the environment that we're in. So nothing happened, I mentioned the positive effects started, so they started in 2015, they continued in 2016, we can't just be satisfied that this is what's best but we have to be very pleased that the trends have turned in the other direction, in a positive direction, and that we can then manage much better in fact with our public debt, winning our commitments and all the rest of what we know is actually the whole fiscal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44104	The next replica of the esteemed representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44105	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you said that in economic policy and science what happens in a positive direction always goes slowly, and what happens when it comes to crises is actually happening fast. And speaking in fact of this positive direction, you were talking about certain macroeconomic indicators related to 2016 when you talked about the implementation of the state budget. Well, here's to your debate, in fact, there are some macroeconomic indicators that you didn't mention, and they were actually updated from CNB data from 01.04.2017, so let's say exports of goods and services compared to 2014 grew 4.2% in 2016, foreign debt in 2015 was 103.4% compared to GDP, and in 2016 91.4%. The current balance of payments account was 4.8&a now 2.6, gross international reserves in 2014 were 12.6 billion and now 13.5 billion. Unemployment decreased, employment increased. So, what am I saying? I want to say what you said in the introduction, not reducing government work and positive things in 2015, so that only one responsible, transparent state budget and legal and tax stability actually creates a positive environment for domestic and foreign investors. But also international market responsibilities. Remember the situation when Minister Maric went to London and refused to sign that loan, that he was criticized in public, actually turned out to be good because of this non-signature we saved on tens and hundreds of millions of kunas, at least for interest. So, the imperative of every government, especially our government, would be one that encourages both domestic and foreign investors in a legal and tax-stable environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44106	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44107	Thank you. Comrade Babić, you have complemented me, I didn't want to mention everything you could actually read from the report itself, and thank you for supplementing me, but in any case, it's very important to just say that the stability of the political, we can only contribute that here are the interest rates that were at some point on the financial market over 6% now are 3.25, which then actually restores trust in this country, in the functioning of our system, and in fact, we're making it easier for ourselves and we're saving at the end, because here and last year, the savings on behalf of interest were over 300 million kuna. So, our goal is all of this, which is at some point, we can't forget, at some point, we weren't in the system, or we weren't part of the EU, and then the risks were much higher, and by doing that, we're in that other environment where it actually gives us the opportunity to have certain savings and to spend much more rationally what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44108	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44109	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Peric, I am interested in the fact that these reports we have from the State Audit Office are very detailed, I really always read them, and I already said once and on the board that for every commendation, but also on the board I asked what is with this regular series of irregularities and recommendations we see in these reports, so the gentleman, I think you were just on the board, said that you actually passed it on to the competent institutions or the State Attorney's office and that you don't really have any further than this phase of insight into what's going on. So now I'm interested in whether you as chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, whether you have ever asked for a question or any other procedure, which is actually happening with these irregularities and recommendations since it says here that the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations whose implementation would help increase the transparency of the use of budget funds and compliance of business with laws and other regulations, if when, and what you have received for the answer, if not, does this mean that you are not interested or simply procedurally unable to do so, if there is no way or initiative for us to start running such things, in fact that we know what happens with all these recommendations and irregularities after the audit is done with your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44110	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44111	Dear colleagues, of course, that the state review puts out certain recommendations and that it is a set of guidelines. The State Audit Act also provides for all procedures in which certain failures or possible illegal actions are to be passed on to the State's attorney and all bodies responsible for this. Therefore, there is no need for me to be the chairman of the Committee on Finance and I am taking part in this because I say the law has set it all down in detail. What the State Audit Office makes as an observation does not necessarily mean that it is illegal, though. It may occur that in the procedure itself, something is wrong or flawed or insufficiently standardized, so it is at the Ministry of Finance and all other users to remove these shortcomings. But I'm saying, all that the State Audit Office makes as an observation is highly appreciated and respected in all the institutions that the State Audit Office controls, and so are the ministries and units of local and regional self-government. And normally all other companies owned or co-owned by the state. Therefore, there are no mistakes in that. Therefore, everything is prescribed by the State Audit Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44112	Thank you very much. We will continue with the points that were discussed before, and now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates and respected state auditors with associates. We are facing today the implementation of the 2016 budget and the revision of that budget, and in short, there have already been talks here and the introduction of positive macroeconomic developments, primarily on higher GDP than 2.9%, which is driven by the strengthening of exports and household consumption. There is certainly one of the main major, better GDP and stronger tourism, better capacity, we have seen also recently, numerous investments in tourism and we believe that Croatian tourism after many long years, when it was on 2.3 stars, hotel complexes, tourists who were not privatised that they were finally working full capacity, and that such a tourist product it is certain that it will guarantee us a stable income in the future. Because this certainly affects, not only the revenues of tourism companies, but that it certainly also affects more stable GDP. Also, what is very important to say is better exports, and we see the first positive effects of participation in the single European market, certainly contributes to both restructuring and shipbuilding, because in 2011, the shipyard was in a very difficult situation, now in 2015, 2016, and we saw later after the issue of state guarantees for the Uljanik to work well, and these are positive components, not only which draws exports but also draws industrial production. Introductoryly, the minister here said that industrial production grew 5%, tourists' overnight stays 9%, retail to a little 4%, so these are all components that are slowly corrected. For a long time it took, it was not easy for six years of recession to run public finances, and I would now perhaps say briefly here to get a general notion of how it was to run public finances under recession, meaning when it started in 2009, and colleagues to Shuker, later on, colleagues to Linic, to me and now to Mr Maric, as to the revenue side of the budget and in what conditions public finances were. It says here that the income of the state budget is about $116.8 billion, expenditures are about $120 billion. Here they are not included later added additional extra budget funds of about 31.8 billion kuna as soon as the revenues of local self-government units are added to about 22.23 billion kuna, meaning the total revenues of the entire tax policy are around 170 billion kuna. But the highest income here was also about him being spoken by VAT. We see that in 2016 VAT amounts to 45 billion kuna, which is an increase of 3.8% compared to the previous year. How important VAT is not only in this amount you can see during the tourist season. It seems to me that the state budget report itself shows that the VAT does not have the same charge during the summer, given the economic activity during the year at 8 months there were more than 5.1 billion kuna payments in the 8th month last year, and last year there were 4.1 billion. So only in the 8th month did we have a higher VAT charge than a billion kuna. How much tourism means, how many millions of tourists coming to the Croatian coast, how much it means to spend in tourist facilities as much as it means for the entire economic activity. To make only one short parallel as much as it is and how it was to run public finances. We are talking about 2009 when the first was a strong recession reached Croatia, then VAT revenues amounted to 37 billion kuna, today we are talking about a VAT of 45 billion kuna, meaning 8 billion kunas more in the state register now that we have left the recession and then when we entered the recession in 2009. When we talk about excise duties then, there was a total tax revenue of 11 billion kuna, today there are excise duties around 14.8 means nearly 15 billion kuna, so 4 billion kunas more excise fees are paid into the state budget compared to when there was a recession. When we talk about pension contributions without these transfers then it was somewhere before the crisis when that unemployment started about 19.2 billion, today in the pension system about 20 billion kuna, so there's an additional one billion kuna for the budget. Also health insurance was at about 17.7 today about 18.2 billion, meaning half a billion kuna more and in health contributions. I'm telling you straight, so here if these certain revenues were summed up when Croatia entered the recession today when we're going out and your recessions are about 15 billion kunas. 15 billion kuna on the revenue side of the budget, which means the economy, which means how sensitive we are as a small economy to economic downturn, to economic activity. And that's why I think it's very important to continue a certain incentive in the economy, when I say how important measures are and how important the measure is, and today we're talking here, there was talk about Agrokor, how important it is to stabilise the business of such a chain is that only in the name of 45 billion kuna of the VAT retailer pays you somewhere more than 20 billion kuna of VAT a little sales chain. It means how important it is that no matter who will ultimately own that chain of commerce, how this will happen but how important it is that those people who work there stay working, it is very important that these shelves that are filled to continue to be full this summer are we seeing how sensitive the Croatian economy is to fill the budget. I showed what it means in 2009, what it means in 2015, so when we have some discussions to be aware of what a particular market disturbance means and what concrete measures mean to help the economy. This was about the health system, and I need to say a few words about it. The Croatian health system is open year after year to numerous discussions on it, resolutions, debts etc., etc. And we have to say that there has been no government that has succeeded in bringing this particular hole that exists in the health system to normal circumstances. And here were the speeches about the separation of HZZO from the Treasury, and that's what I'm going to say then, I was also speaking as minister when this HZZO broke out of the treasury that I wasn't in agreement with the release of HZZO from the Treasury, but then the government made a decision to isolate HZZO from the Treasury. As finance minister, I couldn't influence it and it was settled in other laws. And I would like to see after three years of separating HZZO from the treasurery what the effects of the speech were and then that certain health debts will be resolved, that this will be much clearer and more transparently managed by the health system, etc., but what you see here today, and in the execution of HZZO, we only have two specific short lines about it. He didn't have much money to spend in health care, and I don't think this is a question for the Minister of Finance, but it's certainly a question for the Minister of Health to be here and actually defend that one of his budgets. Because you see here we have 100, about, said the Minister of Finance, originally of our incomes we have here about 100 billion kuna and when we talk about one third of that we have extra budget funds over 30 billion kuna and we don't have people here to tell us about how money is spent in health, which means how much today's health service is going to cost and how these debts are going to be settled in the future. There was also talk here about the state budget payment from public companies, which shows that in 2015, public companies representing one part of the burden and their share of the debt were entered into public debt, especially when we speak from the transport sector. The HEP’s payments of 607 million kuna, i.e. a total of public companies, mean somewhere around 865 million kuna, which reiterates that these public undertakings have made a certain part of the restructuring and, above all, as regards HEP’s profits. Here's the payment of €483 million of CNB. When we talk about the expenditures of the state budget, it is certainly good that we always focus on the expenditures of the state budget because it is the revenues given by a particular economy, but this here is good that the expenditures of the state budget are still kept under control. And there, anyway, I hope that despite last year's technical government that certain ministers have not even managed to spend a certain amount of money. I hope that in 2017 and in the coming years, the minister will succeed in making this part of the positive effects that came from the economy that everything goes on to pay off the public debt that continues to be a problem. And here I absolutely give him full support that together with, he and his colleagues manage to keep this four-year term of expenditure under control. Especially when we see that employee expenses are somewhere around 21.5 billion kuna. Material expenditures, there was no significant part of the increase, subsidies are decreasing, and that is what we have been saying all along that this part of the component that we receive from the EU, as well as the funds that we receive from EU funds that we should change with the national component. Because actually that's the goal, that's the real budget restructuring. So it's not like the domestic funds we're withdrawing from the EU funds to pump EU funds into that part and make our budget grow. So I think the aim is to reduce taxes on Croatian citizens, reduce taxes on Croatian entrepreneurs, and replace that part with EU aid. I think that way, if, in one four-year term, we succeed somewhere around 5 and up to 10% of the total budget, I think we are, and we hope that we can do even more, that, in particular, use those funds to finance that it will go in the right direction. Especially why? Because all infrastructure projects, we know that 10 years ago all infrastructure projects were financed from public funds and roads and highways, railways, all of us, that we financed our entire infrastructure from public funds, and that's why we have so much public debt. That is why it is both public debt and 290 billion kuna because we have the best roads in Europe, we have 1250km of highways and we have not been able to use any EU funds, European funds for that. We have better highways than many countries. So when we talk not only about highways, but also about Croatian roads, and also about railways, we see well that the Peljeski bridge is coming from EU funds. And these are projects where Croatia was actually suspended for 10 years, suspended when the countries entered the EU in 2004, those 10 countries, when they could fully benefit from EU funds, when the whole part of their economic growth, the economic growth of these European countries was mainly based on these EU funds, Croatia could not use them at the time, could not use those funds and simply the whole process comes with delay. But that is why we hope that now this part of GDP, which is about 3%, will be one part of it, one part of it and the use of these EU funds. We see that here,... 7 billion kunas somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we see that payment, our budget payment is about 3.2 billion kuna. And here we have some kind of positive, positive one percent of GDP. 1% of GDP, we close our deficit budget and with higher payments from EU funds than we return there. If we set out to be the target of 2% or 3% of GDP then I think that will completely change the structure completely, what we can change in the structure of public finances because we know that most of our budgets are social transfers. Most of our budget was social transfers, told me about pensions, talked about health care, talked about other social benefits. There's over 50 of you, if we include that part of the health care unit. If, when we talk about transfers towards direct payments later in agriculture, unfortunately most of the transfer is social transfers because people in agriculture are mostly blocked and simply their agricultural production cannot ultimately get such a real swing that should be gained by using these pre-accession funds. So now there's a period where we hope these positive effects will be used in the implementation, what's been talking about structural reforms here for a long time. But structural reforms are done when your budget is zero, when you can actually do it to the citizens, when you can offer to the citizens a certain part, under quotes to say "some cuts", because then structural reforms are done. You can't do structural reforms when you have 400 thousand unemployed, when you have 45 billion blocked accounts, when you have 300 thousand blocked citizens, when you have large social transfers on the budget then you can very hard to do certain structural reforms. I think now is the time to try and show it from the next budget in the budget itself to make certain reforms or if the next crisis comes to us much more ready if we can be prepared at all because I say the budget before the crisis was balanced and then a very strong crisis has shown all certain imbalances and then suddenly you see, only on these tax revenues is 15 billion kuna less income. 15 billion kunas less revenue. How sensitive we are to economic activity, how sensitive we are to problems, here in this part of retail trade, and therefore all those who can contribute to restructuring and unfortunately, you will see, and not only Agrokor, a number of Croatian companies will be restructured. A number of Croatian companies will have to be restructured by all their suppliers participating in this supply chain and therefore we need to be very careful when we talk about not having any of our internal crises put the deficits down again. So, for now, we believe that these positive effects will continue in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44115	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas, so let's start from the beginning. He is the first to honor his representative, Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44116	Dear colleagues, Minister Lalovac. This is addressed not only to you, perhaps to the Minister and others. So you know, there's one saying, there's lies, bigger lies become statistics. You can read that any way you want. I'm interested in how the state budget is going to be filled, how it's going to be filled. We see, fiscal intrusions, tolls, electricity, etc. But I wonder how long this truck where three tires have been pierced for the last 20 years, how many miles does this country have? People retire at 51 years of age, you have 1.1 to do, one to retire. 50% of the people in state institutions sit there and stat. And I wanted to say something, but I won't, soldier. Where are the Greenfield investments... Investments in the last 20 years? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's that Toyota factory that was mentioned, what was supposed to be in Lika? What's going on? What do we expect, have we ever read reports neutrally these reports, what do the embassies write about us? The situation isn't so great that I already mentioned it. In the end, I'm glad that the revenues are being filled in, that it's pouring into the state budget, but when we're going to root problems, it's corruption. 30% of the grey economy, up to 30%, and what about the money that was taken out outside of Croatia? You have 14 families that owe the Croatian state 650 million kuna, only in taxes. What does Croatian diplomacy do? This bureaucracy of socialist, who will come to your country where 5% of the land is arranged? No one's coming. These are root problems. The more red tape, the more corruption. In the end, he would have mentioned something this morning, which I didn't have time to deny, I couldn't, on the statue of Mister Tesla in Gospić. He mentioned a young gentleman who used to fly into the orbit of Mr. Tesla, that the entire Gossip had been smashed, lined up with land, hundreds of grenades, and that a 550-pound bomb hit the Hotel Leika, where Tesla was. That's what I was gonna say. On the subject of Mr. Pernar here I have one theory that lizards rule Croatia, they are lizard people, and that's all... and that is the problem of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44117	Thank you very much. Here's this next replica of Anton Kleman's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44118	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, here at the beginning of your presentation you said that tourism is definitely a locomotive of Croatia's development and that it participates about twenty percent of GDP, I will agree with you, but you said that the key to this whole story was privatisation. So, privatisation, I agree in one part that it was successful, especially on the Istrian peninsula, because the other large systems in general were not sold out, so hotel by hotel, camp by camp. And it turned out to be a win-win combination. So, today we have large systems of Blue Lagoon Istria, tourists of Istria, so these are systems that have been through privatisation, and today they give the best results and Istria are ahead of tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia: but we have had a lot of problems with the rest of the work in Croatia's tourist portfolio, where we have managed to pull something out through the Ministry of Tourism, we have not let it go into bankruptcy, but we still have one big catalogue of tourism companies to privatise. You probably know, there are Jadran Crikvenica and Maestral and on the island of Vis several large companies in Dalmatia, therefore there is still much work to come up with a good situation in Croatian tourism. So there is still a lot of potential that tourism traffic is growing and we need to turn to our investors, definitely that the mantra of foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia is a little bit of a look at the other side, because here these days the most investment has from Croatian entrepreneurs in Croatian tourism, the building of representative facilities, hotels, smaller, larger hotels, and that is what adorns Croatia's tourist offer today. In that sense, I think we should step up the HBOR's efforts to lend such entrepreneurial ventures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44119	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kleman, I absolutely agree with you, especially when we talk about financing tourist facilities. Since it is investments that require a long period of return, the practice has shown that when they were financed through bank loans that were between 5 and 7% or up to 8 and 10%, that simply no hotel that was financed with that capital source, with such a large return, that later changed owners, we remember also down in Dubrovnik, that some bankers, that they were entering, that a certain Hypo group had entered certain hotels, eventually proved to be not a good model. This model, which is now the government in Croatia, when HBOR credits finance from about 1 and a half to 25 interest, when they finance up to 17 years, when you have a certain grace period, it is shown that these are profitable projects and that finally investors who want to invest in Croatia, domestic investors who want to invest in hotel facilities, can finally be profitable. And that's one good model, I hope that if we all agree here that we're going to further capitalize HBOR, and now it's showing that, as far as public finances are concerned, it wouldn't be any problem to put extra money into HBOR's capital and to continue to finance these other facilities, tourist facilities at interest rates and deadlines as it is financed both in France and in other countries. And then you will see that Croatian tourist facilities are profitable. But there's one thing here, and I don't know if there's been any talk here today about how to solve the upcoming tourist season. We know we have a labour problem and perhaps the minister will consider, Minister of Tourism on vouchers. We talked about this in person, and I think it would be good if we saw how much this tourism gives us in the budget, we could find some effective solutions and help tourist workers to do this season, and then hopefully later, Minister of Finance, Minister of Tourism will be pleased in 9 months. But it would be good if we had a solution to the problem of the labour force on the Adriatic right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44121	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A fellow Lalovac, the subsidies would triangulate those that would encourage, so development here I will... Agriculture 3.7 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mentioned that we are also late for infrastructure projects and others due to late entry into the EU. We received EU funds of 2 billion kuna during Minister Jakovina, so they ended up, not in the OPGs, but in Todorovic and others. My question is whether it's possible and I'm going to ask you the same question of what I'm asking and an audit that does its job in quality, the question of other institutions that don't operate in illegality. 3.7 billion kuna has gone to a concerted Agrokor. In a ten-year concert, you were a minister, not taxing any tax control, in which the stability of finance was compromised. Sam's governor admitted that he... together with the minister and you were probably, that for 10 years not only did not come in, but 10 billion kunas without cover were used by Agrokor as a blow to Croatia's financial and monetary stability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what we finance the incentive, the subsidies instead of the little O.P.G. he destroyed. That's why we have two-thirds of Croatia empty. This is about a number of subsidies, big money not only from the EU that I mentioned. So it's one sequence of destruction of Croatian villages, and we're not talking about industry. The fact that even part of this went away he went against the law because, we see the situation with Agrokora, which led to the whole country while he was buying Mercator, as it spread. You, as minister, must know this and tell me what is the solution to preserve our village and peasants, that these subsidies will not happen to Todorovic and others who are destroying the village and peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44123	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44124	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. So regarding, if there were certain irregularities I sincerely hope and recently read in the paper that some other institutions are combing the business of Agrokor and his companies in detail, so we let these institutions know what they're going to say when the whole investigation is over. However, regarding, not that I am now in some defense, defending Agrokor but quite, quite a long speech was all the time Agrokor imports, imports, imports, import lobbys, nothing but imports. Now recently, small farmers, OPGs, say Agrokor owes us money. Well, I don't know if he's working with them, or if he's not working with them, because he's 90 percent importing. The whole time in public was that Agrokor 90% is based on imports. It was recently research. It was RTL's research. They went to the store, they went to Lidl, they went to other chains. Do you know how much they found in Agrokor products from Croatian farmers? 60 to 70% somewhere. You know how many they found in Lidl, in this other one? They found 20%. Now I ask the question when we talk about foreign trade chains, to open up a transfer price issue here, to open up a question here whether it's Agrokor or whether it's foreign trade chains where you can find all two kunas great, but you can't find any Croatian products there. I ask again why our small producers can't be found on Lidl's shelves in Austria, Germany, Hungary, in those other countries, but all the time we're saying let's open up, and 60 to 70% of the market is not Agrokor. 70% of the market isn't Agrokor. 70% are foreign trade chains. Let's see how our agricultural products can be found in exports, so let's turn here. My question is why can't I meet you on their shelves? So I mean, there's also been a law here recently on the unfair trade margin that we're going to talk about anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44125	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, we heard here and in the debate and what I said earlier. So on the one hand, we have good macroeconomic parameters, on the other hand, we are still increasing certain burdens. It was mentioned earlier, so toll growth and then the rise in electricity price now expected, and then the rise in VAT prices in catering that definitely led to price increases in catering above 12%. You can all see that if you go to cafes, restaurants. You'll see in the more exclusive ones that both price increases and 50%, 60%. So that's something that we certainly didn't expect and that wasn't really necessary, it just wasn't necessary. But there's something else I wanted to say. On the other hand, when you look at where this new money goes from a public sector perspective. At the last budget we saw there was an increase in the separation for weapons. It is now said about the purchase of aircraft, has been increased again or some fees have been imposed which, meanwhile, have been limited through reforms, etc. etc. But the last thing that came as a surprise to me, so all pensions above 5,000 kuna are up 10%, and that's something I'll always be sitting here in this House, repeating, as long as this government doesn't correct that injustice. It is the largest number of pensions and internships with an average of 2200 kuna. So these pensions are between 1,000 and 1,000 kuna. Those pensions are unfairly low. The formula that's been in the last two, three years is unsustainable, it needs to be corrected, it needs to be found a model for these pensions to start growing just as they grow and pay. And I'm going to ask the government all the time, when they're going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44127	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Lalovec will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I agree with you, fellow Greek, however, when you have so-called. negative inflation, when you have a minus, as far as these prices are concerned, then we certainly know that 50% of price adjustments, pension adjustments are actually related to that part of inflation, and I think there's still a lot of interlocutors here for this issue of inflation is a colleague of Professor Lovrinović, who will definitely point out here, which means for the whole economy, and how much economy would otherwise work for us. Whether this growth would be 3% or maybe it would be 5% or 6%, if we had targeted inflation, as it has been said here for quite a long time. So we have to open up all the issues, not just the issues of this part of fiscal policy, but in this part and monetary policy, and certainly related to pension coordination, in this context, that we had such a targeted, targeted inflation, it seems to me that then these pensions would also not be aligned with 0.55 but would be a much larger amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44129	Thank you. Because most of his colleagues gave up. The last replica is that of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, you spoke on behalf of the SDP Club and I, as far as I understand, that the SDP Club actually supports the government's efforts to save the jobs in Agrokor through legal interventions and save natural suppliers who are related to Agrokor. It was just so little anyway, it was interesting to me. That's not why I answered. I answered, you were talking about expenses, you were talking about various funds. You didn't mention the Environmental Protection Fund, not at any point, so here, as a minister then and as a colleague of the then Minister and colleagues, and since then, Zmajlovic, it's quite likely that you have arrived at a time to perhaps give a little consideration of the loss shown for 2016 to the Environmental Protection Fund, i.e., did you, as Minister of Finance, then have any knowledge and information that your colleague, Minister Zmajlović, is actually going to go one minus in advance, means spending in advance without any plans and without any indication that you will be able to make peace? So he spent more money on the Environmental Protection Fund than the fund did. And now we have a situation that the fund has shown this loss, we know that it's a loan, that it's been granted credit so that it can be solved, but that the Environmental Protection Fund, in the end of the year, has been vegetating like that, we can say that. Since both the Government and you, whose member and minister of finance, are often able to say that these are actually indicators that are now a positive result and those governments that you were in. So I'm wondering, were you, then, familiar with the activities your colleague was spending in advance on the Environmental Protection Fund?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44131	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44132	Thank you very much, Vice President. I must admit that this surprised me, why you're asking me, so there's a colleague of Zmajlović and last year you discussed it with him and I think he can answer these questions more adequately. I have not entered the individual, just as you have 20 ministers, so so has my colleague Maric, you do not know what each of the ministers is doing. You know certain limits. What are the limits, which here the Croatian Parliament votes certain limits, which are certain procedures and procedures. If there are certain, you consider certain irregularities there is a state auditor or someone else, so in this context contact these institutions. I didn't deal with individuals. But this when you said intro, that it surprised you, so I don't have any problems, with saying that some in my debate when I was talking about Agrokor, that you should not only change one law, but that you should have gone to change the 5 laws. That it should have gone into 5 changes to the law, that it should have gone, stopped trading the shares of HAMFA, that it should have stopped trading the shares of Agrokor, which they did after a month and a half, when the value fell to 30%. That a certain tax reprogramme should be given in that section for farmers. It is no problem for me and to tell the public and sometimes when my colleague Maric makes quality moves and this part of the public and praise to keep the expenditure under control, what he said to his colleague, that these expenditures are not going up. I've never had a problem with saying it publicly and commending no matter who's doing a good job, and I think the situation in Agrokor, no matter how we end up being, uh, our goal is all the same to stabilize business. Whoever comes as the owner, we're absolutely not interested. And we're not gonna deal with it, but it's important that out of 45 billion kuna, over 20 billion come from retail, and we know Agrokor held a third of the market. He held a third of the market. And now take, when one such company holds a third of the market, that VAT is our most important source of income, that tourism is our most important source of income. I just keep saying that we're speaking constructively here, that we're talking about how the company performs that it doesn't hit our budget and that in that context I'm certainly going to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44133	Thank you very much. Next is the Club of Representatives Change Croatia, in which the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to welcome here the current finance minister with his associates, the state's chief auditor with his associates. Dear MPs and MPs, respected citizens who follow on this hot day this soft debate on the report on the achievement of the state budget. Is this because of the influence of the sun and special waves that none of us understand how biochemicals act or unwilling to change the situation in Croatia, something more should be said about it. We see dominating the appology of what is, of course, what has been positively done is done positively, and there is no one who can and will not object. Filling the budget of income is certainly good what is the consequence of a few we heard the reasons, and on the other hand I want to say increased VAT in catering and this increases revenues, and we see that it was not good. It was supposed to come to foreign hotel chains, etc., not one to punish, but the other to give room. But I'm gonna focus on some other side of things. I didn't come here to convince numbers from both reports, nor did the citizens choose me here to read the paper or sell the fog. I find this report not transparent enough and not credible enough. I find the foothold in this in two documents, which are the findings of the State Audit and the report of the Commission on fiscal policy. What are these findings that are valuable here and I want to commend the work and contribution of both of these bodies, meaning State Audit and the Commission for Fiscal Policy? So here is the first, no new users of the state budget are included in the register of budgetary and extra-financial users, despite the 2015 Budget Law for 2015 and 2016. There are a whole series of public companies from HRT, HBOR, HZ Infrastructure, HAC, ARZ, HROT, HERA-E. Furthermore, debt and claim ratios with the CERP have not been cleared, exchange rate differences have not been properly recorded and there is still a whole series of observations found by the State Audit. What is resented is that there is no, beware, a description of the methodology of the calculation of the general government deficit and an explanation of the differences compared to the ESA methodology accepted in the EU. So, then, how can we believe that this is fully consistent and transparent and credible report. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise here, which is mentioned, however, that the expenditure on interest is huge, they are about 11 billion. You remember here I suggested to you in the Parliament of colleagues and colleagues, that it was a cancer wound that was the fastest growing expenditure of the state budget, but no one dared to do it here when you proposed the state budget. The most important thing for you to say is we'll pay interest to the banks or the ones who bought our bonds, and the others we can cut off, it doesn't matter, it's the second, third, fifth row. If that's how you still think you've done some petty work on this bond placement show, but Mr. Minister, that's not enough. You're boasting that 3.5% of state bond sales is fantastic, excellent, so 2,875 is not. Even one BiH, two, three years ago in some shows, was less in debt than Croatia, and they had a negative interest rate on the vault records, a negative contribution, you do not have. So don't convince the Croatian public that you're doing your thing, fantasticly, when we know that you can borrow more cheaply. But what don't you want? So you don't want to make the monetary mechanism co-operate between fiscal and monetary policy so that this country and its public sector can borrow cheaper than all normal EU countries with 0.3. 0.5%, not 2.8, 3.5, etc. So there's no point painting this situation with cheerful colors, I'd like it to be so. What we're going to say is that it's good, but it's dominated by gray and some other colors. That's our reality. Let's not run from it. And to be very specific, Mr. Minister with an associate, have you noticed that your public debt statistics are four months late? Look at the HNB bulletin, the Institute of Statistics, the latest data from the CNB was in February 2017, and there it says that the public debt is 289 billion kuna. And in the meantime, you've placed an foreign bond of approximately $11 billion, and these days there's going to be about 3 billion kuna bonds, so when we add 289 to this thing that didn't go into four months 11 so this 3 is not a public debt of 289 billion kuna, but it's 317 billion kuna. But that's not all, in that methodology you didn't include this you see, and that's the methodology where you didn't include the debt of local companies and self-government. It is, for example, Zagreb Holding and other companies that do so. So here I am at the end of 2015 I have here a report credible with all the data where the debt of these units and their companies should be added and increased by 14 billion kuna. So when you add another 14 to these 317, that's 331 billion kuna. Now I ask you, what are the EU methodologies for, what are the criteria, the rules, and what is the beauty of the situation for? The truth hurts, but the truth releases us because it makes us do things differently. Now, I'm going to quote two, three positions of the Committee on Fiscal Policy where experts, university professors, experts, and listen to what they say. Despite these positive trends, there are positive ones, they say, "Fiscal imbalance remains present. The structural causes of deficit creation have not been solved, and they will grow again." I repeat, they say it will grow again. Next, they say. “A reduction in the budget deficit has been achieved in part of the reduction of public investment.” Something Lalovac said earlier but is not as important as I think it is. So this isn't sustainable. What does that mean in translation? That the state has moved away from capital projects, from major state investments that then generate economic growth. So in translation, expenditure in Croatia is reduced. Why? Because there's no state investment. Well, that's what my grandmother can do to cut expenses like that. But what will thousands of construction workers do, what will our children who are still going abroad do? So here, as far as this is concerned, I'll conclude. If there is no public investment, the state investment that they started in those years means building infrastructure and we saw that Croatia then increased GDP and here it is already said that the only, real, healthy way to recover public finances is to grow GDP. So public investment, capital projects, reduction, it's just not going to happen. It is the third conclusion of this committee, I see that some people do not like it, that such eyebrows are down, the third conclusion of this commission is the following, Croatia has lost any legal control of public debt, gentlemen. This is, I don't know if you have received this information with weight that Croatia has lost any legal control of public debt, this is written by the Commission, so for fiscal policy, it's not politicians, it's not MPs, so these are the people who wrote according to the rules of the profession. What do they say as an argument? What do they say? So they say, 10 years ago, a public friend in Croatia compared to GDP was, you know how much? 38% 10 years ago. And today it's 84.2 or better not to tell you what I've been adding in percentages. So, today, Croatia among 8 countries, means even with 7 when we compare, that is Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, we have the highest public debt compared to GDP. That's information. I'm not saying this because I'm adding fire or being smart or important, I've done it without politics. I came here to talk, to use official data, to speak openly, so who liked it, who didn't like it, and to try to solve it together. I also offer my knowledge and party Change Croatia is not called because we will change meteorology and time but let's change what we see without hostiles, let's say the procedures. And what are the, what would be the conclusions of all this? I'll be back on interest, you see, 11 billion kuna. And you can't pay children what in the fall when the school year starts for some are small amounts, for transportation, you can't give mothers a higher monthly fee to stay longer on maternity leave, you can't get rid of it. Well, look, just by refinanceing these expensive loans and bonds to split by 5 billion we spend overnight solving deficits, or health problems even though it's a bottomless hole, a bottomless bag that nobody knows where it leaks, you understand. So what kind of state is this that no one knows how this year's going to end in health care? You can ask the psychic, he might say better. How to reduce that public debt, in fact, how to reduce those interest rates? So one of the important ones that needs to make that profit, it's called a mission profit is a people's bank. She made you 42 million kunas this year. It'll give some change to the budget. And you know Dr. Maric, you're a doctor of the economy, if the CNB approves of kuna loans to banks, and that's a billion dollars a year she'd earn on that, on interest to banks, a significant amount that then, at the end of the reckoning, can be paid into the state budget. Soon I'll file a precise report on it so that you can see that we have no cooperation between monetary and fiscal policy. Today is not another topic to talk about macroeconomic developments because the topic is the state budget, the achievement, but I can't say this happy news of employment on the way. Well, everyone would wish we didn't have the unemployed. The largest measure is to address unemployment by going abroad and by temporary work, which means seasonal employment that is significant here and methodology means what is said to be, monitoring, statistical monitoring of the number of employees and unemployed as well as here pompous information on export growth. My dear gentlemen, if you knew what you're saying and what you believe. If they knew it was transit through Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina to be counted as Croatian exports, then you wouldn't have talked like that. But I'm glad you're happy about it. But there's no such discussion, look, they're desirable here just, I'm not gonna say good news, so some good news, then we'd have less to do, right? So we demand an up-to-date and transparent insight into public debt. You hire a few people there who are professionals, they must be separated, in fact, that function must be separated from the Ministry of Finance in order to be transparent and credible. I'm looking for legal control of public debt and therefore to professionally strengthen the board or agency, the Public Debt Office. I ask that the ESA methodology, as well as other EU countries, be respected means, statistics, budgets, public debt, etc. I'm ordering you, you're in charge, you're in. Don't convince us that he can't, and that, so boasted the previous ministers, went outside, and fear caught me when they went outside. And when they come, of course, the media is under whose control they are, and then it's a malt no, I'm surprised there's no general folk celebration here in Ban Jelačić Square, about certain duties so large and so large. He no longer owes Croatia for the currency clause, Mr. Minister. You have no right to do that. This isn't my personal account with you. You have no right to increase the euroisation for that part of borrowing in Croatia. What must be owed outside to get rid of the European bond or the dollar bond, but do not be in debt in Croatia in kuna with the currency clause. So you're working against this country. That's enough of that. So you're telling us the truth, no matter how painful she is. And finally, to warn further that the state is dangerously increasing its share of the total external debt. In 2009, it was about 6, 6 and a half billion euros, now about 15 billion euros, in total foreign debt. So, I call on everyone to approach this rationally, there's a lot more to be said, but there's no need. What's good is we'll all say it's good. But what's not good let's not cosmetically or paint in other colors, let's not leave out, let's face it because that's how we solve the problem because this doesn't lead to anything. And I'll end up with that, the fourth year of being in the EU, 01/07 was our final score, only Bulgaria is below us, that's the data. That's true. So everything else is, we can argue, and a hundred times it's said, it's always said that we can do better, that this is a country of great potential, but this is primarily a land of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44135	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Professor, you have cited a number of reasons, but the facts that the review has given, means a number of irregularities or what was happening in this report, which are the relevant facts that should have been in the report and which should have been commented here accordingly and reached here. You mentioned here means from borrowing that you think is much more than usual because we don't have a system, system or institution that monitors borrowing, it reminds us of a banana state. You mentioned the CNB, here's one more time about the CNB I'd ask you a question because I know you're measured there. Tell me, the CNB as head is in the Stability Council of the Financial Republic of Croatia. This person himself admits publicly that 10 billion kunas without cover, Agrokor used i.e. A direct blow to financial and monetary stability and no one has done anything, it is the collapse of the foundation of the Croatian state. How many contributions does this work for the CNB? I don't think I just thought, when you said, a hung mustache, I don't have a mustache, maybe you've thought of others, how much of this dissatisfaction against the interests of the Croatian state, not protecting people or this money that we're subsiding to Agrokor, probably these 3.7 billion subsidies to agriculture went to Agrokor or 2 billion, which Minister Jakovina also directed, how much is the impact of the CNB on this negative picture of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44137	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44138	Kola Bulj, the importance of the CNB and monetary policy in the overall economic policy is enormous. We, in the macroeconomic economy, observe one and the other exclusively together and without their coordination, have no problem solving, no fostering economic growth, no cheap financing, and we have suffered enormous amounts and great damage precisely as in 2008, which were inappropriately high interest rates at which companies, citizens were in debt, and that was why it was one of the key brakes that could not get to Croatia's recovery, it was wrong, so there was no coordination at all. And then it's said because we're not going to do it, because we don't want the interest that banks count on to be reduced, and we're just going to bang the state budget, or we're going to cut the expenditure. Who? From the workers, the students and everyone, so. We'll give up capital investment. That's where we have to squeeze, and no one's asked this side. Therefore, every regulated country and every good macroeconomic policy it will make, it will work on that synchronisation of monetary and fiscal policy, that on the one hand it has at this stage when there was a recession and when it was meant to raise, stimulate the economy to have low interest rates and that the central bank is helpful, not to harm such as this. And I'm only going to add one more piece of news. So do you see these months as a stronger kuna and directly reduces revenues from tourism and exports, and by reducing it? It reduces the basis for taxation and VAT, thus increasing the revenues of the state budget. All of this could be cited for dozens of reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44139	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44140	Dear colleague Lovrinović, despite some of us not being scientists but we have a huge professional and professional experience. You mentioned that and here you are instructed that certain companies are not and debts expressed in the total public debt. I have to say that you're saying this wrong, because all local self-government companies are consolidated in the budgets, so there are already obligations. If they have obligations, then they are consolidated in the budgets and reports. So that's not true. Moreover, it would be much more important to determine where health obligations are recorded. Because when compulsory, i.e. public budget health insurance, it was important to establish where the obligations were recorded and how they are recorded. Because according to current methodology and current monitoring, we can see that they are neither in HZZO nor in the state budget, but they are actually shown beyond what is not good, because then we can only assume in this way from the reports and the consolidation of reports of all hospitals and the complete health system as much as these obligations actually do and how much they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44141	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44142	Well, yeah... The distinguished fellow MPs on the first part of your replica have nothing to answer for, these are the data I quoted from the State Audit findings and the Committee on Fiscal Policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are the facts that stand, so I don't have what, they're not my own. And as for this matter of health data, the losses where it was recorded. Well, your client is in power, and I'd expect you to provide us with that information. I don't have access, I don't have access to that data. But the fact that it leaks to you, that it leaks all the time, and that there's a constant demand for new billions for the health system, so it's a continuation of long-term practice, and no one can live in that hole, or a bag without a bottom shut and stuff. Such a health care can't work. People are concerned about it, doctors aren't stimulated enough, nurses. They're leaving because of it. So there's no politics. There's never been a reform in the health system, let alone a reform. If this problem is to be resolved to stop being a problem for the budget, then health reform must be launched. But I'll agree with what one of you said and a colleague of Lalovac. I do not understand why this health account is in the account of the Croatian National Bank. It's one of your party friends invented, he's out there from these parts where there's very clean air. Well, they either agreed, but that's it. So, there's been a lot of work going on in this country. We have to change it without being angry because here I said it wasn't personal stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44143	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44144	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to tell my colleague Lovrinović that he said during his speech that he should speak the truth and I feel the duty to point out to him that at economic colleges in Croatia students do not know, or do not understand the process of making money, i.e. that all the money there is is a loan. It means that money only comes out as a loan, and that money for interest payments regardless of whether it's zero, five or fifty percent doesn't exist. There's no more money to come back than there is and unfortunately, through the conversation with the students, I see they don't understand it. They don't understand it and repeat the phrases that you need to borrow more cheaply. And as long as you're in charge, you depend on whoever you borrow money from. And depending on whether you obey him or not you have such conditions. But it's always a matter of service, it's always a matter of subordination, because the hand that gives is always above the hand that receives. And as long as our state doesn't have a central bank that serves the interests of it itself and its people, we'll have a servant government, a government managed by a financial elite and a government that won't pass laws in the interests of the citizens. What kind of country depends on whether a banker gives a green or red light and has his own central bank. This is the worst humiliation a country can experience and, unfortunately, our citizens must accept according to this humiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44145	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44146	Here's a distinguished colleague of Pernar's, about how many students, what does he know, that's what we're assessing, so the range is 1-5. As in other professions and other sciences, you have people who know best, you have those who really don't. But one could agree with you, which is that exactly the same if money is created, people are least known, people think that the best 2 things know in life, which is love and what money is. While they know something about love for a child, according to their mate’s pet, they know much less about money. And you rightly pointed out that problem. But this second part you were talking about the Central Bank, that's quite true. This Central Bank has never been in the position of developing a Croatian economy, and here there is a representative who has not spoken of it for many years, not only that, but they have encouraged it, defended it, and they are now doing so. And they say it will be better in Croatia. And worst of all, the citizens believe them, they are always trusted by those who go out with them, because they are clearly better because of it. And we're all on the other side. And worst of all, the worst thing is for those young people who really have to leave, and they don't realize that tomorrow and their children are going to be in that column. Therefore, what I asked for to change the CNB law, to put the CNB in office of development, the Croatian economy, and not to allow banks to exhaust the economy and citizens and to cheat into debt slavery, that is why, it is a key thing, but eventually everyone will come to that knowledge, and it would be better to get there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44147	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivana Lesaandrić-Ninčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44148	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned this famous number of unemployed, and I can't help but comment on that famous never less unemployment. And I think people should know how there's never been any less unemployment. So 3 are facts. One is that people are mass eviction, the other is that people are in season work, and the third is, in my opinion, the most important fact, is that on HZZ, therefore, our bureau, if you're a day or two late, you confirm that you're still unemployed, they're clearing you out of the records neatly. Once I've asked the Bureau employees, so you can check through the OIB if the person, where she's been working and if she's still working, and if you see that she's not in a working relationship, and she's late a day, two, confirm that she's unemployed, where these people belong? To aliens, maybe? But, see, they told me it was just their rules and that they had to confirm that every person who was late, was still unemployed, neatly deleted from the records. No wonder we have, never a better number of unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44149	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44150	So, colleagues Lesandić, here you have only further explained these statistical criteria and how statistics are actually a very specific discipline when it comes to economics and quantitative methods, that you can use it in one way or in the most possible way, enlighten, aggregate, etc. Unfortunately, the truth is something, it's important different, and so we really need to work on telling the data that is accurate, which are clear, and the adjustment at the Employment Services, that someone who's been working for 10 days, or I know, a month on a set, to immediately wipe off, out of unemployment, there are still these criteria, I unfortunately little and forgot them, told me the other day a friend, it doesn't help us anything. So I say we need to get to the truth, because that's the only way we're going to be able to run, put together a macro-economic policy that will have and give positive results, first of all, to address unemployment, to improve the perspective of young people in this country, to reduce debts, and to give 330,000 people with 42 billion. So, that's unbearable, all of these are the problems that are pressing this country, and that's why we're talking about these problems in the right way, not selectively extracting some data, I repeat, those who are good, who are right, I welcome it, but let's not go with someone else who is questionable or not even true, let's not suppress this part of the truth and reality as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44151	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to give a word to the Minister of Finance to the distinguished Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies, gentlemen of the Parliament, two are the reasons for my intervention. First, to sort of look back at the debate so far, almost all clubs with all due respect to the Independent Representatives and HSU Club, I'm going to refer briefly to what we've heard so far. So, I think that I also spoke in introduction and responded to the replicas, very clearly, as we went into the process itself, which were both objective and ini factors that were prevailing in the very planning of the 2016 budget without running away from all these circumstances and factors. But at the same time, if we put too much emphasis on circumstances and consider them happy for public finances, then I'll say that happiness should be provoked if you do. However, I cannot accept for sure the fact that someone is saying that only the sole reason for the stabilisation of public finances is the fact that we had one part of the year of the technical government and the interim parliamentary elections. If we look at it that way, then I can also say that our past very clearly shows that just in pre-election periods it has always been in some way, a trend, an explosion, if you want budget spending, and we have managed to control that budget spending. Even the dominant and chroniclers and experts at the time indicated that the preparedness, the minister, would show me personally from my team at the Ministry of Finance would we be able to respond to all these challenges and I think we've succeeded in all this. As far as these facts are concerned, when we talk about someone boasting, I also said that everything related to economic growth, the biggest merits go to the Croatian economy. It is up to the government and the state to create circumstances and conditions that they can function, but still public finances effectively collect revenue from the budget and control the expenditure side of the budget that is still much of the merit of the Government and the Ministry of Finance and certainly should be very clear in that. I have to refer here to a technical part, but since some of the representatives are too often mentioned, and in today's circumstances it may be extremely important for the general and wider public to mention it. The Republic of Croatia is the fourth anniversary of our membership and before that, and especially since we are a Member State, we have coordinated our individual elements of the state and the functioning of individual institutions with EU legislation and so on with statistics, so I speak very clearly and very responsibly. As Minister of Finance, just to be clear, we're trying to pull parallels with some other comparable, not just ministers, but other leaders of individual constituencies. So we are responsible together with the Government for fiscal policy. The fiscal statistics in the Republic of Croatia are guided by the DZS and the CNB, so we are obliged to provide raw data which they, in accordance with international recognition methodologies, thus also compile and publish ESA 2010. When I am told by the esteemed representative Lovrinović about the delay, the wrong address is partly given that we are doing everything to deliver these basic data in time, but of course it is not up to us when certain data will be published. The Commission for Fiscal Policy, yes, there is a basis for the act proposed by the Government by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the body made by experts, I have a high opinion of them, most of them very long years I know very well and know very much about fiscal policy, but also one fact. So who is responsible for fiscal policy, but you have one body that then further monitors it with the Croatian Parliament, along with the professional and general public. I don't see where in which way something can be not transparent or not recorded as spoken. So everything is in line with these rules and regulations. As far as public debt and interest statistics are concerned, I think that in the Croatian Parliament I have talked countless times about the general public in all my public appearances that my interest is to me and my team, to all of us in the Government one, one of the top..., not to say now number one to provoke another reaction, but one of the things we want to put a great emphasis on. On a daily basis, every instrument that comes in, that we use any bonds, any vault records, if we compare with other countries, I'm not saying that and I'm not boasting that any success, but if we achieve the historical lowest bond issue in terms of yield, if we finance the vault records by 0.45% is also historically the lowest, then these are also the facts to be talked about. But I'm also saying that interest still amounts to 11 billion kuna and that we're still going to do everything to manage to contain what we've seen over the past years, and that's the continuing growth of exactly the great pressure of these interest rates. And just the last observation, when we compare ourselves with other countries, let us not ignore the fact that the European Commission also praised that Croatia made the greatest progress in 2016 or among the greatest progress in terms of reducing public debt, is the Croatian public debt that is higher than Hungarian has one major difference compared to Hungarian. Hungary nationalized the second pillar of the pension system, which we didn't do. You also have several other factors that, when compared to other countries, should also be made very clear and transparent, not ignoring the fact that almost three percentage points have reduced the share of public debt in GDP and for the first time managed to reduce it nominally by 505 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44153	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I'm a little surprised to you that at this time of the unprecedented development of information and telecommunications you justify four months of delay in the elemental information that the bond of 10 billion kuna has been issued, so it takes four months for us to read it in the HNB bulletin. So you're perfectly clear that you can say as a responsible man as well and tell us now that public debt is so much that you're not waiting for the Statistics Office, I guess, we have so much trust with the Ministry of Finance. So much for that. So you don't have to defend what's wrong, but please try if you're four months late and not only a month late and it's unbearable. The other thing, about the amount of interest, it's true that you're talking, but you're not trying hard enough. The historical lowest interest rate is every one you've reached for the first time, and that doesn't mean it's the most favourable. It can be much lower, but the question of whether you want it, whether you can maybe, maybe you don't want it, but whether you can, whether you're being pressured, or if there's so many believers that you don't have room to lower interest rates. And a well-intentioned suggestion for you personally, don't brag about it again and then there'll be big problems. I guess you pulled a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44155	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44156	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So here, of course, in today's time, I'm repeating once again information technology and everything but when you refer to that delay of that data as you call it delay, so of course the general public is going to have another impression of something deliberately done in one way or another. But we need to understand that it's not really easy to sum up the full public debt statistics so that it can be done so easily overnight. So it's necessary to do certain things I defend here people who work on it because they're people who have nothing to do with politics, so they're professional associates in individual bodies that I've mentioned. And if you refer to a bond that I didn't, so I think you also know, in the third month, we issued a bond on the international market to refinance one that reached about 20 days after that. So the effect on public debt and so well you know is actually neutral. Public debt is rising by the deficit level. And that's what's kind of a elemental thing, of course you as a professor know it very well, and I'm not going to give you a lecture, you've been a professor to me, I'm not going to put myself in the opposite position right now, but still for all the MPs and the general public should say very clearly, so the public debt is growing for that level that you have a lack of income compared to the expenditures of that year. And you can make up for it either to sell some of your property, whether you're in charge. On the basis of this, we have planned a budget for this year and everything we are related to the bonds, we have planned and communicated very clearly in the adoption of the budget itself. And that's when I announced that our plan in the first quarter was to go to the international market and issue a bond that would refinance the bond that came in April. And by the way, just a little higher interest if you're going to compare these two instruments on that instrument alone, we're talking about hundreds of millions since the bond issued by 3% was about 3% and we've refinanced that bond of about 6%. So our focus on interest, savings on interest is not only about the principle of debate but also about actions and activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44157	Did you cause any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44158	Mr. Vice President, on the basis of Article 238, I find some information not to be true, so I would like to refer to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44159	You can't do that, I'm sorry, there's so much wrong information in this room, and if every time it were a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't think we'd do anything but that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44160	But then let me say two, three words if you've tolerated so many times.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44161	You can't because there's nothing hurt by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44162	Well, part of it is because I don't think that part of it is true, let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44163	That's your opinion, look, everyone who talks and thinks they're right and I guess what he's saying is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44164	So you judge who exactly speaks, if that's the task of the chairman, I'll accept it but as far as it's known.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44165	No, just the opposite, just the opposite, I can't judge exactly who's talking and who's not talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44166	But then, Mr. Vice President, let me say two, three words and let the public or present representatives... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44167	No, no, but be careful why it doesn't serve, so it doesn't serve to hurt the Rules of Procedure as an instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44168	This way, all right, you can interrupt me, this I'll realize that you don't want me to make arguments because you've realized that I'm always talking about arguments... The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44169	No, in any case, here you have...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44170	Then I'm willing to give up because you don't want me to make arguments in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44171	Look, you've been in the Assembly long enough to know what instruments there are to say your opinion, there are sequences, there are sequences and you can use whatever you want but one you can use and not one that is completely inappropriate. Now we're going to give our word to the honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44172	Thank you. Dear Ministers of Finance, so the big problem is that a state that owns its own central bank, which has the power over money emissions, which has its own currency must be borrowed in the first place. What's the point of borrowing? What is the point of bringing land and people into debt slavery? What's the point of pumping external debt when it's known that these debts can't be paid back? Because what's the trick? What I was explaining is that the interest money doesn't exist, I don't know, and you probably know that, and you know that banks only give the principal loans without the interest money. And then the question is, where will the interest come from? You know where dear ministers will come back from their property, some family will be decommissioned, some state-owned company will be sold, some public welfare will be concentrated. That's how the interest will come back. And this interest system that has been imposed upon us, which sinks the entire Western hemisphere into debt, into slavery, which brings to power the unelected politicians chosen by the people, but the informal structures of power that privatized the process of making money, that system, I fight against it, and you unfortunately serve it. You serve him for the ministry's salary, I fight him for the salary of a representative. But it's sad that the people, unfortunately, can't say too stupid but don't realize that this system is against him and that he'll be his society. And it supports the politicians you're leading him to the abyss, which you're leading him to ruin, which leads him to execution, loss of work, small wages, work without pay, etc., etc. And yet you fabricate for them various desires, and they accept all that and support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44173	Thank you very much. Please welcome the Honorable Finance Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44174	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, it's not one time already, but I'm used to saying so in the Croatian Parliament, although I, by the way, have a parliamentary mandate legitimately from the Croatian people in the past elections, but as a minister, it's obviously some practice to come here and listen to you and a number of other representatives quite difficult and accusative, personal nature and general nature, so that I serve and please these, those and the like. I am the Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I only and exclusively work for the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens and you can think about it whatever you want and whatever you want. I will only ultimately refer to this last part, so all the figures, all the information I share with you since the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public are from official sources, I am not offering any additional figures that are some kind of buildup that anyone can consider, these are all official and publicly verifiable information and data and I always stand together with all my associates available for further clarifications. And just at the end of the day, since it's my duty to remain in charge of this address for the assembly, given the pause I'm going to have to apologize and I know that some of you will certainly notice that I will continue to debate, I will not be in the assembly since I have to take an official trip to Dubrovnik. You know that we have an important person as a guest together with numerous finance ministers and governors in Croatia for the next two days. There will be a colleague of course State Secretary Tufekčić, along with Treasury Officer Ivan Jakir Bajo and Assistant Mayor, but here's the reason, I know that some of you will notice and publicly say so that in some ways this time, there are a lot of doctors, I'm preventing certain things. Because I also heard today about how I was not at some parliamentary debate, this representative is not presently available, and he could also check in the Croatian Parliament statistics that the beginning of this call of the Croatian Parliament, as Minister of Finance for over 100 hours I spent in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44175	Thank you very much. We'll do it now, we'll be a little late, but we'll take a break by 3:00 and we'll continue the debate at 3:00. It's 13.36 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We still have one club of representatives, which is the Club of Independent Lists and HSU, on behalf of which they will speak the respected Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, Mr. State Auditor. So a few generals actually observe the implementation of the budget, i.e. the budget as such, since the budget is the basic document of a government, and of a policy that rules. I think it is necessary to say a few words and about the guidelines that arise from such a single document. In fact, we at the Independent Representatives and HSU Club can say the introduction only words of praise on account of the fact that the budget as such has been carried out in a very high percentage and that the indicators that speak of revenue and expenditure of the budget are such that we can say that the budget is stable and that certain results have been obtained in such a way that the percentages are almost 100% carried out with some exceptions. However, we must remind that this budget, meaning the 2016 budget, which was adopted by the HDZ and MOST government headed by Prime Minister Oreshkovic and which was already about half a year, i.e. at the beginning of the summer or the end of the spring, and the same year we were forced to disband the Parliament and it was this government that was elected, from the legitimately elected government to the Republic of Croatia, that was actually the technical government and almost half of the year, and we had a technical government. So that part of which we would like to say, means about the political part of the weight of that budget, there's nothing to say too much, except that it's technically, accountingly, accountingly, or whatever it is you want, and it's solidly brought to an end as such, and I think it's pretty clear that there's not some important political messages out there that actually saddens us the most. So, since 2015, we have not yet had any results since the end of 2015, in fact, of the government's work of the original MOST and HDZ, and now at this point, the government of Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ, respectively. Why am I saying that? So, the technical budget has met all the preconditions, the revenues have been achieved, the expenditure has been achieved but no significant steps are seen. You can't see first of all the steps in the part relating to the everyday life of citizens, which means that the quality of employment in the Republic of Croatia is bad, and we can see from recent ideas about how we will hire people in Croatia in the seasonal business in tourism and hospitality, and how we will educate these people primarily for these jobs, and then place them in those places where they should work, and they will unfortunately work in a branch that doesn't know any conditions for any prosperity. This is some kind of targeted policy of this government now because on several occasions tourism and our budget structure are mentioned here and we rely on our revenue budget, which is essentially based on tourism in the first part and in the second part on trade. And with this we are very proud here because tax revenues are growing, meaning VAT revenues, which is all right, but we as a small country should never afford a situation which will give us these two activities, meaning tourism and trade, retail trade, first of all, will be the basis for, or will be a key foothold for the future and development of the economy of this country. If that's the case, we don't write well. Why aren't we writing well? As we can see, Agrokor as one of the largest, or largest company in the Republic of Croatia, but not only is it the largest in this area as agricultural and productive, it is the largest definitely as the strongest trading chain in the Republic of Croatia, meaning by kneeling down to one of these companies, we are losing our ability to generate quality income from the tax on the long term, i.e. there is the possibility of a large hole in the budget. Em, which could be a possibility for people to lose their jobs, em, on the other hand, which in that sense and consumption, or the number of places where sales are carried out, will be significantly reduced if that happens. In tourism that we are also mainly oriented at, the same big incident of any kind, unfortunately, our tourism could lead to a major problem. So we as a state can't and we can't just talk about it and just base ourselves on it. Why does all this have to do with the budget? It has to do with the budget because it is a matter of policy making what will be apostrophe and strategically planned in the budget as something that will give Croatia a chance to increase its revenues, including, of course, tax revenues and the revenues of its citizens, to give it the opportunity for prosperity. It certainly won't be just a chance for our people and foreign investors to invest in retail and wholesale chains and invest in tourism. We must create conditions for investments in Croatia that will require the knowledge of Croatian citizens. And when you see a budget that is excellently designed, but at the level of daily needs and only daily needs that are being met, and it is not designed in a way that gives a new chance and opens up opportunities then, regardless of how well it is done, it has actually not achieved its basic task, and the basic task is the budget, and, above all, the political and then the financial document to enable its citizens to have quality of life and prosperity. So if we were to be in a position to create a budget in this situation where the finances are now, and they're stable. So, I'm not talking about those situations where finance is unstable and the financial crisis is at its peak as it was in 2009, 2010, 2011, where you mainly focused on saving and reducing expenditure, but when you have the opportunity in the budget to create the conditions to focus precisely on those positions of the budget and those policies and those programmes that will give Croatia a chance to reverse this situation that we are a commercial country, where we are a tourist country and where in fact only and exclusively of the VAT that revolves there with the import economy. So it's the famous idea that we'll only live on services, just from trade, only from sales in tourism, not from production, not from knowledge, then you see that we're actually in a big problem. And on the day that we decide to raise in our budget, let's say investing in education, in science, when we are more significant for innovation in this country, when we are through the budget more significantly committed to some activities that still exist in Croatia as such, no one has come with the intention to invest here. Why? Because they won't have labour here and there's no labour force and there's no people who can do that kind of work we're spinning around in a circle, people are leaving us. Because people who want to have a chance to realize whether as scientists, if as some experts leave, because here they simply don't have a chance to finish colleges and work as waiters. In that sense, I want to talk about the budget and the implementation of the budget. Otherwise the budget as such we had so much, we spent so much, something we were thriftful, which is very commendable, so we reduced the expenditure, so we reduced the deficit and all these are relatively good messages. However, it came in 2017, we have a new budget. And that new budget doesn't make a big difference either, because I think it would be important for us to make a difference if this government decided to buy instead of combat planes to invest in knowledge. It would be a message, and it would be a chance for me in the coming years, whether it would be, it certainly won't be next, there wouldn't be another one or maybe the next, but maybe in five or ten years. But surely our budget would look different and the revenues of that budget would look different. Namely, much, much more quality. So besides the fact that the budget is as stable as it is and what the minister says and boasted about it and probably with the full right to manage the treasure quality, I think we have reason to be very concerned. We have reason to be concerned that we have huge debts in health care regardless of whether you treat health care through HZZO or through the budget separately or together. The fact is that health losses are huge and if he were here or there, financial experts say that it would be better if he were in the Treasury because for the control to be better, she would agree, maybe I'm not an expert in that part. But the fact that we've known and stood for two years now, we know that there are huge debts but there are no proposals or programs, no interventions in fact for two, but there are no more than two years. Eight billion is huge money. Also, I think we think that in our club we should urgently take medical care of certain steps so that these losses are resolved. Whether it will be in the next budget because I don't already know which time it will do it, it won't be the first time, but obviously it will have to be done again. And it's also obvious that this expenditure that we're going to make according to health care is going to be for what I don't know, actually thrown out of the window, if we don't have an adequate plan to keep this system going and we're going to get down to what we have, into existing incomes, or we're going to say that we need a lot more money for health care that's going to pay the most likely citizens. So someone finally has to make it clear how it's going to work, otherwise we're really going to get into a situation where that whole system is being blocked and that it's not going to be able to deliver the services it's in charge of. Here, I was actually trying to say that we are not satisfied not with the execution as such, but we are not satisfied with how the budget is simply spent on very many things the state is in charge of, but spent, not in a way targeted, that in 5, 10 years or not, in the long run that same budget would benefit all of us and that it would look like that way that we could boast that we live in a decent, orderly country where they live satisfied citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44178	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first person to represent Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44179	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Turina-Đuric, here, would only look back, since I was a member of the government, so in that term when this budget was being adopted. The budget was a correct political document between the then Most and HDZ coalition, and it only had a technical prefix in its final phase. I do not believe that whatever would have changed more significantly than if that coalition had continued, it would have been as correct, as it had been done, therefore, determined throughout that time. And I would say that more than a successful budget has done its part, because we have less deficit, many items are where they are, a lot of savings are made on various items and it's quite correct. As far as you've mentioned on several occasions tourism, I think tourism is one activity that... covers a lot of activities, therefore, in the Croatian economy, investments themselves draw construction in the provision of services, agriculture, food production, drinks, if you want energy, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we must view tourism as one horizontal activity and it is not bad in itself. The truth is that we need to work on that, that tourism takes as long as possible over the year, but that's why there are action plans, I hope that the ministry and the government will work on it. I would also like to have 10 and 15 billion euros in tourism revenues, while the share of tourism in GDP is 5%. Unfortunately, it won't happen at some time soon, but that's why structural reforms are needed, I think the government will have the strength and vision to bring them, and we will surely support them for some future time, and there is certainly a period before us where we will all have to put our hands on the table together, as we say, heads all together and find answers to those challenges together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44180	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44181	Comrade Kliman, you said that this budget in 2016 was correct. You know, it's not a budget job, I mean, our job to be just correct in the situation that we are in, and when we have these indicators that we have, it means that our young people are leaving, that we don't start a reform of education that people don't have our skills and knowledge for certain jobs, so the budget is even, I would say, rudely, we need a correct budget. We must have a budget that has a component of a certain vision, which we want, as we want Croatia to look 10, 5, 15 years from now. Do we want these correct budgets, for a further 10 years, watching as our young people who finish colleges, which are not necessary for the market in Croatia, unfortunately, because otherwise we would all be employed, because these salaries, in these jobs, are low, to work, to guide and push them, here are the last weeks we listen to all the time, we point out, we push them to work as waiters and janitors. Such a budget, we, I'm talking about the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU, we don't want to, or, without being subject to discussion, that it's correct, that we spent it to do it. We got out of the crisis, we got out of recession, we got a stable budget, and it was time, not to talk about it today, it was about a year and a half ago to talk about it and let's say let's put some of our projects, some of our visions that we want. And to talk today about this execution, not in a way that is correct, but that, look, we lose years, the result of the execution, that is, of this whole situation, is the result of the work of Vada, the government's kukuriku of 4 years. Neither the result nor Oreshkovic's government, nor the one who has been in power for half a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44182	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the next replica, and that's the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44183	My colleague, you were talking about the budget where the debt was cut, where the expenditure party was correct, so you were talking about something that was done. You say that it is difficult just to observe changes, changes must be viewed as certain things that happen or in education, health care, and they are obvious. However, who could have hoped that the Croatian state, here there is no minister, this year we will have to pay a billion and a half kuna here we are now talking about the future of 2015 of a contract for wind subsidies to foreign investors. It's a huge amount of money that must be invested in both health care and education and agriculture. Who could have hoped this would happen with Agrokora? In 2014, Mercator was purchased, reinvestment is known how it was. So here's a bigger problem... that the system left behind like that. Council of the Government of 2015 on the concession of the Cetina River source for water filling, duration 37 seconds, concession of 6 thousand kuna. So a little better household where the grandmother and did it herself when she watered a little... her wages water, six thousand kuna concessions. So, we have wealth, we have resources and potentials that we don't use. It is visible through concessions, only concessions on beaches and maritime goods change borders. The problem is that the structure doesn't do its job, it's networked, and we don't draw money into the budget and direct it. We need him, but we don't have him. And what we have given to strangers of all potentials, resources and telecommunications. I don't know now we're afraid of the optical grid. We'll build us or the Germans. How do you... The Germans? I mean, we have these potentials, but we need to use it, and I'm sure it'll be a better budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44184	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Turine-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44185	Look at the policies above all the economics I would say were very, very many failures back 25 years. If they started to count here, they'd probably be five days, and we could all talk about it, and we could list all these huge failures that were made. However, I would disagree that one of the biggest failures is a billion and a half kuna that is our obligation to subsidise renewable energy sources. It could have been colleague Bulj, unfortunately and much more so that at a certain point it did not care and it was not said that the amount of investment in renewable energy sources that we had committed to subsidising, could have been far, far greater and negotiated long before what you were aiming at, or who you were aiming to negotiate. So I don't think that's any of the greatest damage we've ever done, because we've still got some benefits, or we'll have them if we have nothing else to do with protecting the environment related to renewable energy sources. But I agree with you, so in this country until we start thinking in a way that people are our biggest capital and our biggest resource and that the only investment in people's way out of the way I would say one bad economic climate in the Republic and a lack of quality investors, is not just because we're troms, slow in administration and administration like, I've heard that there's a lot more and in some other much more developed countries where procedures and bureaucracy are just as complicated. We simply do not have enough entrepreneurial spirit, and there are no people who are educated and educated for jobs that are expected to be highly profitable jobs of the 21st century. That's our biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44186	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished representatives of the audit led by the assistants. I would only briefly say as a man looking, looking at the execution of this budget that the fact that it was sent was this budget message that we came out of the recession, the fact is that at the time that everyone is calling who previously ruled that this was at that point a political turbulence year, but the fact that it has financially stabilised the year and it is relevant from this report. However, this report has many misunderstandings that later surfaced and are not visible. This is where Croatia should build the most, it is on its wealth the potential of the greatest resources that was mentioned just before are people, a man to be on the ground, a man educated, a man able to use everything in nature that God has given him and nature. However, the fact that policies are not so targeted so here I mentioned here five times I did not get an answer, I also asked the Ministry to make sure that the money that went to the most important branch, which is precisely in last year 3.7 billion kunas that went to agriculture, whether they ended up in a farmer or ended up in a concert that had destabilised Croatia, not at this point but was the result of policies that lasted for years and that was reinvested by buying Mercator was the end of the story that was clear to all of us, so there is no deception. This depends on suppliers of two thirds of the economy i.e. In particular, the whole of agriculture is a taste of this concert and the fact that this monopoly that the system has been built is supported by the CNB, the Ministry of Finance through the Stability Council. The audit warned in its reports a number. I've been in Parliament for a year and a half, but I've been through a number of reports... properly done work that basically remains a dead letter on paper. The fact that through all these and the CNB and the ministry has allowed one system to capture the entire agricultural and economic climate at one point when this happened, I'm sorry... Minister, I'm sorry that what was excluded at the crucial moment when this problem was to be solved safely would have been resolved sooner and easier to resolve and resolved by the Minister of Key Finance. It's the same to you that the general is in the middle of a war I won't be in the middle of a battle except if there's someone I know there, so I'll be off the hook, but after the war I'll continue to be a general. Therefore, here is a serious problem, it is Agrokor, a concert that is through the CNB and the Stability Council, where representatives and the Ministry of Finance and the CNB and the HANFA are why I have raised a criminal application for 10 billion kunas without cover. It's a huge blow to the state budget, not to the budget just to the monetary policy, it's unimaginable somewhere to happen, it's huge money, it's one fact. And secondly, I think that this budget could be much bigger in execution and I hope that it will be resolved in the future. Here the other day, it was seen there that the banking sector, through fees and certain fees that there are hundreds of 4.5 billion kunas from funds and money, are mostly foreign banks making money through small fees, that is, 1.5% of GDP, 1.5% of GDP for 1.5% of GDP knows how much investment to have. Therefore, it should also be directed that the part that is very important and that banks, imagine in 10 years half of the budget of one year, essentially the banks sucked out what was not invested in Croatia, but was invested outside and now our people who should be working in Croatia to invest in Croatia are going out because the banks sucked out that money, 4.5 billion because it is neither Swiss, nor interest, nor it is on account. So we have a number of possibilities and mechanisms that through the Ministry of Finance, what happened in 2016 is much better. Because the fact is that in 2016, where the debt was reduced, where it didn't all bloom, but the fact is that even such a government declared by the worst government at the stage of instability worked better than it did more than anything before. It's visible by the results. So she was declared the most incompetent government. And there were political problems, there was, okay. So, instability if it's confused, it's not the same cause that changes are going to happen. And instability is political if it is bad, if it is wrong, if it is not, if natural resources are not protected, if education is not the same for everyone, if in Zagreb we have free textbooks and the Constitution says, for a primary schooler, and the Constitution says that all children are equal, they have the same rights and in undeveloped areas children do not have, so children do not have free textbooks and free transportation then what we are talking about. That's why we have two-thirds of Croatia's poor, i.e. abandoned, demographic. We at this point two-thirds literally have empty ones. We have something in Zagreb because the conditions of life, infrastructure and investment are created and this remains empty. Slavonia is an empty agricultural land. For what? Because these incentives that are in the budget, you should check it out and you in the Ministry of Finance, of course do not expect it from Minister Maric because he will exclude himself at that time, he is the Minister of Exclusion and not for Finance at these crucial moments. Therefore, I expect you to focus that money on the OPGs, on small ones, to the alleged fields, not only Slavonic but also down and Imotska, and Sinjska and Vrgoračka, our rivers pass through the srid fields, incredibly. Concessions, concessions reduction, arguments I got that didn't come, one part of the funds wasn't paid. But the fact is that this leaks money through our fingers, that the mayor determines who he wants, whoever he wants to open the company, that's what happened to Split-Dalmatia County, nothing will change if we don't change things. It's a fact, it's relevant and it hasn't been that long ago. It is enough to be friends with the mayor, to open a company without a kuna on the account and to get a concession on the Golden War, Makarska, Split. That's why now the coalition in Split, because of concessions, is not what they like about HGS and HDZ, no, concessions. No, I mean, we have resources and potential and huge money, that's where we can draw, and that's why the young leave because it needs to be politically decent to get a concession, it has to be a friend with the mayor or someone here from the Parliament and it has to be with some politician before. And he's nice enough to open a company with no swear, no investment, no nothing. And the only thing that has to make the investment is from Zrč to Dubrovnik. So that's a lot of money. Only on that one, it leaks through our thrones. Energy, I won't even mention energy. Energy is a special story. What the lady said just before, energy 5, 6.5 billion kuna in 3 years, we have to pay a grant to rebuild by 2020. For this money, every house could have, every household, every building, business facility could have a solar mini power plant, what we give to foreign investors in 3 years on our natural resources that HEP explored, the winds of roses that former officials founded designs, HEPs, design firms to make and sell the project to foreigners. That's a fact. And the quotas, as quotas are allocated and that's a special story, the quotas of renewable energy sources. It opens at midnight in the middle of the night for the new year. The man who built a mini power plant on his economic facility can't break in and he's 10 years old waiting. But that's why wind power stations where foreigners, where money goes to other countries, even if I don't know where, because foreign owners, at least, invest here, means huge money that would have been paid into the budget and then the young would have stayed, then the fields would have been irrigated, they'd be schools, they'd be free textbooks, they'd be from our fields, food, schools, kindergartens, and then they'd have a full country, they wouldn't be moving out. It's no longer a question of knowledge or ignorance, but it's a question of targeting people's emigration because they don't invest in infrastructure because a young man can't live where there's no health care, where there's no kindergarten, where there's no school, where there's no free textbooks, and there's no job here. Therefore, we have the resource, we have the potential, I will always mention, I am going from Zagreb to Dalmatia, according to the Cetina region, it is unfortunate to see that there are no more cattle, sheep herds, goats, no more. And that would cause political, tourism, tourism wouldn't be, then it would be even more income through tourism, we would be selling our products, and that the former minister knows that ours, that we give more import products in markets, in restaurants than ours. That's one thing. Secondly, more, it's a few things, it's a short time, but the fact is that we have resources and potentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44188	No, your time is up. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44189	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Bulj, so I would just look back on this part that you mentioned to agriculture, are basically the support in agriculture that is necessary for the OPGs to survive, to work, to develop production, but the OPGs cannot survive without larger systems such as Agrokor because I think it is the size that is inappropriate for our area, but there are agricultural companies that also credit production, which are also bought from small producers, which are producers of production and purchases and without them it is simply impossible to operate in agriculture in the Republic. Therefore, the OPGs must rely on such systems, but we must not allow such systems to exploit the OPGs as it was Agrokor's radio that dictated both the price and the grain and the price and the work and that introduced deadlines for payment of 180 days and more and then blamed the accounts, so the accounts are rewritten and thus extended and thus the agriculture in the Republic of Croatia was destroyed. Therefore, we need both great and small to develop synergy, but I think there must be an emphasis on whether agriculture is a strategic branch or we don't need it. Given the relationship to the village that has become empty now, 100,000 OPGs are gone, at least 50 will disappear soon, because people have seen that without the support of the state, although the state provides support for production per unit of surface but without real support from the state there is no agriculture either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44190	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44191	Yes, I would agree that without subsidies to the OPGs, there is no progress but the fact is, we can list the EU funds that were received for the OPGs 2 billion that went instead of the OPGs went to tycoons, it went to the largest one in fact to stifle the system and it was intended and it was a fact, it was also known last year. 2016 says 3.7 billion subsidies in agriculture. But the fact is that from 2010 to 2015 5 billion kuna was invested in dairy production, and with 64 thousand dairy producers we fell to 4000 and 600 now we wonder and dropped production, we had 70% needed for Croatia, and now we came under 30, 40, now it's falling, whether it's more and more emigrating. So, we're here now talking about where those money went. You know where they went? Agrokor concert. Is it, it must be a result, but it can't be reduced both production and milk and dairy production and the subsidy should certainly be directed because of it, I told my colleagues from the audit who is doing their job, from the ministry to check well where this money goes. This money has to go to small OPGs, I agree it's not a good monopoly, but it's supposed to be an organization, it can't be a man or an individual, it can't be a better one, but one man with a whole system can't rule. With the complete system that he allowed, and I'm sorry here that he wasn't the minister once more he would have asked him if he knew if out of these 3.7 billion went to the Agrokor concert, the incentive funds or went to the small OPGs, but most likely he would have made an exception again, so it would be pointless to ask as it did all morning, so once again here's the audit, I'm asking him to make sure that this money goes where it should go or goes to the big manufacturers and I don't know who it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44192	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44193	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I would have warned you this well-meaningly. Whatever topic we're talking about, now that the state budget's been implemented, you keep mentioning the Law on concessions, the Gold War, how it's only possible to get a concession if you're friends with the mayor and stuff. We all know very well that there have been failures, that people have been punished, that the decision has been annulled, and that there will still be sanctions and various problems related to it. There are certain concessions in the Republic of Croatia and mistakes have been made, but you, as a parliamentary representative, who repeats it over and over again, are not already in favor of those who favor you because in every debate, you need to know. In such a way as to award a concession, who grants it, who appoints a concession commission, according to which the concession and other concessions are under the law when speaking to the maritime well-assigned. So, in this case too, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports has been violated, and I believe not only you, but all of us who come from the coastal area with impatience expect one such law. So here I'm really asking you not to talk or manipulate the public in the future, because also, people know and remember our citizens, the Law on concessions, when it was in the first reading in this assembly, when the government referred it to the parliamentary procedure in the first reading, all of your colleagues, your ministers, raised their hands, 117 votes were for that concession law, whether it came from HDZ, SDP, and even from the Most and when it came to second reading, then suddenly came to an ex-post mind and we see how many failures there were, there was almost no article that changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44194	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44195	I see you've come from the coast and it's an honor to raise your hand for the concession law in another reading. Don't deceive and manipulate the public, I have to use the same language, you're ladies, I know you've done it under duress, I know it's hard for you to explain it to your Guides, I know it's convenient, and that you're guessing along with the mayor, and that's a fact. You didn't support any amendments, first reading, only the first reading could give me an amendment, and we gave the amendments. And who first warned about the Golden War? You know who? You follow? I'm not boring, I'm going to talk out of my mind, because the people gave me that trust. When the people have not given their trust, there will be no more. It's a crime, it's a robbery of Croatian wealth given to your similars in a criminal way throughout the beach, throughout the beach. Well FIMI Media is a mother, grace, God's mercy what the port administrations of the county, what concessions on marines are good. Article 21 The Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports may be excluded by the mayor on a proposal, the assembly will make a decision on the mayor's proposal and at the request of local self-government. You know it very well, I know it by heart and you'll be underestimating, you know you're from the coast, we're the Vlaji, so you know more about the sea. We're less swimming, aren't we? But you can't get away with it! You've raised your hand for a worse law than crime and privatisation. It's the concession law, you gave the whole of Dalmatia a chance to go under concession, but they won't, because we won't let, of course they won't. It's less important to you, Miro Bulj. And you manipulate the first reading. And even on HTV, you indoctrinate journalists. Well, it's not Plenkovic's HTV, it's National Television, and it's gonna come into people's hands. These are, behold, the Law on the good of the sea, and they have not set the limits for the good of the sea. It's the county, right where your same political option is in power. But you've raised your hand to that law. It can be raised after another reading, you did not support the amendment. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] You manipulate the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44196	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished representative Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44197	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Yurichev, half of what I was about to say I took away. I'd just like to see my colleague Bulj a little bit, a little bit you grab the concessions and keep comparing the Golden War with Zrt. I don't know why you're doing this. I'm coming from Pag, from Novalja. I'll just tell you one thing. The concession competition for Zrce is one of the most transparent competitions and 95% of the people working on that beach are domestic people. I don't know why I'm here all the time, and when we discussed the concession, I didn't want to replicate it for you, but there's no need to keep throwing it away. We can talk about the Golden War. Here's what my colleague Jurichev said about it, but let's not hit on the Zrce. I'm from downstairs, there are young people down there. 95% of young people work on that beach, our local people on Zrce beach, 95%. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44198	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44199	Well, well, the people showed it right on Wretch because he supported his colleague, Dabo, who was in favour of the referendum. But look, there's no matter what Zrce beach, but the fact of the example is that in largely we don't have a maritime good limit, that local self-government can develop during the tour of these. ... I've been told by the MPs that this is a good sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While some are getting used, they're concreteizing. In Makarska, you have to check it out, so you'll see. So, concreteizes the mouth of the river, say Zrnovnica now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But the fact is that the Golden War is just the top. So what in Split will be a coalition now by the Holy Spirit after all? In the spirit of the world, it's not about the concessions there's going to be a beach. Of course! So let's be realistic! But the fact is that the Law on concessions, and the maritime well-being and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, gives the mayor an opportunity to bring the mayor to local self-government. But that's not the best solution either. But it's better than being a concession, being a beach robbery of that one. The same thing will happen to the sources. I said a little while ago. For 37 seconds, the discussion of the government, 37 seconds and 6,000 kuna was a monthly fee. So few grandmothers who have six... Spend your monthly water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44200	Thank you. I've allowed this debate that, most of the time, had nothing to do with our subject that we're discussing. However, I ask you in the future to stick to the subject. The subject is neither concessions, we have voted on this before, etc. The theme is neither the sources of different rivers nor the topics are not wind power plants. It's not all about the subject. The theme is what we're talking about, so please let us all stick to it in replicas and answers, etc. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44201	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office has injured the Rules of Procedure precisely on concessions you were not at the hearing of paragraph 238 this morning. Just this morning at the hearing, I asked why the deputy minister was here, which is why concessions are less income than the previous year in the report. It's about the concessions in this report. I'm sorry you didn't participate, you weren't in the assembly, you weren't following the debate of the Parliament. Next time, see if there's a concession in the budget. And the auditor can confirm it, and the deputy minister can do it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44202	Comrade Bulj, I have not challenged the subject at all. But the details are, the details are, so let's concentrate on what we're talking about. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44203	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So from the presentation of the Minister himself, and to encourage what my colleague Kliman said in his replica that the budget is one political document where everything is actually mirrored, the budget that was so stabilised is certainly showing the data that we have been listening to during the day collected from incomes that have been structured from tax revenues, fees, administrative fees, excise fees, concessions, sale of assets, contributions, interest, penalties, administrative measures, and the last few years and well-prepared programmes for withdrawing funds from the EU. When you look at the little structure of this budget for 2016, 116.8 billion... 19% of these incomes are tax-related and 19% are all other incomes, or 23 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would particularly like to emphasise is a part of the parliamentary deputies touched on that, and I think the minister also spoke about it, and it is about the usefulness of EU funds. Some also spoke about the fact that part of these funds that can be obtained from the European Funds should actually be used through EU funds on the spending side. So, with the RDF funds, regional development, the agricultural guarantee fund, the cohesion fund or the European Agricultural Fund, for rural development, where the circus of some 4, in fact, is 3.9 billion kuna, in fact, it may also need to be encouraged to the European Social Fund, or the Progress Fund, where fewer funds have been withdrawn than planned. It actually says how important the stability of the government is and how important the continuity is to make use of these funds in the best possible way, and thus to disburse one part of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Not repeating everything that colleagues have talked about today, and there have been a lot of good proposals and constructive discussions on both sides of the spending side of these 120 billion kunas, as well as when looking at the structure, it is important to highlight one element that stuck to my eye, and that is 37 and 38% of the expenditure on household fees. The minister spoke and said in particular that no funds were touched, i.e. pension expenses, which we particularly welcomed, but I want to talk here about some things that are related to social benefits. Social benefits that are almost 3.6 billion kuna. So in one part of this budget, which came before parliamentary representatives, it's actually about the fees that are related to the guaranteed minimum fee, to the additional birth certificate, to the equipment for newborn children, then to the personal disability, to the allowance, to the assistance and care, but it's forgotten a few 10-story, the fee to be counted here, as compensation for the users of accommodation by means of food, to employment, help in the house, the accommodation of adults in our social homes. All this actually comes from the state budget, almost 70 different fees. In my opinion, and what I personally experienced, it is impossible for us to have 50,000 people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, which is almost 14% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that's possible. Twenty-four thousand personal invalids, 102 thousand guaranteed minimum fees, for heating costs of 43,000, dwellings of 26 thousand, extras for 73,000. That's what it's all about, and I've brought out those biggest groups, that's why the state should have one united record, often in the past debates, and even now, as former finance minister, because we've had JMBG, but when we've already brought this OIB, it should actually be that security number, which they have out there, where in fact, every citizen might know what, how and at what point it gets, that there should be no abuse. I am convinced that through these fees, which I have listed here today and groups of people, namely, the number of nearly 800,000 people, there is a large number of abuses, a circus of 1 or 1.5 billion kuna. I think it's also the Ministry of Finance, and I know that they know about such data, but if they had to take care of such things, surely, in any way, if there wasn't such abuses, and the expenditure side of the budget would actually save almost 1 or 1.5 billion kuna. Of course, in order not to be misunderstood, as regards social care, that is what the minister said today, help should come to those most needy, those who really deserve help, not that everyone gets help in any way only because of certain gaps in the law, where we have allowed a large number of citizens, a certain abuse. I am also sure that this welfare system must provide a sufficient level for those most needed and provide equal opportunities. In short, in order to avoid debt, I will look back on this part of the State Audit find based on these legal powers, the State Review gave a conditional opinion, we spoke several days and today, and the respected Chief Auditor Kresic actually said what it was about. Through the findings and recommendations of this State Audit, 15 recommendations have been made, at least that's what it says. Orders and recommendations on the execution procedure, there were 9 and those that were not actually followed, also 9. But when it is looked at, according to those recommendations, which are not followed, certain deadlines will be seen, whether due to exchange rates, or because of the pretext of time. I am convinced no matter how complex the state budget and how many people are, so departments and sectors are working on removing these things, even though the budget, especially the state budget, is one dynamic, one dynamic thing, where it is impossible at all times to remove any thing that the State Audit rightly warns about. Hoping that this actually helped you, perhaps with the 2017 budget, but certain data that you could use when thinking about the 2017 budget. Here's my thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44204	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babic, here you have said that here is a great opportunity for both Croatian citizens and institutions, therefore, to improve, withdraw funds from EU funds, given that we have received large envelopes on the tables. However, here are the meetings of the government's professional bodies last year, and this is the 2016 budget, and we have warned on many occasions that the conditions left by the previous government of the SDP, so the conditions that the Croatian citizens had to meet for the funds to be withdrawn from the funds to be so rigorous that we were ultimately enemies to ourselves. So we simply could not meet all the formal requirements that the ministries had prescribed so that it was not possible to withdraw the funds from the EU budget to which we were counting. So one thing is to learn from the past something, which is that we definitely have to fire these conditions so that as many of our citizens as possible can access these funds by our entrepreneurs. I remember my colleague Tolusic often said that it was almost impossible to get out of his envelope because what we prescribed ourselves was simply impossible to meet. I also know from my portfolio, we first cut a lot of funding in 2015 behind the construction of a tourist infrastructure from 25 to 10 million kuna, without saying the scale was so high that it could not meet the conditions for these funds to be withdrawn from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44206	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44207	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Kleman. When withdrawing funds from the eu funds, I highlighted certain things that can be done, I specifically stressed the European Social Fund or the Fund... where certain funds could be made or withdrawn where we would not own use these funds for certain things in projects particularly related to social benefits and social programmes, which I thought most of all. However, when you were talking about a stable government, you can now imagine that there have been re-elections and that we had to have them at the end of the year at the end of the year, which would mean the budget of the Republic of Croatia and all of us and our economy. Thus, a stable government also means a stable rating, a stable rating not only for the government of the Republic of Croatia but also for those entities that are on the international market, especially in the case of debt or reduced interest. That's what I was talking about. That was my accent. I know you understand me, but you warned me of one thing that we did to ourselves or we were our own brakes. But that's why we're here to make things right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44208	Thank you. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am, the chief treasurer with the associate. Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will discuss my report on the implementation of the budget in front of this numerous auditorium in a slightly different way than what happens all morning in this assembly because I don't think many people understand that the budget is the most important lever that one government is running politics. And I also think that many colleagues here don't realize that throughout the year we are basically creating a budget, whether it's income or whether it's expenditure side. Every law we pass no one addresses me for one very important thing in those materials that we get, and that's an assessment of the fiscal impact that short-term so long-term. However, we are all aware of the criticism, all of us are ready to attack, but we must be aware that we have indirectly given to those who carry out the budget that some things can be created and done so. I think today that about this implementation of the budget each of the MPs who discussed various laws during the year could, given that the budget was made as it was practically ripped out which effect of that law has something changed, whether some fees have been increased, given some reduced, whether things were more rational or not being used rationally, and that is that. But what is very important and what only one colleague has given to indicate, which is that this report on the implementation of the 2016 budget is clearly showing us how the environment can at some point pull us back as it pushed us down at some point. In 2009, we can fight politically any way we want, but Croatia is as small as it is with such a closed economy the reaction was as it is. In the same way, 2016 is primarily due to the environment and the solid fiscal policy that led above all to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the result is what it is when you look at the charge of the budget exactly because of certain macroeconomic indicators, nothing happened by accident. And so is the spending side, so they're the result of something. And that's where I'd end my part of the budget debate. For the third year, however, I have been trying to reach a budget, and in the course of the report on the implementation of my colleague's budget, to encourage me to discuss more about something that costs 37.38 billion budget money. So somehow beneath the carpet, under the light stage passes each year the adoption of financial reports, and also reports of out-of- budget users being carried out. Look, we had a very bile debate here three years ago between one part of our colleagues on the other side of the assembly and on the other side about the separation of HZO from the Treasury. So when a state treasure is formed, it's a project of all governments before, you can't say it's one project and it's just when things got up and I'm going out. And what did we get? We received one whaling that half of the health system received payment from the state budget and half of the HZZO, but then it was said that if we singled out HZZO from the Treasury and if HDZ gets all the funds to manage that Croatian health care will settle all debts, etc. On this side of the assembly it was said that it was not so and that the place where the money was found simply did not decide because money was spent by someone else. And when we talk about this, and that's what the State Audit Office mentioned in its report, that's what the Bureau of Fiscal Policy mentioned. So we have a real health problem that costs so much and so much and that we have a mixture. We have hospitals that run their business books the way they run them and we have financial records in the state budget and in HZZ the way it's recorded and we have some kind of conflict all the time, who, how long? At least we had those famous... and these were outstanding claims, which were at some amount, and when they went beyond that amount, then the deficit increased so much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, today to set aside colleagues from the Ministry of Finance to anyone here in the assembly of the debt of Croatian health at this point in time, I'm not talking about credit obligations, no one could talk to you. And colleagues and colleagues, we here have a report, a financial report from HZZO that tells us about the consumption of 23 billion kuna. And that's where the positive results are displayed neatly. Because they're doing their report based on the cash principle. And they have a debt at this point of 3, 3.5, 4 billion, they won't say at all how much but definitely a debt exists. And most importantly, that debt will increase. Because we're not capable of political bickering to admit that this kind of health care system has cost us as much as it has cost us. And it's over, it's just like that. The same story as we need to set aside so many and so many under existing laws for pensions. But, I say, no one has debated this report today, as it has not discussed either the Environmental Protection Fund Report, as neither the Croatian Roads Report has been discussed. 'Cause look, we were easy 4 years ago, 20 of them were transferred by HAC to Croatian roads. It's not a small amount, it's in 4 years 2 billion kuna. Whether we are ever in financial, I will discuss the financial report of the Croatian Roads, we have not discussed what Croatian citizens are driving along these roads and that part of these funds should have been according to the county road administrations that the Croatian citizens received for these 500 million kunas. Why citizens? Well, because citizens through every liter of gasoline when they poured it, filled it up and got to that 500 million kuna. But if we were to discuss the financial report of the Croatian Roads, then we would simply discuss how these funds are being spent. Whether in view of the strong guarantees that the state gives and then after 3 years which cannot return are practically becoming a deficit of the state budget of the Croatian Railways must come in order to submit a financial report of the Croatian Railways along with the budget. Because she's in some future times the cost of the budget. Is the HRT that annually raises a billion 200, a billion compensations from Croatian citizens the same thing that should be the subject of this debate. Is it some other public undertakings that are very fat on the budget and on the budgets? Because today we're talking about one general government consumption because it's not just the state budget. For this reason or that reason, we rerouted certain budget revenues to someone else. But we here today focus not on budget spending, not on saying whether we're satisfied with how some social rights, social benefits are given, how certain subsidies are left, whether they have achieved the effect or not, but we're arguing about what is political at this point attractive and we don't care what the actual effect was in the budget. Because look, this implementation of the budget should, in principle, be together with the implementation of the budget for six months of the budget debate for next year. Because you don't have better things than to see how the budget is done, what you've done, and when the budget is proposed for next year then you can talk about what it is based on it. And not to mention when the legislative proposal comes, see, the Fiscal Responsibility Act was passed in 2010, unfortunately all these years that provision to make fiscal impact, not pro-forme, but simply to know what its impact is and expenditure and on the revenue side of the budget is not respected. But I'm saying, let's look at all these years how many times we've discussed the financial plans and also the state budget reports. It's no problem for the Ministry of Finance to make statistics, whatever they want, ESA, like this, like that. But just so we don't discuss all this together how any political moment fits us or doesn't work. Concession, do you know how long the process of building the concession register took? There are over 5,000 of them and something else, in Croatia, it lasted over 2 years because of the fact that you couldn't even get concession contracts out of some small units. And today someone says, it's like this, it's like that, it's a very complex job and it can't be used for political bickering. It is simply concessions that define how someone will give their natural goodness or space to someone, someone who may be more efficient and better managed by them and benefit from it or from the local community and the state. It's a concession function. And the lex specialis laws we define how, in what way and what we want to give. And when we talk that way, then our discussion about the budget will not be a general policy, but everyone will catch up to what's in his interest and see what's the real effect of these laws that we're voting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44210	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44211	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to tell Mr. Shucker, he said this health care system costs as much as it costs. And they allude to it as if they couldn't reduce the cost of it without harming any employees, any patients etc.. However, he forgets one thought, which is that we have a free drug, let’s say free, better say a natural medicine called hemp oil that can help many people with cancer, helps very many autistic people, with Parkinson’s disease, etc. You can look at the living experiences of people with melanomas, brain tumors, leukemia that the hemp oil saved, and now what's going on? This oil that has been proven to work, which has countless living witnesses to confirm it, that oil is not allowed in us. What Croatian healthcare offers to all patients is not selective radiation and chemotherapy. This is your solution, or HDZ solution for people with cancers. Why? Because neither the HDZ nor the SDP corresponds to the natural healing of people who are cheap because that is why they are entering the interests of pharmaceutical lobbies. And the reason why we had this robbery of the state was primarily the interest of pharmaceutical lobbies, and for the same reasons, Mr. Schucker, in your term, could be prescribed identical drugs from more expensive manufacturers. Up to 30% more expensive, why would patients need that? No, but all the drugs were on the basic list just so these fat geese, or pharmaceutical companies could have extra profits. So it can be saved without being good to everyone, but unfortunately I'm saying, you and your party don't want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44212	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative...... And for the answer? [[You can't hear it.]] Be my guest, though, dear representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44213	Comrade Pernar, I'd very much like to hear what you said, that you're the one who's passing the law. And that this law is given to those who understand themselves, and I am not a medical profession, and I cannot speak. I spoke with the financial aspect, so I said that the health system cost as much as it costs. Therefore, if you would turn it into a law, if those who are more educated about it, who know more about it, then they could, I don't want to be a lawyer to the SDP colleagues, but I can speak for HDZ, we would support it. But saying something all the time, that someone's a lawyer, that someone's stretching someone, I don't think it's right at least. Because as far as I know, there's not a lot of people who have anything to do with pharmaceuticals or anything, but I repeat when a budget is made, let's see how much these drugs cost, how much it costs to treat the hospital, let's discuss that position. About what you were saying, so tell me, how much this would financially reduce the expenditure side of the budget, and let the experts on the use of this medicine state their position and don't be sure we won't support you if that's the case. But you have to say to do something, you have to change the law. Because without changing the law, there's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44214	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44215	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you've said a lot here that we should really discuss details and budgets and rebalancing and executions, it's a great document that's too much to be debated here in detail, and you've often said we should discuss, I don't know who you mean, you from the ruling majority and HDZ or all of us together. Because here I also think of an opposition that sometimes votes against and against, while the ruling majority always votes for the laws that the government sends to the vote, to the debate in Parliament and to the adoption, between them and that document called the Republic of Croatia's budget. The opposition often brings and gives its amendments that we are mostly witnesses, they never accept, so as far as the budget itself is concerned, we have to be honest with ourselves, here I think of us, all of us and the opposition and the ruling, and to the public, that we are not bringing the budget here, but we are just voting it, and the government is constructing it and sending it here. The government, given that the ruling here has enough votes to bring in everything they want, the opposition may rebel, we here can discuss and discuss too often non-essential things, and some things that are not in the subject, and then Mr. Reiner is often people, most often of all. But unfortunately, there's nothing left for us but such a debate because basically here we're just voting on something that someone's up to in the government and in the ministries put here to bring, that's what they've constructed, and that's what those in power want, and here we have pluses and minuses, so Friday comes, then that's what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44216	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44217	Comrade Lenart, if you hadn't been a Secretary of State for a while, I wouldn't be surprised at your debate. Although I'm honestly surprised. ... So when I'm, well then you're talking wrong, then you're doing the wrong thing, but good luck with that, the Ministry of Finance wouldn't let you... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please don't, I didn't throw it to you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] This, you couldn't implement some of the things you probably pushed, so I'm talking here when it's passed every law, it has to result in certain fiscal effects, whether these or those. And even if it retains an existing state, it has a fiscal effect. At that time, any parliamentary representative can warn, each law is basically a small stone to settle the budget. And when I was talking to me, then I was thinking about all of us. 'Cause look, there's nothing better than when you're making remarks about the budget on a particular subject, as I can now say conveniently for the separation of HZZO from the Treasury because I'm exactly when that law was passed, that, that, that, and that. And today after three years, I'm not glad I did, but it turns out that I was right about all this, which is why I'm talking about it today. And look at all my discussions about the budget, and when I was in the government, and when I was the ruling representative and the opposition, we can discuss everyone. I'm actually talking about it that's the way we should discuss it. Because if we're not going to discuss it that way, the logical thing is that the task of the opposition is to criticise and no one is slowing it down. But the criticism has to be justified. So, if anyone had discussed when the budget was passed, and it won't be good today when the budget was carried out, let's say that provision was not legally implemented, there was no cost being incurred, then one could tell the one who proposed the law to carry out the deception. So at the end of what the State Audit is doing, rather than by the basis of existing laws and regulations, it looks at and controls whether everything is done properly and let's say look at health care. They concluded that it was not clearly defined how and how certain obligations defined by the Health Act are paid. So, that's what, that's a symbiosis of joint business. And only if we can do that then we'll be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44218	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44219	Thank you, Chairman. Today, our country as well as other EU members, i.e. all countries that have accepted money as debt, is in debt slavery. Being in debt slavery means that the state is unable to repay its debt without taking new loans. Of course, those who lend loans also give conditions for granting these loans. So, they're looking for, say, privatization of the pension system like we had the situation where the World Bank asked to introduce this, as I would say, those mandatory pension funds of shareholders that essentially led to the fact that pensions for future pensioners would be less. She also asked the World Bank to privatise the work of pyrotechnics. The World Bank is asking us, or other credit institutions, to privatise much of the state property. And the question arises whether this budget will solve this problem, whether this budget will make our country a sovereign state, i.e. Since last year, has this budget made our country a free country, a country that has power over money, a country that lives in prosperity. And the answer is no. So this budget didn't solve those problems. The main problem in the whole story is that the state has its own central bank. She's called the CNB, but there's no possibility of direct funding from her. So the state has an institution whose role is money emissions, but there's no way to get that money. As a result, instead of financing directly from the central bank, the State must be financed from private loans. And what do private creditors do? You see, in one film, one man explained that I'm caricing on a hundred million dollars of loans taken in the 1970s, let's say that maybe 10 billion dollars have been paid by now, and the debt is even bigger and bigger. And for what? Because this country is not able to repay debt, but always takes debt on debt and then goes debt on debt, interest on interest. Simply the total amount of debt grows from year to year. And be careful what's interesting. When you take credit to pay back your previous debt, that means you take a new head of interest, but then you only lead that principal as the return of a new one. You'll only count an extra amount of interest as interest. And when we say that last year we paid, let's say, $11 billion for interest rates, actually, an even bigger amount of interest day. And year after year what happens ladies and gentlemen? This is a very serious thing. Interest expenditures from year to year are growing, and citizens' social rights are falling. The burdens on citizens are increasing as they will say that the financial elite that has billions of them is growing every year, and citizens who have fewer incomes each year are falling and expenditures are increasing. And then they come to monetary shears when they can no longer cover the expenses, that is, when the expenditures cross the revenues and then there goes the performance, the decommissioning, etc. Unfortunately, this budget, i.e. the budget report, continues with the old practice. What does old practice mean? It is the fact that the state does not account for the expenditure on loans in budgetary expenditure. So if the state, say, this year has to pay back 35 billion kuna loans, it won't be accounted for in budget expenditures. You only account for current expenditure in budgetary expenditures, not for your loans. That's a big problem. 35 billion kuna credits you don't run as an expense, but you have what I've explained to Maric, unfortunately he's gone now, double accounting. You have an income and expenses account and you have a budget. And then what, on this paper where the budget is there is your deficit, your hole is small in the register. But in the finance account, you actually write down enormous commitments that unfortunately citizens don't realize that they're actually doing a hole in the budget. A hole that can only be rescheduled how? Taking new credits. And now you convince yourself that the economic model in which the loan is returned by taking the new loan is long-term sustainable. Right? That's right. For you, it's the most normal thing. And as former employer of Minister Maric, Mr Ivica Todorovic, he also thought the loan could be returned by taking a new loan. And then he went in to pay off the debt by taking a new debt. And what happened to Agrokora? Was the debt so returned or just increased? We're all witnessing what happened with Agrokor. The debt has grown, because I can't figure out if the people in this House or the Ministry of Finance or the National Bank are mentally retarded, whether they might be ignorant, whether they're damaged in some other way, intellectually. Whether they are bought or blackmailed that they do not realize that the credit cannot be returned by taking the new loan. And that economic model where Todorovic was returning loans by taking a new loan led to the collapse of the entire Agrokor. And that same economic model you're running at the level of the entire country. So our country, or political leadership, is leading the state into infinite borrowing, and infinite borrowing is equal to an infinite debt growth. And then the citizens say, well he says, what do I care about government debt? So if the land is in debt, is the land free? The answer is that it's not. And are citizens living in a free country free people? Of course not. So we have a problem with being in debt slavery, both the country and the people, and nothing is done. On the contrary, this policy that has led us to this continues. Why is that, I don't know. Why don't you as experts keep your mouth shut, and I as a nurse have to talk about it. It's a great shame for your profession, for your colleges and for your bosses, who don't see clearly. It's unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen, that I, as a nurse, belong to the role of explaining to you that a loan cannot be returned by taking a new loan. It's a shame you don't see it. And that this economic model, which certainly, checked and unequivocally leads to an ever greater debt and a loss of property for the state and the people. You don't judge that model. On the contrary, it is your role here to defend him, to claim that this report is good, that state finances work well, etc. But according to you, the results of this work are a disaster for the country. It's a disaster for the country. And it is seen by the number of young men who leave it. Because in this country, because of this policy, there is no future anymore. People went to war to live in a free country, they and their families, but today Croatia is not free. Croatian is managed from the outside. You have seen how our president behaves, she thinks Croatia will not be on the sidelines if she pushes closer to the centre of the picture. She thinks she'll be more respected if she licks herself more. However, what does the Croatian people have of painting it and that our prime minister Plenkovic travels in Brussels? Nothing. We have the status of a colony that can no longer decide anything. The only solution, for this agony, is actually getting out of that model, and hence from the EU, which has imposed this model on us and which actually keeps us in subjugated status. With the breakdown of Agrokor, there will be a break in many companies. You're all aware of that. And it will come to this, that our manufacturing companies will no longer have anyone else to place the goods on. And why I'll explain later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44220	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44221	Rightly so, my colleague Pernar is talking about enslavement. Sometimes states and nations enslaved themselves with the military, occupations. There's no need for that today. That would be too expensive, it would cost people lives, those who would enslave, and the question is, what would that actually bring? It's much simpler to enslave someone with a loan, money, put him in a dependent position. A position he'll never get out of. This country will never pay off the principal, it only pays off the interest. How does that debt grow? The former Yugoslavia was in charge, the whole country for $18 billion, when it fell apart before it fell apart. Now each of the republics is much more in charge than that, so much has grown that debt. Everything you see is done in both Croatia and other republics. It was made in self-government socialism. All nursing homes, all schools, all hospitals, and this government, can't paint what was done during Tito. You're talking about the president, she has an initiative to learn Croatian at 2 levels. Basic level and advanced level. And I agree with her here, completely. Why learn future when children in this country don't have a future, what will be futur?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44222	The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44223	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic. Ha, we're all witnesses, that modern colonization is different from the one we once saw. In fact, it used to be such that someone obeyed the people, forcing them to accept, say, Hungarian, German, Italian, where people could not sing national songs, wave their flags, etc. However, modern colonization is much more subtle, it allows all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia to wave their flags and national symbols, to sing their national songs, to eat their traditional dishes, essentially, to speak whatever they think. But in one sphere, you can't talk. It must not be spoken against a new occupation and a new colonization. And it's, like you said, working through credit and subjecting the entire economic system to foreign centres of power, and parallel to that, the disbursement of the state and the people of capital. People voted for capitalism, and they will be decapitated in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44224	Thank you very much. And now the closing word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, will have a distinguished representative, Pernar, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44225	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I've said many times that the Central Bank and Exchange Exchange are and that such a course is not sustainable. However, although none of you really perceive it as a problem, this problem will arise. And the thing is, now I'm going to explain to you, in the end, I'm only going to look back at the initial premise. The thing is, in Lidl, it's only 20% of domestic goods, and in Konzum there was 70%, what's going on? It happens that domestic goods are more expensive than imports because of the CNB's exchange rate policy, domestic goods are more expensive than imports. And what's going on? You and when you put on Croatian chocolates, say in Lidl import chocolates are cheaper. But the people who produce those chocolates in Kras, for example, think they're responsible for making Croatian chocolates more expensive. And the truth is, the exchange rate policy cost the import goods 20 to 30 percent. This is explained by academic Balletic you have his article where he says that by fixing the course we have entered into a situation from which the only way out is from. And now what's going on? What happens is that domestic goods means Agrokor will go bankrupt for, I don't know, 12 months and how long you'll get into a situation that what was domestic goods on shelves will be removed, or what remains will be uncompetitive, simply won't be sold. And why won't it be sold? Because people don't have money. When a person has a pension of 1,500 kuna he will not buy two kunas or kunas more expensive chocolate because it is Croatian. He'll buy a chocolate that's cheaper. And this course policy has led us to import bread in Croatia, so in Croatia, I don't know if you know that imports are frozen bread from Poland. Imports of eggs increased by 500%, water imported. So we have no problem importing high-tech goods into Croatia, ha Dear God, if we can't make microchips, we can't work. But no one can tell me that we are unable to produce our own water and our own bread and our own eggs. But this nakarad system has even led to that. So the cows that give milk ended up in the slaughterhouse, importing milk has also grown significantly. And what's going on? You see that there is an economic breakdown and a reaction to your economic breakdown is the introduction of more taxes, so there is a continuing gnawing of citizens whether there is a tax on real estate, whether it is the introduction of divisors, whether it is the collection of those legalizations, etc. And you finally get people's money out of your pockets, you destroy a healthy economy, the resulting number of employees is getting smaller, and the number of crazy people in the country is getting smaller. How are fewer and fewer people in the country going on? Well, there will be fewer people on the highways of those who are gone in Croatia who have moved they will no longer drive on the highways, they will no longer fill the state budget, they cannot repay the loans that you have imposed on us. And what's going on? I'm telling you all the time that the problem in central bank policy is that the state must be sovereign and be financed directly from it. And all of you, as in some choir, say that you should not and should not be ashamed of it, so you boast. You say the budget report is good, everything's great, everything's for five etc., and we see that people on the street are digging through the trash, we see that the beggar is getting more and more. Here today was the article that came out that made it a shame that the cops started eating in the soup kitchens. So when you guys have cops eating in the soup kitchens, you have to wonder what these people's material condition is. You turned the poor girl against the poor. You get those cops to do the detachments, and you're the same cops in the kitchen. It's scary. And I don't see where this is going or what our country's future is unless the current policy changes. And it is sad that both HDZ and SDP supported it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44226	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate, and on both of these proposals, therefore, also the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the state budget and the report on the annual report carried out, and we will vote when the conditions are obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44227	Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and the proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2016. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 95 for, 37 abstentions and 4 against the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning The Budget Act of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt: 1. Decisions on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 94 for, 41 abstentions were made by that decision. 2. Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most 90 votes for, 42 abstentions were made and that decision. 3. Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 83 for, 45 abstentions made and that decision. 4. Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 92 for, 42 abstentions were made and that decision. 5. Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 87 for, 40 abstentions were made and that decision. Six. Decision on granting consent to the 2016 Annual Report on the implementation of the 2016 HZZO financial plan Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 88 for, 42 abstentions and 2 votes against this decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fiscal liability law and Article 16(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The regulations on drawing up and submitting a declaration of fiscal responsibility and a report on the application of the fiscal rules of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 88 for, 44 abstentions and 1 against a report adopted on the application of the fiscal rules for 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44401	And we move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 107. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the decisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received their reports at the meeting. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Nikola Brnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44402	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. The amendment of the Legislative and Acceptance Committee set out in the final text of the law, relating to nomochnik and nomotechnic supplementation, shall primarily be adopted. As regards the Law on Railways, the arrangements and conditions for the operation of railway transport, rail infrastructure status, rail market, rail infrastructure management and access conditions to the infrastructure shall be governed by the principles and procedures applicable to the introduction and fixing of fees for railway services and the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity. The criteria for issuing and removing licences to railway undertakings and rail transport services of particular national interest for which the Republic of Croatia provides part of the asset. I can split the final bill by amending and supplementing the Law on Railways into three parts. The first is to comply with the provisions of Directive 2012/34. the second is amended the provisions on the property law relations of railway infrastructure and the third part of the Railway Act is prescribed to provide funds for the financing of railway infrastructure from the state budget from the charged excise duty on energy. The harmonisation with the provisions of Directive 2012/34 refers primarily to the legal property of the EU, provides for exemptions from the application of the applicable Law on Railways in the sense that provisions relating to the independence of the basic functions and the financing of the infrastructure manager, i.e. conditions for access to services and the collection of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity do not apply to private-owned infrastructure exclusively used by its owner for its own freight transport. Next to be in line with the inquiry... the pilot shall be deleted from the definition of the concept of railway infrastructure which has defined the legal status of the same and shall be determined in legal status by a specific Article and the concept and component of the railway infrastructure shall remain specified in a specific Article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, it is determined that industrial railways are not components of railway infrastructure and in accordance with Directive 2012/34 and a provision that rail infrastructure can be used on equal terms by all interested railway undertakings in a manner prescribed by the Law on Railways. The concept of special type of maintenance of railway vehicles is also harmonised, i.e. the name... the translation into Croatian and the obligation of the infrastructure manager to cooperate with other infrastructure managers with regard to the compensation system for the provision of rail transport services crossing more than one infrastructure network within the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall also determine the obligation of the infrastructure manager to, in response to a specific time limit to et ad hoc requirements for individual train routes and to determine the obligation to adopt a business plan and to keep a register of infrastructure manager's assets. It shall be determined that the railway undertaking is entitled to access the railway infrastructure for the provision of international passenger transport services involving cabotage and access to service facilities, provided that the regulatory authority determines or is the primary objective of the passenger transport service between stations located in different Member States. As regards amending the provisions on the property legal relations of railway infrastructure, this is related to the objective of identifying land-based book relations and enabling, applying projects, and to making it easier and more efficient to withdraw funds from EU funds. It is determined that the construction, modernisation of reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, where the expropriation procedures are subject to a regulation on the enforcement and determines the legal status of railway infrastructure as a public goods in general use in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in the prohibition of alienation and acquisition of rights with the possibility of establishing the right of service and right of construction. As regards the Law on Railways, it is prescribed that the financing of railway infrastructure is provided from the state budget with the aim of financial consolidation that the provision is added to the maximum amount of compensation to be paid to the amount secured for that purpose in the national budget for each year. The provision remains that the compensation for the financing of the railway infrastructure is paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy of €0.20 at the expense of the infrastructure manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44403	Thank you very much. Now let's first ask if a committee reporter wants to take a word for it. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first representative Tomislav Žagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44404	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's this railway law package we had, which we have today, otherwise whether it's about the Law on the Safety of Railways, about the rails market, this Law on Railways was a good opportunity here's a little chance, and in past discussions we remember the situation in which the railway is and all of those really tending and intents we have to make to improve the situation on the railways because we are more or less all agree that the situation on the railways, Croatian railways, is not good. As far as this legislative proposal is concerned, the MOST Club will support it, as the secretary of state has said, it is a matter of further compliance with EU directives and I don't think we actually have a choice here, and we don't need to consider this in particular because if we have adopted the rules, then we have to stick to them. So the State Secretary said that what is most important is the implementation of Directive 2012/34. And I'd like to point out here now one thing that might be a little doubt, and perhaps the secretary of state will have a chance to comment on it. So here we agree that the infrastructure manager is obliged to bring in a business plan. And on that basis, what may not be the best solution but it makes sense that this amount of 20 lira per litre of charged excise duties on energy charged in the infrastructure is paid up to the maximum amount provided for that purpose in the national budget for each year. Probably in accordance with the very plan proposed by the infrastructure manager. There is little and my remark was before why it is limited but here if a good plan is made there will be no problem. However, what little is, I see as a problem in the future, so far we have one infrastructure manager, it is owned by the Republic of Croatia, according to the Law on Liberalisation and under the Law on Railways, this manager is elected every 5 years and we may happen to be a foreigner infrastructure manager or another legal person in 5 years. We now allow the law to make it easier to plan construction on rail infrastructure. And then the question arises if it comes into the hands of a stranger how much will his actual motive be that he invests in something that after 5 years would be taken over by someone else. Or to ask the question like this, which is actually the motivation of the Republic of Croatia to invest significant funds in something that someone else will actually manage after 5 years. It's the only doubt, but she's like that now, the railroad law is like that, and I'm saying we can't get away from it. Since more or less the State Secretary said in the opening statement about these amendments, I would no longer owe the club MOST to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44405	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives, the HDZ on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44406	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the motions from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed amendments and additions to this Railway Act fully comply with Directive 2012/34 which speaks about the establishment of a single European railway area. As mentioned in the first reading, the harmonisation relates to the provisions of determining the concept of railway infrastructure and the provisions on a specific type of maintenance of railway vehicles, the provisions on the adoption of a business plan and the introduction of a register of assets of the infrastructure manager are added, the obligation of the infrastructure manager to cooperate with other infrastructure managers relating to the systems for determining the compensation for the provision of rail services and transport crossing over more than one infrastructure network within the EU is determined. The proposed law also regulates the question of compensation for the financing of rail infrastructure in charge of excise duty, energy and this final bill of law has been completed in a legal and new technical sense, of course we are satisfied with the harmonisation with the law on changes to the Construction Act because it will greatly help to implement important projects in other infrastructure branches. As counterpart Žagar said, last week we discussed in the Assembly two laws concerning rail transport, one was the proposal for a law on regulation of the rail market and protection of passenger rights in rail transport, and the second was the proposal for a law amending the Law on safety and interoperability of the railway system. The first was for the purpose of harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation, and the second was to extend the deadline for installing autostop devices, tow vehicles, to operators driving Croatian rail infrastructure. I must say that, in general, rail infrastructure and rail transport in most EU countries is of national and strategic interest, so compliance with EU directives and liberalisation processes are quite slow. In the debates, we supported compliance with EU legislation, but we expressed one serious concern about the state of our rail infrastructure and our mobile facilities, and we know that HZ infrastructure manages almost 2,000 and 700km of railway, of which the total length of the railway line is only 10% bi-collective, the remaining one-way track remains, and which greatly limits both the permissive and the transport capacity of individual railway lines. The total European rail infrastructure is about 215 thousand kilometers long, and if the RH railway line is compared to the EU railway line, we will see that we participate with only 1.3% in the infrastructure. But due to the geographical and geographical location, two of the nine main European corridors are now passing through Croatia, this corridor of the Mediterranean, meaning connecting the Mediterranean with Central and Northern Europe and the Rajna-Dunav corridor, which is the former 10th corridor connecting Western and eastern Europe further towards Turkish. And that's why, these are important corridors and I think let's just take care of them, and that's why, in the coming period, it has to be a political and economic challenge how to drastically increase rail transport both by passenger and freight so as not to lose this little burden as much as we have left on those corridors. The financing of EU funds for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia will strengthen the European transport network connecting the east and north and south and removing traffic fragmentation and bottlenecks on European transport routes, improving infrastructure and linking different modes of transport to multimodal transport across Europe. We are aware that so far more EU funds should have been withdrawn and more projects reported, but here, a clumsy policy. The fact that the Republic of Croatia has late entered the EU, with a poorly managed system, has not unfortunately been the only difficult circumstances, the problems have also occurred in the implementation of the projects themselves. These are long-term public procurement procedures, often stalled and stalled with the beginning of work, problems related to long-term authorisation, slow settlement of property relations, changes in spatial plans and a number of other things that made it difficult to start an investment, making the investments financed by European funds significantly delayed. I hope that these days the adoption of the Croatian Assembly of amendments to the already mentioned Law on Interoperability of the Railway System will contribute to the safety of Croatian railways. The fact that we had to extend by one year in order to equip all railway system stakeholders with a compatible automatic train protection device because when it is installed, the safety of rail infrastructure transport will increase, improve the interoperability of the system and open the market to increase competitiveness. I believe that in the last 20 years a negative trend in our railways will be improved because the reduction and speed limit on the rails in the Republic of Croatia is used as a measure which reduces the risk on parts of the network and increases safety. But this also significantly disrupts the quality of the service both passenger and freight transport, and unfortunately this method is generalized and has unfortunately become a rule because the average speed on our railways is 34 kilometers per hour. And in Europe, in the world, we know that this speed is increasing year by year and that this infrastructure is now competitive in relation to road and air traffic, for cross-city air traffic in the EU. The current business situation points to the need for better management of the Croatian railway system but the necessity of modernising mostly railway facilities without which the railways in Croatia are increasingly growing, without which the railways in Croatia will lose their sense of their existence more and more. And this final bill has no significant changes to the first reading. I think it is understandable that the proposing position that funds for maintaining the rail infrastructure in the national budget at the annual level are foreseen in accordance with the plans adopted and the envisaged needs, as well as limiting the provision of excise funds necessary for the purpose of financial consolidation. Of course, we believe that these amounts will harmonize with the potential differences of those collected from excise duty over the past years. We also agree with the Ministry's argument on the issue that was on the parent board and we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, and it is related to the construction of new track on land that is not owned by the Republic of Croatia, but is owned by local self-government, and that reason says that construction of connection colossions can be achieved or built by the HZ infrastructure, and after construction these colossions become an integral part of the rail infrastructure with the corresponding land. And they are public good in the general application managed by HZ infrastructure or can be built by local self-government or private persons who as owners of such industrial colossals have to meet the conditions for construction and in accordance with the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System and the corresponding legal regulations. And here, in the end, I would just say that the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44407	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44408	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Cosic, so let's point out one more time. You mentioned the most important purpose of this law, and the best example for this is actually building direction Gradec – St. Ivan Frog 12.2 km, which is 85% funded by EU funds, and 15% I think from domestic funds. And I think they are, and you mentioned it. If this law makes it possible, so prepare documentation, report projects, then we'll make a full hit. You mentioned corridors, of course there are both very important Slavonia and Corridor 5B and Corridor 5C, although in Slavonia the problem is with those two, the problem is separate railways from Nasic and here from Celic towards Bjelovar. So these are the directions you should think about. Because to highlight the railway line is not built just to make a profit on it, the railway line is built also because of the directions that are very important for the development of each part of the Republic of Croatia, especially those that are abandoned. And in that sense, if this law makes a move, we'll do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44409	Thank you. The honourable MP Ćosic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44410	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Žagar, it is also important to recognise the interests of the market because these corridors are recognised by the EU as strategic corridors for the transport of goods by both domestic and transit, foreign goods. We know that ships are coming to the port of Rijeka to unload a burden that should go both to Central and Northern Europe. And they're important corridors. For these corridors, we can withdraw EU funds, and of course these other directions should be developed. They are, the railways are classified on these to say European corridors, domestic corridors and even regional railways where local and regional self-government can invest in them. Unfortunately, we know the state of our regional, local self-government that there is no money. And I certainly am in favour of developing everyone to say rail directions, but we need to know to say what the priorities are. Because the maintenance, construction of these railways and rail corridors exclusively comes from these 20 bits of excise duty and how much of it, how much HHG infrastructure manages to earn from these operators. Everything else would be some state subsidies that are now not even allowed anymore, so the priorities are certainly these European freight corridors, which are recognised by the operator. But normally we need to develop this local network as much as we can with our own resources domestic, but also where it's not possible. Because rail infrastructure is one of the most expensive structures. So this can be replaced by some other means of transport, whether these are buses that the same HH can introduce and replace on that part to drive cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44411	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a fellow fact that we're discussing the directives again. I'm probably not going to ask the secretary, I guess some projects, programs are going to happen, and if those funds were going to be used for our railroad, where the only thing left to do might be making Western movies. But perhaps in Western films they were too fast those locomotives for these in today's Croatia. The fact is that HZ Infrastructure, HZ Cargo, HZ Passenger Transport employs a huge number of people within the management structures. That triba obviously rationalization, because we literally don't have, the other day we said we don't have any infrastructure, we're losing passengers, and we're losing freight. So the question is, what is the point of what would be most important to us at this point? An example of Rijeka, a port in Rijeka would be a tributary, long ago the tribal of the essence of the railroad was made i.e. The infrastructure for one transport that would be plus the Croatian state, which would be and, however, we are talking nonstop here about the railway. I've been in Parliament one 30 points of the agenda, but I don't see any shifts except three years ago, four, five was a passenger transport subsidy if I'm not mistaken for 350 million kuna. How much is the subsidy now? It'll be twice as big. Worse and worse are the conditions, that's the problem. Since we are in the EU, our conditions in the railway are even worse, it is a fact, and more and more subsidies are growing, more and more entrenched, and worse and worse service. So, we here have to say clearly we want to do it in order to do it or we're going to shut it down, and the interest of the state is to make it a key transport... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44413	Thank you. The honourable representative Pero Ćosic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44414	Thank you very much. In 2011, when the government changed, Milanovic's government abolished a series of railways, traffic fell from 66 million passengers per year, today it is 20 million passengers per year. The restructuring was carried out by me, without idea, so there was a disbanding of a certain part of the people, transformed the HZ into 3 independent companies, which had no communication channels and today developed "each in their direction", I think it should stop and that it should simply think about whether the Croatian railways are reunited in holding, whether in the group and that they have one main and tail that will lead. Of course, the account and to say bags must be separate, that we know what infrastructure management is, which is infrastructure, which is operators, but in order to develop them wisely, means someone has to reconcile those common interests of passenger transport, he would one way, to say in one direction, HZ would develop second, while the infrastructure is third, I think these communication channels must become, and then normally that there must be communication channels with Croatian hands. That's what I said last time. So we have to figure out which ports are for which cargo, which transports and then adjusts the rail routes and railway lines. If there were more or less people in the administrations, I wouldn't know how to tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44415	Thank you. The next SDP representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vedran Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44416	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretaries, with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not speak what is here and the secretary has spoken about what this law is about, to be in line with the EU directive, and already on the second hand, because it has already failed to comply for the first time, but we have been instructed to continue to bring a number of things into line. The SDP Club will be abstained under this law in the first place, because this amendment and the addition of the law determines how the financing of the railway infrastructure will be carried out, in a way that will be ensured from the state budget and that the charges for energy charges, with a reason, are charged to determine, with the aim of financial consolidation, the compensation for the financing of the railway infrastructure, which is paid per litre of the excise duty paid, for energy in the amount of 20 June, on the account of the infrastructure manager, by adding a provision to pay the maximum amount to the amount provided for that purpose in the national budget... A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about railroads, we don't talk the same way we talk about roads. The roads are what Croatia is proud of our neighbours, regardless of the fact that we have to and that we will pay big loans for years. The situation with the railroads can say that she's sad, when we look at the portals, she even becomes a joke subject, first of all. In particular, here, some activity has been announced for the upcoming holidays, so we see by the portals that many make fun of from Osijek to Sibenik, di driving for, di way takes 23 hours. I'd call that trip before the adventure, not the trip. I went to check, there is also a line that lasts much shorter, i.e. 13 or 14 hours, but it is a distance of about 650 km, again it is a little too much, the more you drive on the main state routes and especially when I turn my memory from student days, more than 15 years ago, on the route Zagreb-Kutin, the train now drives half an hour longer. And simply, all these efforts and what my colleague Bulj looked back and said in his replica, that we were giving 350 million kuna to the passenger transport, now this amount is much higher, and the progress is simply not seen. He reminded his colleague, Žagar, in the replica, that a new line is being built from the EU funds, which, thank God, is the first railway in half a century to be built in our homeland. I'm not going to pull the speed parallels at all, and I'm not going to pull the railroad during Austria, because I think we're under 50% of what we got in some way built, almost, centuries and a half ago. I'm sorry to see the same thing stopped talking about buying new trains. I don't want to compare our country with China and Japan, where they drive magnetic trains, but when we look at those poorer countries of the EU, not the poorest, let's say Spain is below some average, their trains look like space programs to ours. What is driving on our railways is certainly something that we cannot boast about and that I would personally like to hide, but also the fact that there are some illogical decisions in the infrastructure as well as in HZ passenger transport, that certain routes begin to be renewed, so the second administration comes, and so I do not mention it, too, in what I said, in the beginning of the debate on the timetable of Osijek-Sibenik, that there is simply no communication with HZ passenger transport and local self-government units, that even asking for little money to help and subsidise from towns and municipalities in Slavonia where the municipality budget is reminded of 2.5, 3 million kunas not 30 or 40 as much as it is at sea to allow for any change of the timetable and some bit came into contact. We have silly schedules where when you have to cross the train comes ten minutes after you've passed the one you have to sit in, and really the way from Daruvar to Zagreb, part of it is on a bus, it takes about four hours, because when you open the timetable there is offered and 6, 7, 8 hours so I just don't see good will in either of these state-owned companies. And regardless of what counterpart Cosic said that maybe it's not good that the Holding was shut down, there are three firms, you know who's in charge of them. They have a ministry in charge, and they need to have a resolute assistant minister and communications. I believe that we have space, this railroad that is already being built St. John's Frog-Gradac is that which is light in a tunnel in some way, but simply if you've killed the desire and will of the passengers to ride the railroad for decades, and they haven't done it for years, it'll be hard to get them back to use the railroad as a transport that is being used everywhere and the world in the first place for economic reasons, because of their price of transportation used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44417	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44418	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Grandmother. So I totally agree with you and it's a little hard to look at and listen to the portals were full these days, it's well said by making fun of the Croatian railway where the people who have bicycled from Osijek to Sibenik came almost the same or faster than the train is coming today. However, this situation on the railway is due to the fact that this has not been done since the 1990s on here for 27 years, you've well established in fact no more serious rail direction has been made. I'm not going to mention the truth now because you're also an agent at the time, and I personally advocated in 2011, and we opposed the abolition. A colleague Ćosic said the wrong incorrect information, so the local line 205 on Sirac-Bečelic's 52.8km section is local 206 Najice-Pleternica on the 35km section and regional railway 103 Knin-Ličko Long field, the state border towards Martin Brod was shut down in May 2010, so it stopped then. But I don't think it's a good idea if we continue to engage politically in this important issue. I think the only solution is to invest, attract European funds, projects, apply for these projects. What has now been introduced into the law of procedures regarding the building permit of everything that needs to be accelerated and I think that the Croatian railway should be raised to the level that deserves it and if it really continues this way then the next question will be whether or not we will be able to talk more about the Croatian railway because our engineers are driving with one engine, one engine breaks down and they are driving. The situation is simply not good and the question is then security and all that comes out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44419	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44420	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Sagar, I agree. Together we tried to solve some things and improve, unfortunately we were not particularly successful, it has to be established because the results are seen, but here we both realized that building this new railway St. John's Frog-Gradac is perhaps an incentive one to know that our country can really withdraw funds from the eu funds for building the railways. But I do appeal to everyone who is in this dam to systematically think about everything I mention, people have stopped riding trains. Whenever the passengers used the railroad, it was an automatic road transport. Carriers have lowered their prices to be competitive with the railway, and it is simple for the benefit of our citizens. Here's hoping we won't waste as many years as we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44421	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44422	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague, you mentioned one thing that I said in the previous debate, so the subsidies four and a half years ago were 350 million kunas, and now they're probably much bigger or twice as big. 4 years from the entry into the EU where they said that we would be linked infrastructure to European rail infrastructure, you obviously want to go forward, and that we are going back in the last 4 years on rail transport. It was said when we join the EU there will be connected railways, roads, there will be no border disputes, borders.... So it seems to me that, apart from we regularly bring this directive every morning, every day, in this case now about railroads, the only thing we have, we have worse and slower trains, the worse the infrastructure. So I don't understand what's going on in these four years if we're going into these bright stars of the EU? Has something happened revolutionaryly or is it happening, can you explain it? Should better railroads, better connected, faster at least not like in Japan... At least half-mile/h because the fact that this situation is unsustainable in Croatian railways, mainly because of these subsidies invested year after year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44423	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44424	Dear colleague, I fully agree with what you said and said. It's not clear to me either, nor is fuel more expensive in the last four years since it was one subsidy. I think it's working here I might be lying, but there's going to be a chance to correct me I think it's about 700 million kuna twice as much. I just think the worst thing about it is that citizens have gotten used to riding a train, because that train ride, like I said in the debate, is an adventure. It simply does not follow that spirit of time, it brings us back more than a century ago, but here in the hope and faith that I learn from those who know and that there is a project not so great but that is precisely why in this situation where Croatian railways are important to see how someone knew how to do it to do bigger and stronger projects, to work on building whole infrastructure and improving passenger transport simply not to embarrass ourselves. When a tourist comes to you, when he sits on your train, he talks. And here, I just feel bad when I talk about the railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44425	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44426	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Babić, you mentioned exactly Osijek and the city where I come from, and thus Slavonia and Baranja, especially with Sibenik, it also filled the media columns that one of the lines is almost 23 hours and three precedents. What else is at the fastest level of 12 hours two precedents. But it's not the only case. We had the 2014 suspension of certain grants to the carrier when this resulted in the abolition of non-erable lines especially with us in Slavonia. That's how the lines to Baranja were cut. I remember before she was and... international line,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Budapest that went across Osijek was also abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my opinion, of course, we must be aware of what you said and the number of passengers and people who want to travel by train. When we look at a little bit in more developed countries where, of course, trains are faster and safer and people are used by them, they are not so much cheaper. So it became one means of transport that requires a certain dose, of course both speed and luxury, but it's not for wide masses, at least not from our points of view and our incomes when we look, when we go a little outside of Croatia. In my opinion, the aim and strategy of development, of course, that subsidies should and should not be given up on them because it is also the development of our village and cities, so it is not all here where it is closest to Zagreb. And we know what it is in 2003, what highways have made tourism, of course, that statistical indicator has changed, but surely highways have made one progress in increasing the number of tourist nights, coming to the sea. It's certainly one of the consequences of the highway itself, more accessible. This model should also be used through European funds, the same thing to do with railways, the benefits of these projects and of course the integration of Croatia and Croatia must be connected to all their 4 largest cities that do not, at one time there were 527 from Osijek to Zagreb that comes at 9, now there is none more, it is now at 10 o'clock. So that, I'm sure I agree with you that there can't be a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44427	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44428	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I see we are on the same track, to learn about the same problems the Croatian railways have. And of course the attitude is that HZ infrastructure or whoever is in charge should not, the minister is competent and not HH to cut any line because precisely because of these donations of the state of HZ in passenger transport in the first place, there must be this social note. Furthermore, we all know what it means to transport goods by rail or by road and simply by rail and must be and must be the foundation of development especially in Slavonia from where you come from, in Eastern Slavonia. And I sincerely hope that the railway infrastructure will be one of the most important parts of the Slavonia project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44429	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Babić, you mentioned the importance of continuity in projects, i.e. the problem that occurs when discontinuity arises due to change either in administration or in administration. And I would point out here that unfortunately it was known and it happens that we have a problem with continuity in projects even within the same administration. And I have to mention here the diameter of the reconstruction of the Zagreb-Samobor railway, so these 14km. In the 7th session of the Parliament, we also made a special item for the project in the state budget to co-finance it then from the European funds. However, after the first complications in the budgeting of the project already in 2015 it fell out of the state budget, apparently between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure was not a good coordination although it was the same administration and now it's somehow gone. I am pleased that the ministry will now try to re-analyze the whole situation and return it to priority projects but I will stress the importance of the continuity of these projects. So this is something particularly important for this Samobor and the world-wide region, it is also a profitable railway that should, by all parameters, be financed with EU funds but need continuity and tenacity in the development and implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44431	The answer of the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44432	Here, thank you. My colleague Stier, I don't know what to say, I'm sorry to notice such things and that such things happen, that some projects fall out for any reason but here in the hope that this project will also be realised, the more that they really exist and are based because in the ring around the city of Zagreb these directions can and must be easily rentable unlike those I talked about earlier. When you replicated something I thought of and I believe you won't mind me, which I'm going to talk about, to just explain how far our railroad has lagged which, of course, is not only a burden on our country but also a country before. In the early '90s, Daruvar was a UNPROFOR from Argentina. And members of the Argentine UNPROFOR took pictures with our trains. Of course, it's easy to laugh because the Argentineans from South America, we, from the heart of Europe, were funny to them, our trains where they were driving, and this situation explains how much they didn't invest in rail infrastructure, I say after 50 years we're building a new railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44433	Thank you very much. And now we're going to move on to an individual debate, and she's the only one who's ever been contacted by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44434	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, I hope. I welcome the T-shirt first and her assistants. But you'd have to say right away, here's the whole debate, the familiar state. The fact that every day and often on committees, the Transport Committee, and in these benches, we talk about directives in this case, about the railroad, but the fact again I will mention that both HZ infrastructure and HZ Cargo and passenger transport have a huge number of people, I don't know exactly, maybe you will give this answer, the fact that we have even subsidies that are in millions, now four years ago as I said they were smaller, now they're bigger, and we've entered the EU. Do these directives even make sense if since we joined the EU, which is four years ago, we actually have a worse and worse railway, but then the railway should be a strategic very important link and the port of Rijeka with Western Europe, which is why it is important for us to protect our sea from the port of Koper, which is essentially a problem. So she's a strategic construction, low-trail railroad, because the fact that this old case just mentioned a colleague, that only more for tourism, more for adventure. Because the adventure of this train is to drive what I know from Split to Zagreb 24 hours or more. Therefore, as strategic projects, it is not enough just these directives, they may help, are we able to interest me, the answer from you, from the ministry, what should we all together in Parliament and you in executive power do to local self-government, to change that? I haven't been able to grow subsidies since we joined the EU, from 350 million to 700 million, and trains are becoming slower and smaller and less and less traffic, passengers and transport. Therefore, there are vague things, simply vague. That we have entered the EU, to connect ourselves with the EU rail infrastructure, to be a centre, a hub, to use our resources, ports and everything we have, to connect them, and the Danube River, too, to be that hub of Croatia, to be the biggest transport, the fastest, but the fact is, that I will repeat it the other day we spoke the same thing about railways. In Japan, when a second is late, I don't want it to happen in Croatia, harakiri makes, in our day, two late trains. It's simple, but the big money is out there, I'm not saying this in my mind, God forbid someone does something, but the fact is that it's so irresponsible, it's negligent in these three companies. HZ infrastructure, you do not invest, very little, anything, the nails from those tracks, HZ Cargo, means this part of the transport in decline, and as far as passenger transport is concerned, and we see for ourselves that it is getting worse and worse, that it literally came to make fun of the transport, they simply lost their image. Well, that should be something that is the most potent means of transport and for the development of Croatian transport infrastructure, which is a railway. Where we've been stuck since we joined the EU, because I remember when we joined the EU, before accession negotiations... It'll be faster than jet planes, but it's not like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Worse and worse, more and more subsidies. What's with the results, secretary? Can you explain what's going on, do we have enough expert personnel in these three railway administrative bodies? Do we have people here or are they enough for themselves? Do they have responsibilities towards the railways and towards Croatia, according to the roads, do they do anything? I'm not talking about the employees who charge the ticket there, the conductors. And train drivers. I'm talking about the system, is it even there? Is it broken or enough under these lights of our Parliament to convince ourselves that in these legislative directives we are essentially raising some standard and is essentially false. For the last four years, we've been falling since we joined the EU. It is necessary to clearly state what solutions are, possibly EU funds, how much funds are being used, whether used, how many are in the account, have not been used. That's the question now. But I'm here as an agent, one of the 150 here, expecting answers to those questions. Are we going to become the centre of Europe, what has promised us in advance of joining the EU, what has been signed now comes out, and we also have the opportunity and capacity to have all the financial means for this case, for the rail infrastructure, whether we can take it at all, we have prepared the documentation, whether we have intensified everything that needs to be intensified or year by year, from mandate to mandate in this House will always discuss the same things, about bad infrastructure, about slow trains, about Western films, I don't know. I think the serious situation is that Croatia has this huge potential, and geostrategic, east-west, Rijeka and our ports connect, huge potential. And so, can we use it, can't we, in what way, tell us about it to the parliamentary representatives what the plans are, how much resources we now have to attract and who will direct them. Or that these are just in love here. That body management. What are they for? It's their purpose to get paid, to drive cars, to have maybe managerial contracts, so you can't change them, if you change them maybe millions of dollars, I don't know, I don't want to check it, but the fact is that the situation is catastrophic, all my colleagues agreed on it, I didn't say it myself, so everyone here is unanimous and left and right and center, so I expect you, as a representative, and I hope my colleagues to give answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44435	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44436	Thank you, Vice President. Here is colleague Miro Bulj you have really taken a good look at the situation in the Croatian Railways in general looking at all three companies. And here I welcome this initiative of yours to give a new draft strategy to rebuild the whole railroad in the right sense of the word. Because we also know that from the low-level track a lot of stories for years. We are talking about the EU project from Zagreb to Križevci, the second track, the electrification, then the repair of the track towards Kutina and Novska, all of this is going slowly and more standing than it is doing. Well, here's what we can discuss on the board as soon as we're both members, maybe some kind of thematic session, of course, with our ministry colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44437	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44438	Comrade Babic, I would like to agree with you that the new strategy and the new model's tribune, because obviously this has not been going well so far. I hope our ministry, executive authority, members of the board can find that solution, and mostly people of the profession. Because Croatia is potent on strategic issues. It has the ability to transport mostly by rail, because we are, by God and naturally, placed in this area. However, we are sinking lower and lower and higher and more and more subsidizing higher and higher costs. We need to use these natural resources and that potential geostrategically along with these loose laws that we're making, and the situation is getting worse and worse. And I hope that it would be a good one joint proposal for us all to sit together and make one strategy, and even if the trial and the wider debate were to be included, the public debate would involve the profession and the solution would be found. Because under these lights here, we don't really know, people think when maybe these lights stick us together, so they think it's all ideal. It's not ideal, it's just... EU Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The situation is quite different in real life. We need to see these personnel inside all these railway companies, see what they're doing, see if they have potential, if they have potential, if they have motivations to protect, defend our strategic interest in the railroad. If they do not have the tribune to change things in human potential, it means the best of people, and also our natural possibilities for people who are on the side of experts to get involved, to create a strategy that will serve Croatia for honor, and not in this way to make fun of a very important component of traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44439	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44440	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, here are the many directions in Croatia where railways should be renovated or renovated, modernized etc. But we can't get to that neural point that we're very sensitive to in Istria. Well, we don't have a railroad with the rest of Croatia since never. So somewhere in the 1980s there was a single tube of tunnels and there was the only quality connection of Istria with the rest of Croatia, and there in '43. the decisions have been made on the accession of Istria to the mother country. In this respect, therefore, Istria has indeed remained a poor woman because we do not have a quality railway connection with the rest of Croatia. And certainly that the potential of Istria in the tourism sense, the economic sense would be much more developed if we had that direction we look forward to. And any election whether it was the parties that won the elections, whether on the side of HDZ or SDP, they were talking about a second tube of tunnels where Istria will be connected to the rest of Croatia. For now, we are going towards Zagreb in quality through our friendly country of Slovenia, so via Ljubljana for Zagreb, and we do not feel comfortable in this regard. Or we go across Lupoglav where the passengers are disembarking on the buses, drive to Rijeka then towards Zagreb with that famous railway track. So I think that we should also look at this strategy in exactly the direction that I think it is extremely potent and that it can bring a lot of good not only Istria but in the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44441	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44442	Comrade Kleman, I'd agree with you. And certainly what you said about Istria with its tourism, economic potential, and of course that the triba implement into this system of railways. But it needs a strategy obviously. Now maybe at this point, it's better if you don't. The way he is in Slavonia, the way he is, I'm not seriously telling you. It's a disaster. So, the strategic triba connects. It's a shame that you're going to Slovenia, that you have to go to another country to get to the capital. The fact is, that's how much of us have the possibility of a merger. It's the port of Rijeka. I think that part of the triba connects, it would be some kind of hub and it is Croatian interest – sea, ports, railways, transport, tourism. All these branches triba implement with one quality strategy, quality trains, quality infrastructure, not that. I mean really adventure to ride with not even touristic, but adventure tourism can develop if this kind of infrastructure remains and is getting worse and worse. So since joining the EU, it's gotten worse and worse. This is a key issue why we have not implemented ourselves into the EU strategic position in some kind of negotiations. We know that we have loose diplomats, friends of Brussels to call it here from the pay phone, you can no longer listen to all the shines, the lights, everything wonderful, the stars. But the fact is, that's not what this is about. That's a fact. And we have to come up with a major profession together, that it's a secretary, I'm glad she's here, that part of the board tries to present that strategy if we do. Or it's enough to keep getting involved with these three companies, and let this all go to waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44443	Thank you. And now, finally, they're going to try to answer various questions that you've asked the Honorable Secretary of State, Nikola Brnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44444	Thank you, Mr. President. So, the first part of being Mr. Žagar's esteemed representative, the business plan is therefore adopted according to the new meaning according to the directive, the business plan must now be adopted every 5 years, i.e. every 5 years, the existing plan, which must be within the framework of the contract on construction, infrastructure planning, and that is, must be based on the national infrastructure building programme. And we have now and in the ministry handed over that request, to revise this national plan, because we need it to be, the original and basic document, and then the business plan, which has not been done so far, means that the five-year plan worked. And it is through this law that we will have to have this five-year plan, which must be in line with the Ministry of Finance, which means he is still telling us what strategic guidelines, investments, where modernization will be, in which way he maintains, means exactly all of these points through which we have now touched, which is why the state of rail infrastructure and travel times, everything that affects exactly, the regular maintenance, the very railways themselves, means what needs to be understood, because HZ infrastructure, is not a construction company, but it is a transport company that primarily serves transport, transport of passengers and freight. And most importantly, through this segment must be developed, therefore, and that is why it is a good part of the concept of the business plan, which must give us guidance for future and maintenance, future strategic investment and guidance for further. As far as further development is concerned, as Mr Cosic said, therefore, about whether to go in the direction of holding, in which way, since we know that, according to the current directive, all three societies have been divided. To announce immediately, it will move automatically after this in an amendment to this law, according to Direct 2370/16 which clearly tells us how the common market is and which just allows us all these possibilities for some kind of holding or further way we will organise these societies, that is, how we will round them up and how they can have a common one strategy. That we don't have, as it has been so far, that we have double societies that have each strategy, instead of one united, so we'll see in that direction. And so, this very directive, so as soon as we move on with this, we end up with this law, we're going into harmonisation of the law with a new directive that will allow us a lot of things. Furthermore, as far as the strategy is concerned, we have a traffic development strategy in 2017-2030, which has now held an 8.7 public debate. We now have, is delivered opinions from different bodies from the body of the state administration, from county, cities, etc. which can give all theirs, meaning this is a public document published, so everyone can make their observations, once they have made comments, the comments will all be analysed. What are the remarks and which will be included in the strategy, which will be accepted, will be detailed, what will not, this will also be explained in detail. What I can tell you is that it is now clear in the strategy to point out the development of rail transport and rail infrastructure, when I say general and rail transport. As far as you're concerned, you mentioned, here I was trying to track everything you wrote, about directions. There are you... These are rail freight routes, corridors, which we were just last week and in Vienna, on the talks, starting new corridors, there are former pan-European corridors that have now become an integral part of the TNT network and the expansion of the network to 10 corridors, and my proposal was also to put the Vinkovci-Vukovar branch in there, precisely because of the connection to the Danube corridor and the networking, networking, railways integration of the internal waterway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the initiative is for Baltic and Adriatic, and we have launched this initiative. We are an integral part of the Mediterranean Corridor, so we have to fit into that part of the strategic and I say, what you're going to see is a strategy, a document is publicly available, opinions are now being collected. Therefore, the strategy is divided into objectives, specific objectives and measures to achieve these objectives. It's a document, or... how the European Commission is now solving and all other Member States are solving, so you don't have to write with a project, name and last name of a railway, or a particular important second project from internal navigation, but you are looking through the objectives and specific objectives that are inside, and here you believe the emphasis placed on the development of rail transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I say traffic, I mean transport and integrated transport of passengers, we also think about rail infrastructure itself. And as far as restructuring is concerned, you mentioned companies, the government has made the conclusion that as important as possible, the more urgent it goes into the restructuring of the companies themselves, and in this way it will improve the whole, the model and organisation of the companies that are now separated, and what counterpart Babic said about the vehicles, we have launched a vehicle procurement project, so that's 11 diesel motor and 12 electric vehicles, according to contracts that already are, we have 4 pieces of vehicle, here's a concrete number and the World Bank is funding, meaning 17.40 million euros and 12 pieces from EU funds with 62 million euros. Also, in addition to new trains, investments were planned in the existing rolling stock, and the source of funding is planned from Euro Fima, so the total amount of investment of 10.43m euros. So it also takes care of the restoration and modernisation of the rolling stock, which should answer that question, whether or not we will have a sufficient number of rolling stock to transport the passenger and cargo himself. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44445	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44446	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 107. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendment of the Committee. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 102 votes in favour and 32 votes against the passed Law on, pardon 32 abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44447	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, first reading, P.Z. No. 156 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered by the Parliament's dispatch. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Land Books. For the most part, the law includes amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of the land book and the process of individual transformation. The remaining provisions of the bill, which have been amended and complemented, relate to certain technical issues which were required by law, provided that we wish the system to be modernised and accelerated. The aim is to simplify and speed up business processes in land books as well as to introduce security in the legal traffic of real estate and protect property rights. By achieving the effectiveness of the land-based process, redefining and removing legal institutes that slow down the process, by increasing the number... of procedures through individual transformation and procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books, we will achieve greater harmonisation of land-book data and create assumptions for the transition to electronic business. In order to increase the number of procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books, and in the absence of the necessary capacity to carry out those proceedings in courts, some new solutions have been proposed to compensate for the lack of court officials in these proceedings. Following the above, the amendments to the Law on Land Books suggest that an authorised land and book reference may be carried out in court advisers and judges of the procedure for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books. At present, we are conducting 77 procedures for the establishment and restoration of land books while there is 91 catastrian municipalities waiting for the establishment or renewal of land books. The reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws is, among other things, the dynamicity of changes in the land-to-book system, above all, in the business processes in the organisation of work based on new IT solutions, and the new business processes, the organisation of work and IT were necessary to legally define them in order to be applied in new legal transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44449	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44450	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Well, of course, I personally welcome this legislative proposal because I think that all the shifts and all the better-quality solutions on these topics are welcome and fall to fertile soil. On this occasion, I want to highlight a problem that often brakers in development especially in my neighborhood. It is about land registers which are out of force, i.e. inconsistencies of land registers and cadastrian registers or data. Here is specifically in the area of the Ogulin Land Book Department until recently out of force was as much as 17 of the 34 land books, meaning round 50%. Today, this situation is somewhat better, but 12 land books are still out of force. And this is exactly the situation on the ground that makes it difficult for us to make economic development and growth more difficult for us, because when certain investors who are willing to invest in the development of any primary agricultural production, whether certain industrial production, and when they can choose between areas that have solved property legal relations and those that do not have such a case, they generally decide on those first and our end is bypassed by a wide port. It is a similar situation with locals who, whenever they want to round up their agricultural areas for primary agricultural production or want to apply to some European funds, support or incentives, encounters a number of problems. That's why I'm particularly interested in two things if he might give me an answer. In the first row, whether there is a defined dynamic of taking care of land books or whether we can know indicatively when to open or start those land books that are currently out of force. And secondly, in line with that, can you also tell us indicatively when we can expect to collect land-based and cadastrian data in those areas where the books are in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44451	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed secretary, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44452	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor. We're trying to speed up the process in dynamics as soon as possible. We'll know by autumn, this is the first reading of this bill, so it's not just about the technologies we want to introduce into the process, it's about human capacities. We are unfortunately limited by financial means, so for now we are covering ourselves with a system of employees within the Ministry of Justice and the deployment of people working in the system. But when we have a complete picture of the financial structure and our desire to do this by the fall of October, we will have more concrete data. But I'm saying, now it's our job to open this 91 catastrian community, and these 77 that have been launched will go according to the current law because we can't begin to put this procedure into this new legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44453	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first will be the Club of Independent Representatives of HSU on behalf of which will speak the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44454	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. It's about the law basic law of '96. the years so you have opportunities there and transitional and final provisions to see how many times it has been changed and how many times this law has experienced changes. Since '96. until 2017, so many things have happened in Croatia these 21 years. I always commend the ministry when it decides to go in two readings because in two readings we have an opportunity to discuss and define certain things, so it is extremely good, but this law also opens up the problem that we have in Croatia. We in Croatia have a problem that doesn't last since yesterday that lasts long, it's a problem of catastrophe and grantovnica. And in the light of the law, the promoter also said one fact, and that so far, regardless of what we've been working on, with about 5% of the catastra and land books being harmonised, and this 5% has been harmonised over a period of 14 years, and that means that everything would be done for another 266 years, if, say, in 2014, in 2017, something else was done maybe 265 years, and that's the situation we have. This situation we have is not a coincidence because Croatia is one of the few countries where the catastre was particularly led and the grantovnica was particularly run. And we shouldn't forget the processes we've had. So when it comes to garter and when you take a historian in the garter, you see that the property was basically not listed there. And when it comes to the city of Zagreb and when you have the street Pisavlje, it is a street that leads from Sava to Television and when you take the grantovnica they are still old grant owners and nothing has changed there. The idea is some countries have been through the process uniting the cadastre and the garland. What each of us for his real estate met with both process and process, so when you have a cadastre, a cadastre other than the shape and size of a building particle or any cadastrian particle, it also leads to that property sheet. From the possession list you have the state of culture and you have the one who owns it, and the land books, i.e. the gruntovnica runs the property. I appreciate the effort that has been made through this amendment and the addition of the law. This effort has been made for reasons that different types of harmonisation can be done for one grant particle, or for one particle, and that corrections can be made in land books. Because what we've had and what's been our problem the whole time is next. I'll try to describe it in plastic. The Catastre is doing what they used to do and when you take some old laws why they were in charge of geodetics, the geodetics were actually in charge of defining the shapes and sizes of particles. In this case, Croatia has two catastras, one is Austrian and the other is Italian, and there is already a difference and in different ways is run. And so those who were dealing with the granite solved the property. And it's been there since '45. By the '94s, '95s, everything was actually recorded in the catastrophe. They all forgot on the garter, eventually things that were supposed to be enrolled in the garter. Back in '94, '95. We started taking care of it, and we're exactly where we are. Among other things, there was another project still in effect where the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, i.e. the state geodetic administration, the World Bank of Unity project, combined. And there was also this ZIS project that was a lot of effort, but this project is good when you have two accurate data then and the result is the following exact data. But if you have one condition in the catastro, not to mention when it comes to the size of the particle, and the other state in the garland, then from two incorrect data you get, of course, incorrect information. Here, the amendments and the additions to the laws speak of the fact that there can be real alignment for each particle. So far, you've done it the following way. There are 3600 catastrian municipalities in Croatia. And now you start shooting one catastrian community and you shoot everything and the construction area and the agricultural area. And then it's done, of course it's ordered to have the lab and the lab run for three, four years, five, for exposure, the exhibitions lasts again a year, two, and then when you start to spend it in a cadastre and grantovnica you get to what? By the time that year, two of them changed the condition that was recorded, that what was spent by the cadastre could no longer be spent in the garnery and you're experiencing great problems. Of course you have two options for solving these problems. One of the options of solving is systematic so that you solve the part by part of the country and one solution is individual. We've been standing up for the systematic for a long time, and I personally think that when you find yourself in front of such a big problem that you should give the opportunity to solve yourself individually. Similarly, Croatia has one 5.5% building area, a total of about 7% of the planned construction area, and we advocated that first and foremost should be connected to the construction area because they are where the investments are located, or where the investments are to be made. These amendments and amendments to the law are a good step forward because they allow for the creation of books by accelerated procedures. In doing so, we must not forget that we have part of Croatia where our land books are burned, especially in the area of Slavonia, in the area which was by, which was just returned in '95. that these land books were both burned and alienated. A lot of land books in the Dalmatian Zagora. This provides an opportunity to establish land books for a simple reason. I mean the question that we all have to ask together, which investor will come to Croatia to invest, when he takes any company and when he tells him, you get me out of the land papers and he takes out one cadastre data, one property situation in the cataster, another state in the garter, on the ground, a situation that doesn't correspond to both the catastro and the grantine, but a third state, what will that serious investor say? They'll say you can handle it. And what are we going to answer? 5% of Croatia has been taken care of in 14 years, and it takes another 250 years to fix it. That's the answer that comes from this. I really think this is a step forward and these changes and additions are good because they're a step forward. It also seems to me to my experience that I have with the land that we are matured for another situation. In doing so, I don't think that we should physically unite the cadastre and the garter, but I think that everyone should run their part of the job, that colleagues in the catastro really need to do land recording, that colleagues who work in the garter really should do everything about property. It is not even questionable whether it is in one or two places what we seek, we seek e-Croatia, we seek to make the data available to everyone, of course and publicly, but also what is important, it is important to do one procedure. We have your next situation now. You have a problem in the catastro and now you start solving the problem in the cataster, order a geodetic, geodetic elaborate, that is, a project that is needed, and then he does his administrative procedure. And then this administrative procedure takes, it takes, it takes, it ends, you get the solution, your neighbors complain about the solution, and here you are for 4.5 years, and you've solved it. And just like that, you thought you'd solved everything, from the cadastre you'd head to the garter shop, and there goes the story over and over again. These amendments and additions to the law provide the possibility of individual cases, giving the possibility of faster cases, allowing joint exhibitions to be for the cadastre and the grantovnica even though no one has ever prevented it, and allowing certain things to be done by the referents. And I think it's absolutely good, and in relation to that, there are these provisions of the article that speak in certain situations about how it's done. But this is just one little change, I think we're ready, and that's also the government's reconstruction that has been announced, for one law that will define both the cadastre and the grantine and what's most important, for one procedure. So it's less important whether it's in two places because you're going to do it very quickly and it's always close to each other, but it's important that we don't accumulate administrative procedures, we don't have a lot of administrative procedures, we have one. And of course, that interest should be where the country is being resolved or the country's interest should be what is planned for the construction area because we are expecting investment and we expect investment. We in Croatia, I can only mention to you the example we had, which showed Croatia in a bad way, or showed a country that still doesn't care about its land, is an example of Mljet. On Mljet, exactly this happened that because of the disorderly situation in the cataster, grantovnica, ownership of the municipality of Mljet sold the land, so that it could not sell the municipalities but could sell the state, and of course there was a picture of Croatia, an ugly picture of the investment. There's no one in this assembly, whether they're sitting centrally, on the left or on the right, who won't stand up for investment. We can only attract investment if we are serious and responsible. And we can only attract if we have land-related regulations so that the land-free situation can be resolved quickly. These changes and additions, it's just one drop in the sea. But okay, let's take it one step at a time and it'll be a step forward, but we need to solve it systematically. Examples show everything, we're all on the highway, and we know the one following a service object that has a scradin view. Once you enter the garland, there's still an old owner. And that owner is a matter of days, can come nicely, put a ramp and tell my company, this is my land. To him it was land and paid, and the whole process was to be done, done, but it wasn't done in the catastro and it wasn't done in the garland. When you take the cadastre, there's still a little bit of a solution, but it's not until the end, but when you take the garter, there's still former owners, and it's not owned by the Republic of Croatia. So this is one of the laws on which you can see exactly what our condition is, this is one step because it gives you the opportunity to go with all the measurements, gives you the possibility to define land books where they are not or are not destroyed, or we don't own them at all, gives you the possibility that something faster needs to be solved, gives you the possibility of a single process, but it's only one part of it. I think that we are also clear to say that we are ready for a full reform related to the cadastre and the gruntovnica, and that full reform must be defined by one law. ZIS is a good program, it's a great program, but it's a program that with two exact data you get the following exact information. For incorrect information, no. This shows another fact that we've been pointing out and we're going to point out. When it was the Law on Local Taxes, then we pointed to the problem of real estate tax. My people, we don't have any real estate, and I'm talking about the building, and it's a matter of even implementing that law, but it's going to be a subject for another time. The club of independent MPs still I hope, for a short time, and HSU will support this law in the first reading, and we think that this should go because it is a step forward, but it is indeed an appeal from this place, sitting together the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning and trying to get to one law in a way that we have one procedure to solve the problems we have in the cadastre and garnery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44455	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44456	My colleague, the law makes some moves, but if it's going to work out like this in 260 years, you'd say it should be settled. They're big steps. The fact that you gave a good example in Dalmatinska Zagora, of the Austro-Hungarian are the meanings of the books of the Catastrian and the gruntovnica, and there are the people who own hundreds, the hundredth part of the 30th. That's amazing how we're gonna handle it now. It's a problem, so on the ground, the law gives us some steps, it encourages us, maybe it's a positive law, you're a professional, it's certainly a step forward, but it's in reality how to solve these particles that are weaned, that people can't even use in space at all, they can't even use agriculture anymore because of a large number of owners, let alone some investment or spatial arrangement in a way that would allow it to be built land. Then that's one huge problem, and that's our administration, which is, well, not only in Croatia, but before, meaning from Austria, nothing has moved. How do you feel that these laws can be moved faster and how can this be achieved on the ground so that people can invest in their places to stay alive... I can't just build myself houses, so they have to leave the young people from their villages, their places, it's a key problem for the development of mainly these rural areas, and it really needs to be done, but in reality it should be applied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44457	Replication response, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44458	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bull, we really do have what's important to say, two cadavers. One cadastre is austro-Hungarian, the other is Italian. Let's say the Austro-Hungarian cadastre, you have the same particle of land and home, and the Italian catastra defines it differently. And indeed, there, somewhere back in the '45s, so that 50, 60-year-olds weren't keeping track and they weren't signing up on their property, and that's a fact. Even some desert debates didn't sign up. They didn't sign up for the simple reason that at one point it was even financially expensive for people. And we're sitting where we are today and we're trying to get out of it in different ways. But I'm sure of one thing, which is that it should be one of the major reforms, one of the great projects of the state, and it has to be this unique law, a unique procedure and try to fix, let's fix up the construction area and have it done. By knowing that there are some when it comes to real estate that I mentioned, there are some municipalities that have financed some things themselves for the simple reason that it returned to them at the same time. The moment they financed the new footage of the special property, they charged a municipal fee, it turned out that their contribution to the municipal fee increased by 70 to 80% because they saw the result at the same time. But not everyone can. And we need to be aware that out of 556 municipalities and cities, not everyone can. We can't leave it to them, but the state needs to take care of it. And it needs to be taken care of in a way that he realizes that it's a big project, that we get into that project and that we know that it has to last 4, 5, 6 years. But it's possible to do that, because this is the way we've done it for two and a half centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44459	Thank you, too. In front of the club of HNS representative Mr. Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44460	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HNS Club will certainly support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Land Books. First of all, as the proposer stated, that is, the proposing representative cited the problem identified in the practices in the land books in a way that ensures, first of all, faster implementation. It also respects the progress of technology and electronic systems, and enables them to be applied in land books, and sets out preconditions for settling the differences between catasters and land books. What I would like to point out here certainly is that this is primarily one specific framework that requires further process development and, above all, people involved in this process. In fact, what is important to change this law is that, now, along with the advisers and judges of the individual, it also enables authorised referents, land-booked referents, as well as those who are not authorized to act on matters which should certainly speed up the decision-making procedures because we know from practice that due to certain statistical requirements, judges first and foremost resolve certain procedures from the cases of succession while those who are a little longer on the side. But what he predicted and the legislator wrote that no specific funds were provided. I would certainly like here to maybe find the funds to be found here in order to make sure that these are the same references, but also to the whole staff that we had and a certain debate on the board provided the means to really increase the number of people working on solving the cases themselves. Of course, there is also a question of different case-laws regarding the object itself, i.e. complaints of such solutions, while individual courts resolve certain objections in the first instance with the same judge who has reached the solution. Some immediately send it to a second-degree court, while some courts and appeals, only complaints are sent to another stage, while some courts and appeals are immediately sent to a second-degree court. Of course, it extends the process itself. Of course, first and foremost, it is necessary to set priorities and joint action by catastras and land books to launch intensive coordination and harmonisation of the situation resulting from the accumulation over decades as we have had the opportunity to hear here, and of course this is one sure law that is on that track and should continue to develop it and ensure its full application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44461	Thank you, too. And now in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44462	My colleagues and colleagues, that means okay. The introduction of the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Any change for the better, and this is certainly a change for the better is a good thing. Is she gonna solve the problem? He won't. Shall we approach the solution? We will, but I'm just afraid of a little step. If we're looking at it alone, so I'm going to say a few technical things, then I'm going to say some things that I think we should say. First of all, I think 11 amendments to the law, maybe I'm wrong 10 or 11 and I'm sure the law is already mature enough to actually think about strategically where we want to go. Because when you change something 10 times then that means we're going a little bit, we're moving, we're moving a step by step, but we don't have a strategic direction. Secondly, I'm going to put this in your favor as an observation, and I'd like to ask that the second reading be corrected. So we're talking about 5% compliance from 2000 to 2014. We are now half of 2017. So let's go for a second reading of the ministry to give us the information three years of fresh so let's see how much, in those three-years, anything has moved for three-and-a-half years, so let's see where we are. Because he's coming out now with a proposal that's got data from 2014. It's not good. So, it should, it just needs to, this is one suggestion that... Second, this is purely technical. You have article 6(6), so you have the procedure of establishing and restoring land books will be implemented if the Land Court and the body responsible for the catastran of the institution to better implement it. I'm paraphrasing now. My experience is when you put two bodies one works by, actually by administrative procedure, the other is in a fateful way to evaluate together what they will and how they will never judge. And there's a problem, and I think there should be a clear definition of who's going to decide here and there. Because here we have some kind of parallel jurisdiction that will be competitive and that can actually lead to a blockade. Just to think about it. Article 12(5), we're actually talking about strategic definition now, and I'm going to highlight it here as technical. We say, if it is not possible to determine the owner, the Republic of Croatia will sign up. Do we want to enter the Republic of Croatia or maybe the local self-government unit? That's one strategic thing. So far, we've been writing down the Republic of Croatia as a rule. There's this problem, what counterpart Mrak-Taritash said about Mljet. That's it. This was the first place the municipality signed in, so the Republic of Croatia, because the regulation had changed. It wasn't even a problem in the land book catastro, it was a change of law. Whether we want to go to it here or maybe we want to start putting down on local self-government, which is on the ground, which knows, which might put these properties in a better function. One thing to think about, but she's not just for you, she's general for us as Parliamentarians. So, strategically, do we want what doesn't belong to the owner to go to the Republic, and unfortunately so far, the Republic has shown that it's not good to worry about it or we're going to go down to local self-government. I'm about to land on local self-government. So let's get given, cities, municipalities to manage these properties. As much as it's gonna be, I don't know, but it could be a good move. So, a whole series of other things, we've discussed transitional and final provisions today, so I'm not going to repeat here, but that's what we said on the board, so I would suggest that we examine the possibility that the provision of this law applies to the procedures that are under way, if that didn't slow them down. Because we have a ratio of 70 procedures in progress, 90 is waiting, so if these 70 can speed it up, what we talked about today. And that's something I wanted to point out here as things that concern the law itself. But in principle she was saying here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash and others were talking about it, whatever we're doing, while we're going to have two parallel, equivalent proceedings, one of which is judicial and the other is administrative, we're not going to move. And there's no solution. I know, some advocate the advantage of a catastra, some advocate the advantage of a land book, and I will always, but maybe because I'm legally determined, define the advantage of a land book. Why? Because in the land book, property is solved. And a traditional cadastre should be a technical service and support to it, because only in the land book can you design property, these are the things that matter. Of course, you can't do that if you haven't determined the land and established the culture, etc. But I don't think it would be good if it went to the creation of some kind of administrative agency, where this would get out of the courts. So, I think it can stay in the courts, but in a way that the cadastre is the technical service of the garnery. Then, the ZIS that is actually behind this, it is a common information system and it can come up with full expression and can actually come up with a relatively fast solution. But I repeat, as long as they're court proceedings and administrative parallels and until we know which is, conditionally, more important, we won't move. What the law gives is excellent, it is also an opportunity to pair data according to this common information system, and it is a tremendously important step. And I believe, so according to the data that we did and the calculations, two years ago, this percentage of 5%, is going to jump over 60% when that data mates. I think we were at about 67%, but you'll figure it out and you'll see. Why? Because you've got, like, a whole series of things that block your records. One, I don't know, Peter Square, King Kresimir 4, says in the garret shop, the cataster says Kreshimer's Square. It's the same thing, but it can't match. And you have to change and you have to withdraw the procedure. And this law will give you the opportunity to get as far as I can, so we thought these things would be technically solved and speeded up. Where there's a slight deviation in the land, so why block everything if it's a slight deviation. It's something we can pair up again. So wherever we can remove the problem, in a way to correct that kind of technical deviation, that's a great thing. Because the goal is to reach some 10% of the cases that are controversial. Slow or catastrian, land-based book, and then they can get rid of it. As long as it's 90%, it can't be solved. So our actions, as we have, they can deal with individual objects, they can't deal with this kind of mass. And that's what's important and what can be an important step. And that's why this law gives you exactly the opportunity to do it. And that's a very good thing, I'm just saying, we have to use it. Next thing you know, we need to think about it, and then I stood up for it, we had a legalization agency, why don't we have a special body that's going to do these procedures. That's what I'm going back to who's going to work, who won't. But you're going to meet the next one very quickly in the implementation, which is that wages can only go out of the state budget. And then what happens. You have a very rich municipality, it doesn't matter to Opatija, who's willing to fund it all yourself, but you can't take it, you can't take it, because they can only pay for the daily, they can only buy computers, etc., but I can't pay for the work of these people. It just doesn't work, because they're civil servants and they can't be paid outside. And you have a big problem here, too, because it would be extremely good, if you found a way, if these municipalities could finance what they have, and then those funds that are never enough, you could point at those municipalities that don't really have enough. And so you come up with some alignment and you can take a step. Because this is how it is now, it's not good. That's why the 90 are waiting. They're only waiting for money. And then you get the measurement done this year, the procedure starts in four years, and that measurement is no longer good. Money was dropped, local self-government dropped money or state in some cases, as a rule local self-government. So these are some things where we can and where I believe that we can also make a step forward through discussion and joint work because it is in everyone's interest. The earth will move forward when the land-marked state of whatever we're told is cleared. It is more organized than it was and all are good moves and we can all statistically prove that we as ministers have done a good job, but the fact is that neither our citizens nor those who want to invest are satisfied. Until they're satisfied we haven't done a good job, this House hasn't done a good job, the government isn't good, none. And there's one step we can try. Here are all the suggestions they are in the best interest of all, we certainly support in the first reading. I think it's good to have an extra debate now, there's time, there's time, it's summer, but still to make one quality step but to start strategically thinking about how we're going to connect these two procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44463	Thank you. We have a replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44464	Thank you very much. When we were in the same government together, we spent a lot of time talking about it and there are some things where we agreed, and I also think that it must be a procedure that is in courts for the simple reason that it is simpler and faster. But that's not the point. The theme is something you mentioned that is quite often mentioned in this assembly, which is decentralisation. This is one of the things that shows decentralisation. I absolutely think that where property cannot be determined that it should be owned by units of local self-government, not the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, because units will take better care of that property and it will be much more useful than when it is the Republic of Croatia. Equally when it comes to decentralisation, it's decentralisation to give someone a job and give them funds for the job. Likewise, when it comes to this project, there are municipalities and cities that are willing to do so financially, but also those who are not. So this is one of the things where we can talk about decentralisation because I'm sure we can agree and related to those units of local self-government that should be their property and that's one of the suggestions to the promoter that maybe think about it. However, among other things, you mentioned that this law provides the possibility of some minor changes, and since the name of one square in one other square will certainly be changed in the city of Zagreb, then thanks to this law, I suppose a cadastre and grantovnica will be able to be resolved more quickly because otherwise, there will be a real state of the name of the square, and another state of the catastrus, and I don't know which one will be in the garter, so this law will allow us to resolve it more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44465	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44466	Thank you very much. Whatever happened with changing the name of the square the truth will remain the same, which is that antifascism was absolutely good and that other absolute evil. So it can't be changed by name or anything else. I agree here and whoever's doing this wrong is doing it wrong at the expense of the Republic of Croatia and it will show up in time. But it's not a topic. Here and I agree completely with you, this is an opportunity for a different strategic thinking, which is why I said, it's one thing to talk about the law of this technical matter, but strategically. Let's start with that if we don't know whose property it is, whose property it is, let's give it to local self-government. Why RH? The Republic of Croatia has proven itself in all governments so far that it does not manage the property well. The local self-government of her citizens expect it. She's got a lot of weight, let's take a little step, a little step when we don't know whose it is. Let's give the local self-government. Let's do it as one shift in thought. Let's work this out together. That's something, it won't change much because that kind of property won't be much at the moment, but we're sending a different message, sending a message to local self-government, trying and working for some things, and you've got something of it. Because when we talk about decentralisation, that's the worst part, we give local self-government a lot of commitment, we don't give resources, and worst of all, we don't give a goal. And the goal must be that you circle something and that you can tell the citizens I've accomplished it, that we can live a better life. Here's one, but I know it's strategic, and what I'm talking about isn't going to be easy to get through if you decide because it's a different paradigm. So far we've all had one, let's talk about the other. Yeah, yeah, that's right, fellow you're saying I agree where it's new, and it's new and let's try to change it. Here's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44467	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Jelkovac in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44468	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to talk now after all the speakers, really much is said here and a lot of innovative and good suggestions for the future. But here's what I'm going to try to say in a few words. I'll try not to repeat myself. Therefore, the reform of land books and catastra has been carried out continuously for a long time as it is said and said, and in fact the goal is very clear, to establish a modern, efficient, transparent system of land-based and cadastrian data management in electronic form, which is for sure all the shifts that have taken place so far will have an impact on this, but all those who will, in the future, have an impact on the fact that the judiciary is more efficient, that we can get data faster and thus be all more expensive service to our citizens, and above all, to investors. What is important to say for this proposal is to amend and supplement the law so as to continue to reform land books and catastras in such a way that new legal instruments defined by the completion of the EU IPA grant project 2008 and IPA 2010 are implemented in the law. The completion of these projects is an open opportunity to establish digital business in all business processes of land and book law, and thus the need to regulate the entire legal framework of business in land and book courts. A significant newspaper is the possibility of individual reshaping the land book without the need to carry out long-term and expensive cadastrian measurements, which is very positive. The creation of a legal framework for dealing with the individual transformation of land books and catasters and the implementation of IT applications of business processes into the land library system is expected to actually bring together land-based literary and cadastrian data within a shorter period of time. What is also important, apart from faster processes, will be financial savings. The paper is also to determine the authorised land-based library reference, to participate independently in the process of restoring and supplementing the land-based book by drawing up land-based book cartridges without the need for these proceedings to be conducted by judges or judicial advisers who are otherwise insufficient for these types of proceedings and thus to speed up the solution of all pending proceedings. The implementation of this law is not expected to require additional financial resources. And what I want to say to the HDZ club will support these bill proposals but I also agree with everything that has been proposed here during the debate as some new solution. Here, since I also come from local self-government where I've worked for 10 years, I think it would be really good to consider more simple jurisdiction over the management of property that is sometimes unknown, so it's not even listed on it, to simply trust and to worry about local self-government because it will probably be faster and more efficient in putting such property into function than the state can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44469	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Babic, has a short line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44470	I apologize for what I have to do, but all I have to do is react to this because, first of all, I would like to thank the esteemed vice president on the given replica. Dear Mrs. Jelkovac, among other things, you said you were expected to coordinate land-based library data and come from local self-government. I just want to remind you of one thing, this is certainly good, I welcome this law for investment, it must be necessary and necessary and everyone here has welcomed it today, but let's say I come from Imotska krajina where you have certain municipalities of the type Zagvozd, like Prologzac in which there are no land books at all. So I've written and asked you a representative question a few times, and we've asked it in the ministry, and I think Mrs. Dark Taritash was at the time. I remember very well that we were looking for certain things about these lands, they don't have land books at all. And I think you should take care of that, too. That's what I was obliged to say for both of them and for that representative issue, and I hope the ministry will think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44471	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44472	My dear colleague, I accept what you've said, and I do know that given the diversity of our units of local self-government and problems are different. However, I come from the city of Karlovac where we have done a lot of work on this problem of taking care of land books and cadastrian data and a lot of it has been financed from funds. So here, I know the problems are different, but I think we all need to put those really good examples of practice in a priority way so that in these units that have problems, they speed up and step up processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44473	Thank you, too. Finally, the secretary of state, Mr Salapic, will address eventually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. I thank Mrs. Anki Mrak-Taritash, Mr. Milenić, Maria Jelkovac and Mr. Curaj for everything we discussed today and on the Justice Committee, but also from your discussions not to repeat, there is much being said. So, we have until autumn, all of these constructive suggestions will be considered. Of course the guidelines are also dependent on the entire vision of the government's policy but what we agree on is that the questions will certainly be opened, the process we try to speed up. I was curious as to why only this 5% when Mrs. Mrak-Taritash spoke, because the database only entered a completely restored Catastrian municipality and what is going to be a single transformation is that we can allow the enrollment of the cadastre would be about 30%. So some vision by 2020 if we succeed with these individual transformation procedures, it could be up to 50%, which would be a great success compared to the whole law intensity and these other guidelines that we want to implement together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44475	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the conditions, that means Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44476	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books, first reading, P.Z. No. 156. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 133 votes in favour and one abstentioned conclusion is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44477	The following item of the agenda is: - Report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2015; Reporter of the Act is Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 6. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. The material was delivered to everyone. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have an annual report on the situation in the penitentiary and prisons in 2015. During 2015, the trend of reducing the total number of prisoners started in 2011. If we compare 2011 and 2015, it can be concluded that in 2015 the total number of prisoners on December 31st compared to the total number of prisoners on the same day 2011 was reduced by one third and expressed by a percentage of about 33.91% of prisoners. On 31.12.2015, there were 3 thousand 341 prisoners in the prison system, all legal status in relation to the capacity of 3 thousand 900 seats, which is about 85.66%. During 2015, the prison sentence was held by 5 thousand 141 prisoners representing 44% of the total number of prison population in 2015 in the prison system. Compared to 2014, during which the fine was sustained by 6 thousand 68 prisoners, there were about 15% lower in 2015. In 2015, there were a total of 2525 persons in the status of offenders, of whom 507 prisoners who were sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings. 1869 prisoners who were sentenced to fines were replaced with prison sentences and 149 persons who were given detention in a misdemeanour procedure compared to the previous year of 1034 inmates. The security situation in the prison system is estimated to be good. With the relatively favourable ratio of officers and prisoners, who on 31 December 2015 amounted to 2.14 prisoners to one judicial police officer and recorded a total reduction of incident situations with a slight change in individual categories of incidents. In 2015, a total of 216 complaints and 15 complaints were lodged in the central office compared to the previous years. The prisoner's complaints were primarily about prison accommodation conditions, 30 complaints, health care, 50 complaints, officers' treatment, 92 complaints, violations of other human rights, 23, court decisions, DORH, notices and other decisions, 21 complaints. The basic complaints concerned only the conditions of accommodation. With the responsibility of state resources and resources entrusted to us, by rationalising a whole series of procedures, but at the same time putting in the first plan of the tasks we have to fulfil, we managed to reduce the outstanding awareness obligations during 2015 by 58.8% and are the ratios to 2014 that were raised, compared to 2014. 15 million 511 thousand kuna, in 2015 reduced to 6 million 373 thousand 165 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44479	Thank you, too. Does anyone on behalf of the board want to take the word of the Justice Board and the Committee on Gender Equality? No, I don't. In front of the SDP club, Mr Orsat Milenic. Replica, I didn't see it. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44480	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Too serious a subject, and I'm sorry what changes the agenda from minute to minute, no, day to day, but from minute to minute. I'm interested in secretary how much the prisoner is singled out by the Republic of Croatia or local self-government, and what are the conditions for you in the food prisons, and how much is on the daily basis, do you have a calculation and who pays it, how is it organised? Who participates, local self-government if it's the area of these local counties, I'm interested in how the system is tied up and is it transparent that money is being paid and invested right in prisoners in their better living conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44481	What? In the end. Thank you. Mr. Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so what do you say? It's a great report. So in 2015, I was a minister, so the report can't get any better. As you can see, I'm glad all the indicators are there compared to four years ago, and this is one summary of my work in four years, so I'm going to privatize it, I didn't put it on the agenda. We were really like a country that had over 5,000 prisoners and we were exposed to very, very sharp criticisms and the Council of Europe and a whole series of other control mechanisms that came to the ground, which on some 3,000 600, 500 is probably now a number, 3 and 400, which means that the coverage is about 80%. 80%. Of course there's a problem and that's what needs to be said. The problem is that there are plenty of open spaces and very little indoors. And that's something the ministry needs to do and change in perspective. I'm glad here that you're also finding that these debts that were large, were reduced to actually one manageable amount, so what do you say? The SDP club will support the report with pleasure. I'm here now to say one criticism that doesn't go to you because you're new, doesn't go to you either, Vice President, and you're new, but the fact is that in July... Yeah, yeah, new in that place. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That in July 2017 we are discussing a report for 2015 and that is completely pointless. I was joking here because I was saying it was in my time and it's irrelevant, but it's totally pointless. This report after a year and a half in some kind of event dynamic, things have changed so much that there's really nothing to discuss. You gave it to us, we can look at it, but after a year and a half, I would like to appeal to all of us here, now to you, the ruling one, I'm not saying that it wasn't in and out of our time, so I say, at all, political culture in Croatia, that the reports go really until the third month for last year, and that we here in the Parliament discuss them. And then that makes sense. It makes sense and then through our parliamentary debate we can point to some things, connect logically to some of the changes you're going to propose, and connect to the budget. And I'll be here even though I'm not set up, so you pay Mr. Bulj, the prisoners, because it's all in the budget, there's no local self-government, so the state budget I don't know how much is the amount, that's what my colleague Salapic will tell you, but we've voted here and as much as we say, they have. And the food isn't bad, I've tried it, everywhere I've been, it's not bad, at least what they give the ministers, and now what they give there, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44483	Thank you, too. Mr. Cresho Whiteman in front of the HSS. He's gone? He's losing his right to debate. And now Mrs. Strenja-Linic. Here you are in front of the Most, the bridge club of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'll say a few words anyway about this 2015 report. There are some things to talk about. So we have a really detailed report on the state and operation of the penitentiary and prison for 2015. All aspects of the criminal sanctions enforcement system are explained in detail and there are also difficulties that this system is going through on a daily basis. So five years ago, in prisons that had 3351 seats, there were as many as 5165 prisoners, while in 2015 there were 1859 prisoners less in prisons with 549 seats. So, the situation is improved. Jobs of execution of prison sentences are of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. Of the other security factors in a technical sense, it is especially necessary to highlight still this spatial transfer of prison, sub-capacitation of prisons, architectural shortages of penitentiary and a lack of special vehicles for the transport of prisoners, the inability to work on which prisoners complain within the penitentiary especially those to whom families cannot send some money. Only occasionally do they receive one-time social assistance, a lack of special health care that they must apply for. It is particularly an objection that they apply for a review of specialists today, so if this is not done today, then they must re-apply tomorrow as if from today until tomorrow this medical difficulty has ceased, and many other requirements that the prisoners have made in their complaints which, in fact, when you follow the Attorney General's report, the D.A., the D.A. for Persons with Disabilities, the D.A.'s Office for Children and Gender Equality may and through their reports see in fact what the shortcomings of what they actually saw within the prison system are, and what is actually mentioned only marginally in this report. But the absolute biggest security problem is the lack of judicial officers. On 31st December 2015, the Administration of the Prison System in the Structural Units provided for jobs with a systematicized number of 3900 perpetrators, meaning almost 4000 and were filled with 2600 39 employees, which is 1300 less. So one-third of the executioner is less than how systematic it is. This data actually results in all the problems of this system, and in fact, this situation has not been significantly improved so far. The 2016 report is actually just being produced. During 2015, 11500 prisoners passed through the prison system in Croatia, 94% of them men. Of course, they're more perpetrators. They know the crimes and 5% and 47 women. During 2015, the trend of reducing the total number of prisoners that started in 2011. In the period since 2010, when overcrowding has reached the highest level, a constant decline in the number of prisoners is recorded. This was primarily influenced by changes in the Criminal Procedure Act related to restrictions on the duration of the prison investigation, changes in the Penal Code relating to the possibility of giving alternative penalties, the operation of the probation service in an increasing range and in the entire country, and to a certain extent and a slight increase in the conditional part of the sentence and early release of prisoners. So, due to the failure of systematicised jobs in the prisoner health care departments, I will now tell you one fact, which is that the union of judicial employees, means the official addressed to the Croatian medical chamber with a particular problem that because there is not enough medical staff at the weekend, means medical technicians who are free because they do not have organised duty leave the division of therapy to judicial officials and therefore they are in a situation to perform something that is not in their job description, nor are they trained for that, and they are sharing therapy that is one largely, largely active medications, sedatives, antidepressants, antipsychotics who actually after they share very potential entry and become like otherwise, such therapies in prisons are a potential and payment tool. Because you need to know that a single needle is about 300 to 400 kuna is its price in prison when it must be shared. And there's something I'd like to say about addicts. The addicts are a big problem in our prisons. Therefore, drug addicts, drug abusers, or drug addicts, constitute one of the most numerous, and the most demanding treatment and safety groups of prisoners. The complexity of this group is reflected above all in the fact that addiction is directly linked to the conduct of criminal acts, and that in this group the rate of relapses is higher than in the general prison population. They are more prone to risk behavior in prison than the rest of the prison population, only injury, attempts at suicide, conflicts with other prisoners, attempts at drug intake and greater health problems. So they're positive for hepatitis, they're also positive for HIV, and they're generally worse off. Although on average addicts are younger than the rest of the prison population. During 2015, a total of 1618 prisoners were present in the prison system, which we can read from this report. 1618 drug addicts, which accounts for 13.98% of the total prison population in that year. So, from 11575. As of 2013, there has been a trend in reducing the number of drug addicts associated with the reduction of the total number of prisoners, but also with the entry into force of the new Penal Code of 1 January 2013 where the possession of drugs for their own troops has passed from criminal to criminal responsibility. Among the 508 drug addicts who were admitted to prison, juvenile prison or educational measures during 2015 in the educational institution of all 154 and 30%, respectively, are on their first sentence. What's he talking about? It speaks at a high rate of relapses in the addictive population, which amounts to almost 70%, 69.69 which directly indicates a lack of quality comprehensive programmes intended for these criminals. There's a lot of programs going on inside the prison. You could read that from the report. These programs continue through this year, but obviously something that is actually a sign that in that part we should certainly work more, and especially among this population, which will eventually, in fact, come into our healthcare system and social care system after this prison, because they will not be able to take care of themselves. But she'd like to tell me now about a good program inside our prison system, and that's the story of a prisoner as a parent. Therefore, the organisation of the Ministry of Justice, the Administration of the Prison System, the Ombudsmans for children and associations Parents in Action, RODA and with the support of the Committee on Justice, the president was not, in the small council of the Croatian Parliament on 14 June 2017, held a round table of development, networks and support for children whose parents are in prison and organisation as part of the campaign, crime is not mine, but punishment is nevertheless. Unfortunately, I was one parliamentary representative, and it was organized within the Parliament, not my crime, still my sentence, means about children whose parents are prisoners. The organisation of our committee estimates that about a million children are living in Europe today whose parents are in conflict with the law and are therefore separated from one or both parents who are in prison. Thus, these children are being punished for their parents ’ mistakes, often feeling marked, excluded, frightened, faced with a number of problems due to interruptions in their fathers and mothers, exposed to increased risk due to a number of negative influences. Both these children and their parents need support to cope more easily with the challenge. Recognizing these needs in the prison itself and hiring an expert to support them can mean a key life change. So, I would like to reiterate here that numerous researches have shown that regular and quality contact with the family contributes to better resociation of prisoners, and that due to proven positive influence, primary therapeutic factor and the most important criminal corrective measure, contact with the family should be considered. The estimates suggest that nearly 15,000 children in Croatia have one or both parents in prison. That's a big number. In 2014, when this project of the RODA Association began, the situation was very bad and the data said that more than 75% of the parents of prisoners, children do not visit them at all. But it's not about feelings of lack of emotion, lack of relationship, the problem is very common and in fact the most common was in lack of finance. So, if you have, we had a mother who was in prison and was the mother of five children and over six years she was in prison, no one of her only children came to visit her. After RODA started co-financing, it was a programme from European funds, after the association started with that program, all those children regularly began to visit their mother, even organised, and the first time they came and all those children suddenly saw it. Thus, during 2015, a total of 88075 visits to children are already recorded to parents who are on prison terms, prison sentences, and educational measures to refer to the educational institution. From that, the fathers received 82,000 visits. Therefore, a very large number of parents do not yet visit, there is an increase in the number of visits, which can actually be prescribed by the activities carried out, aimed at raising awareness of the need and importance of keeping in touch between parents and children, both prisoners themselves and prison system workers and other primary social care institutions, which can have an advisory and material impact on keeping in touch. So the best interest of a child is not the same for all children whose parents end up in prison. It all depends on the crime. So it already depends on each individual case and is special for each child. Although a parent’s stay in prison may be a short period of time in a child’s life, his influence can last much longer and therefore this is a public health problem in society. I said we're talking about 15,000 children in Croatia. It is necessary to collect information about these children, it is a duty for the media to strengthen awareness of them without the stigmatisation through sensitivity and accountability in reporting. The family is the most effective factor in the resociation of prisoners, so support for the child of the prisoner has long-term positive consequences in reducing repeat law violations and improving metal health. In strengthening awareness and professional approach, Croatia has made remarkable progress in recent years, which can also be an incentive to other countries in our environment. So we can set an example for these countries because we have indeed made a move in the last few years. Schools can be the ones that change the negative aspects of the child’s family situation, so they do not become another arena for Stigmatisation and discrimination. It is therefore necessary to develop funds, tools and guidelines for all working for children of prisoners, professionals in the field of justice of social care in prisons, police, schools, civil sector and parent associations. I thought there was something to be said about a good program. The program's got a lot of questions, just how long they've been going on. This is one program that was practically accepted by most of our prisons. What is a grudge and what can be seen from the report is that most prisons have very, very inadequate spaces, where children can be received. Some prisons had the possibility that only 10 minutes of phone calls could be given to a child within a week, a child lawyer warned. That's fixed after that. The spaces are inadequate, if a child is 14 years old, has treatment as well as an adult, so talks mostly only over the glass with a parent, and all some things should actually be thought, as far as it can have consequences on that child, because that child is not punished if his parent went to prison and for that reason, depends on what works he is there, stopped being a parent. I'd just like to say for a little while, the other day I mentioned something, so I've been informed about the home in Ivantz. I will talk about this in the next few days when we talk about the Ombudsman's report for children but I would like to say that we still need to know that children without adequate parental care or children without an escort of adults who come to our area, the asylum children are staying in 12 institutions in the area of the Republic of Croatia. 6 of these institutions are educational institutions for juvenile delinquents. So I checked, we've got up to 500 kids like that a year. At every moment in Croatia, 40, 50 to 60 such children are without the escort of adults who have come as asylum seekers to Croatia and they are staying in educational homes where children are delinquents, our children from Croatia. I believe it is absolutely unacceptable, 50 to 60 children have passed through the Ivanac home, 52 children are registered during one year, they are mostly there, but they are located in both Rijeka and Osijek and Sisak. So these are institutions where children with behavioral disorders are already placed there and the child of asylum seekers who are traumatized in the unknown speech area because of what is coming is absolutely unacceptable and that is something that belongs in this domain and what needs to be known and what is something that we need to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44485	Thank you. You have one replica, so you will have a chance to finish if you have something else to say after Mr Milenić which will give you the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you mentioned an insufficient number of prison personnel, but that's our agent's problem. So we've voted that budget that doesn't have enough people there because there's not enough to pay them. It's not the Ministry's problem maybe as much as the ministry is proposing, but I would now like to invite you and all of us who think it's a problem, we'll have a budget when we have it and let's take care of it. Because just talk about it, and when we get to the budget vote and raise our hand for a budget that doesn't allow for an increase in the number of people, here I am kind of at peace with that side today, so I'm going to refer to Mr. Shucker now for what he was talking about doing this morning, etc. It doesn't make sense. Here I'm talking now, the budget is where we can all test out. We want more prison staff, let's raise our hands, but then we'll take it somewhere else, and that's how it goes. So this isn't a criticism, this is just a loud thinking when we get a budget, we all remember what we stood for and raised our hands for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44487	Here you go, Mrs. Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44488	Well, look, the Bridge is on stage for as many as a year, a year and a half, we can't change everything. As what point comes here you say the same thing, this is 2015, we understand the problems that just turn out and show up in the right light. I believe that an adequate number of judicial officers is human not only to prisoners but also to themselves. They are either forced to work a judicial officer on 70 of them as long as they are in a department that is threatened and their safety cannot have overtime, their salaries are not adequate to what they are doing, I believe that redistributing within some of the jobs, and especially those not directly connected within the maintenance of the fine itself may also be possible within the system itself to find some internal reserve. If not, suggest and we'll see. Some things are obviously important and need to be fixed, but the Bridge is here, so we'll work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44489	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelkovac on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44490	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what a fellow 2015 report said. We're a little wondering how much sense it makes right now to debate it a lot, or what our discussion of what effects may have. But here we're going to try to highlight what's important from that report that's very extensive and exhaustive, so here I'm going to try to sum it up in short exposure. It is evident what has already been established that the prison population has decreased compared to 2014 and, overall, considering the situation in the system, it can be said that the system is stable, regulated in terms of respect for human rights of persons deprived of liberty, followed by cost reduction and rationalisation policies, but not at the expense of quality. The annual report contains basic indicators of the number of states and structures of prisoners, type and description of dealings with prisoners, number and structure of officials as well as in the financial operations of the Administration of the Prison System. It is significant to highlight the vision of the Administration of the Prison System, which is in accordance with the Penal Code of Penalty, which is that the main purpose of the execution of a prison with human conduct and respect for the dignity of a person who maintains the sentence of imprisonment and its training for life at large is in accordance with the law and social rules. The central office, 12 prisons, 8 prisons, including the prison hospital in Zagreb, 2 educational institutions, the Centre for Diagnostics in Zagreb and the Centre for Education. The new organisational structure has tried to give some areas greater importance by seizing into new organisational units, without increasing the number of management jobs. Thus, the Independent Service for preventive action of data collection, analysis and evaluation needed to ensure greater efficiency in preventive activities, while the Department for the Economy and Labour of Prisoners plays a role in preparing strategic guidelines, planning measures to improve the economic activities and work of prisoners. The security aspect is also very important and should be continuously promoted. The report shows that the system is also trying to improve through projects financed from European funds. It is also evident that prisoners are given three meals on a regular basis and for those inmates who work, a fourth meal is provided. It is also important to say that there is a possibility of different menus. Here I can say, but there is no colleagues of Bulja now that the average meal is 19.58kn and in fact the cost of costing all day, the average price seems to me to be 52 kuna. I can also say that during 2015, about 11,000 575 prisoners passed through the prison system and that 94.5% were men and only 5.47% were women. And it is significant that compared to 2014, the total number of prisoners is down 14.51%. During 2015, the prison sentence was sustained by 5 thousand 141 prisoners, down 15% from 2014. The largest group of prisoners endures a prison sentence of one to three years, followed by a three to five-year sentence and at least a prisoner endures the maximum sentence of 5 to 10 years. The educational structure of the prisoners, which is very interesting, shows that more than half of the prisoners with a high school degree are. In 2015, 43 prisoners were admitted to prison at a prison hospital in Zagreb and a security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment was imposed and the measure was applied to 71 employees during 2015. In fact, this data shows a trend in reducing the enforcement of the measure. At the end of 2015, 10.22% of less investigative prisoners were held in prison than in 2014 and most were for crimes against property, then for drug abuse-related crimes. And in the third place for crimes committed to, for crimes against life and the body. On 31.12.2015, a total of 106 non-Croatian citizens were present in the prison system. And it should also be pointed out that our system has good co-operation with embassies and consular offices. It is important to say that the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors is based on an individual programme of conduct, through individual work and work in smaller groups in accordance with the specific needs of minors, which is very important. In the case of minors, crimes against property also prevail. And it's important to say that half of them haven't completed their primary school and in 2015 neither of the minors had a high school which really speaks the same way as young people's structures. And what is significant is that we really need to go through the education system to try to give a lot to young people with behavioral problems. During 2015, 46 minors and all minors were included in education programmes. So there is this programme that is very important, an education programme, especially for minors, and it is important that it is implemented in the future, to insist on the implementation of this programme. With persons with disabilities who are in custody, special attention is also given to them, i.e. in the conditions they need as persons with special needs and seek to ensure conditions and in prison that their basic rights can be respected. It also states that since 2013, the number of prisoners, drug addicts, has been reduced steadily, and the system has treated 298 people in 2015. Also during 2015, 950 alcohol addicts were present in the system, which is in fact 8.21% of the total prison population, and this is actually a very large number because we know that such persons are quite often prone to and aggressive behaviour, which further requires greater efforts to establish a law sometimes in the prison system itself. It is also important to highlight efforts to make a step in the area of post-penal problems and to prevent criminal returns. In fact, there is a need to encourage, in my opinion, and greater cooperation between all institutions, which would certainly contribute to the reduction of re-admissions. The number of prisoners to a judicial officer is better than before, and it certainly contributes to making the system safer and that in 2015 there were fewer prison system fugitives than in earlier years. Here I have tried to highlight some of the things in this report that seemed important to me, I can say that this is really a big system and it is certain that we should try to find a way in the future to make it as efficient and as safe as possible and that more attention is being paid and protection of the fundamental human rights they have and persons deprived of liberty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44491	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Mrs. Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44492	So I'd like to recommend to you again that in addition to the report on the penitentiary, read all four attorneys' reports. So what you're saying in the report is these dry figures. What they say, though, because they had both unannounced and pre-announced visits to penitentiary and prisons and educational institutions, they get insight into what the right condition is, so you would know that it is prescribed and written in the report that each prisoner has the right to 3000 calories, 3 has meals, the right to an additional meal that will be hired and worked, but then they say how much the problem is for people with disabilities, who have a certain weight of disease, who need special nutrition because of what they suffer, because of their illnesses and who are not actually used in prisons at all. So when you look at the situation in prisons, you should always look at it if you are unable to bring concrete information from the prisons themselves, in order to have a real situation, you have to read the lawyer's reports in which they clearly say that some things were not respected after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44493	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44494	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you're right, there are attorney reports, I've also looked at them, I haven't specifically looked back at them, but only when I'm under instructions in the prisoner's costs and on the diet, so I've stated that there is a possibility of different menus and I've listed this price because the representative was asking for it. So I didn't go into detail to specify all of what you said, there is and the report says what the value of meals is and also to ensure and try to provide menus for those who have special diagnosis etc. Of course, always God's will be better, and that's why attorneys have that possibility that precisely because of such visits that aren't announced, determine the true state of affairs, that's their role, and to point out that the situation needs to be improved and in which segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44495	Thank you, too. We have two individual discussions, Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, no. He's losing his right. Mr. Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Here's kind of a colleague of Strenja-Linić gave me a clagworth with this story about how one thing they write in reports that are dry, in principle they write services and inside everything looks very nice, but the attorney has a kind of better picture, and here I took this opportunity today to get you and my colleagues to know in principle what it looks like firsthand. I had this need to speak on this subject today, because I eventually promised it to people with whom I had shared one actually short period of time, but still very intense time, part of a very narrow living space. So I can say that what this report says, I wouldn't say it doesn't match the truth, but it's just numbers. Life is so different. I wouldn't go with food right now, I don't think I'd go right now and medias the truth, I just want to say that this topic isn't the simplest thing to me, but I think it's a good thing to get that side of the story, too. To never forget that there are also human beings there, and that we as a society have to think about what kind of criminal system we want, do we and we want to have a system that rehabilitates or we want to have a system that only punishes and that after someone has served their sentence, there's no benefit from it, no benefit. There's all kinds of people out there, there's all kinds of people out there, there's little place there, but they all have that common quality, that's all. The common feature that human beings who have someone who loves them, who is out there waiting for them, have children like you pointed out today, and we must never forget that component. I'd like to commend what's best in the prison system and these are his employees. I personally can tell you from the first hand that at no point have I felt so for a moment any rudeness, of course the discipline must exist, it is still a prison system, there must be order, and the rules of conduct are strict, but there is one unwritten, now I don't know how ill-written or written the rule, but I really liked it, the better you are to us, the better we are to you. And I've tried to make the most of everyone around me and the prisoners, but of course, in the first place and the employees of the prison system because they work there like they told me, people come to jail and go, and they spend their entire working life there. And I greatly appreciate their humanity and commitment to this job and this one different approach that is really the only piece of humanity you have in one place like prison. I would like to say that the problem, therefore, is not in the system, in the sense of its human dimension, nor in the administration, I am sorry that there may not be a director here today, but you are the Secretary of State, you will transfer it, you are hierarchically higher in the line of command, the problem is of course in terms and I am aware that these conditions, of course, must work as a priority and, of course, as long as we have one classroom in Croatia that paints with walls or ceilings collapses, that it must somehow be our priority. And as I've already said several times in those prisons are people, human beings, and trust me, when someone closes you in six, seven square feet, and when you have your bed in your room, the table you eat, the toilet that's half a metre from the table you eat, and when you spend 22 hours a day in that room, then you realize that maybe it's not so good. And maybe it's not the best punishment for the policies of the bodies that are responsible for the persecution, which so far reach for the measure of detention. Because let's never lose sight of the fact that this is about the inadequacy, i.e. People, they call it in the system of infirmities, i.e. People who are in criminal proceedings, who are very easy to make overnight decisions and end up in an investigative prison and spend some shorter, some more, some 500 days, 500 days in Remetinco. And then 500 days spend 22 hours in a cell and 2 hours says you're entitled to 2 hours in the open. It looks about like someone knocks on your cell door at 7 a.m., sorry doesn't knock, goes in, privacy is gone, there's no choice, and tells you you have 15 minutes to get out of your cell and go for a walk. And that walk looks like you're walking in a circle in principle, that's one eight so concretely poured out, a pretty small radius like that, and then an hour walk in one direction, then an hour someone remembers to turn the other direction so we don't spin. It's those two hours and it's very valuable two hours. They can be at any time of the day, whether it's raining outside, if it's 35 degrees outside, God help me. I'm not saying this now that in any way I don't know about you, I mean my situation, what I've been through is irrelevant. I speak for those whose voice is generally not heard or heard very rarely. And there are some small things that could change this system, and people who are in prisons and in prisons, primarily, and they meant a lot. Because what's paradoxical that's right in the D.A.'s prison is the rights of a prisoner the smallest. A man can work at the penitentiary, I don't know his leave, so he lets them go on some kind of weekends when you're in a prison of investigation. It's not gonna happen. It's no big deal. You've been in a cell with yourself or someone else for 22 hours and you're thinking about yourself or reading books if your nerves let you do it. I'm appealing to you and I'm going to take on the same as an advocate to argue that these conditions are being further humanised. And the question of food, believe me, is food that bread is a basic food. It all starts and ends with bread. That's where I learned to keep the bread because you never know what dinner will be, so you add it to the bread. I can't just replace calories with bread. I know a lot of people who've complained there that they've gotten really fat, and the meals are nothing. So maybe I know it can't, there's no room for some great creativity, and there's not enough resources. But just that awareness of mere calories and some statistics isn't enough. As for the sanitary knot in the very room you live in, I don't know if it's possible to solve it at all. Now, of course, the new prisons aren't being built, but it's one tremendously humiliating treatment. And I would also say medically very much asked, so I don't have to go into details. One more thing I haven't been able to figure out why that is, so here's the thing I'm also appealing to you for a shower. So here, I don't know if you know that in the winter you can take a shower twice a week, and in the summer three times a week. And now, in winter, somehow, a man endures, and now imagine this situation, let's say, 35 degrees outside, you're in a cell with seven people, you have a window with bars without curtains, without any sun protection. There is one so 38 degrees inside and you have the right three times a week to take a shower. I can't figure out how to make sense of it. I guess it's because of the lack of people, I guess that the amount of water that would be spent isn't that bad, and the people who are there would mean a lot. So, my time is coming to an end. I'd just like to say that I'm appealing to all of us to start thinking that people are there, that they're not numbers, that they're people with all kinds of fates and life stories, and no one wants to end up there. Some there end up with an opportunity and we need to think about whether we want them to come out better or worse, whether we want these people simply as a society to give them up in advance or we want to rehabilitate and later be able to fit in with society. This way it's set up, I'm afraid it leaves too many clues to the prison population. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44497	Thank you. You have one replica, Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44498	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, here you are talking about the terms in the penitentiary. I'll just short-circuit to you and related to people with disabilities. My colleagues spoke before me in previous discussions about people with disabilities as well as how their conditions had improved. However, we know as my colleague Strenja-Linić said that the lawyer has been warning people with disabilities for a long time, I would also say inhumane accommodation for people with disabilities in the penitentiary. I'd like to commend what it says here, these short few sentences that refer to people with disabilities. But I don't see here, I looked at the fellow Miljanic since he said at the time he was a minister and at the time there were some shifts and it was commendable. But I don't see a sanitary node here for people with disabilities. I see several penitentiary rooms have been arranged in the Belarusian penitentiary, that some ramps have been arranged, etc. Is the sanitary node really adapted to people with disabilities? And Secretary of State, I'm asking you nicely to pass on the report for 2016, I'd like to see, as far as possible, it is said here that some buildings from the 19th century are and that it is not possible to adapt them. I would not agree with that, because we know that there are mounting ramps that can also be found on some buildings that are monuments of culture, they can be mounted and they can be downloaded. So, when you were talking about terms, it would be good if everyone were better, but I expect people with disabilities to be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44499	Thank you very much. Mr. Saucha, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, I mean, in principle, this wasn't a replica sent to me, but I'm glad that you had the opportunity to say, I think it's also something to talk about, I haven't had a chance to see a single person with disabilities, i.e. I've seen several elderly people with difficulty moving, I can comfort you that the treatment of judicial officers towards them has been extremely humane, but the whole, I don't know, honestly, how this is solved in, specifically in Zagreb prison, the popular Remetic, but I think the general view needs to be paid close attention. One part of the prison population is older and I think all of this should be accessed in a different, slightly more humane way. And this is a theme that's a theme for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44501	Thank you, too. 5 final minutes in front of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44502	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In this final debate, I would like to point out the report of the Committee on Gender Equality which discussed this issue as well. Your report has been submitted to the benches. We put focus on the subject, therefore, children, or, in cases where their parents are in prison. Now I don't know if you've read the report, I'd like to conclude just to highlight a few thesis, which will show two things. The first thing is that our prison system, there's still plenty of room for progress, so there's still a lot of work to be done from financial resources, new projects, training. And the other thing is our chronic problem in the prison system, which is capacity. Here's a few quotes from the report. It has been shown that a provision under which juveniles in prison should not be placed together with adults, therefore, does not always follow the rules when it comes to minors in an investigative prison. So there are children who are discriminated against not all equal terms in the prison system. It needs to be fixed. Furthermore, although the spatial conditions in the penitentiary and prisons are limited, in most cases there is a space for contact equipped with a child in an appropriate way, with appropriate children's furniture, social games, drawing equipment and the like. I repeat, there's a lot of space. And now a few similar phenomena, not to read the entire report now, I'll only end up with one paragraph. So, related to the accommodation of minors separated from adult defendants, in investigative prisons. If the expert assessment that a separate stay would have damaged a minor in the room, according to the assessment and with additional consent, the minor may also be accommodated with a minor. However, I point out this part, because of overcrowding and lack of space, we are back on this problem, the adult persons are being placed in space for minors if the current space is not filled. Now the question is, what would happen if there was a need for that space to be filled out. Where would that adult end up? Here, I'd like to draw your attention to these problems we still have. The Committee voted unanimously to accept this report, the Living Wall will also accept this report, but there is therefore a huge space for progress and we advocate strongly for building added prison facilities, not only for adults, but also that, as I have read, children who come to visit parents have all, therefore, decent conditions to visit parents. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44503	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the terms, so Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44504	Report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary and educational institutions for 2015. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion "The report on the state and operation of prison penitentiary and educational institutions for 2015" Please vote. I find that, unanimously, 127 votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44505	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending of funds in 2016. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on free legal aid. The material was delivered. The debate was conducted by the Justice Committee and you received a report. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44506	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I present to you a report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2016. The Institute of Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia is networked by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The law entered into force on 1 January 2014, replacing the previous Law on Free Legal Assistance, which was in force until 31 December 2013. The law on free legal aid is governed by the purpose, users of the type of legal aid. Legal aid providers, conditions and procedure for the delivery of legal aid, eco-border legal assistance, financing of legal assistance, supervision of law enforcement. The law also distinguishes two types of legal aid, which are primary and secondary legal aid. The new arrangement for the provision of primary legal assistance enabled so-called legal counselling of users in order to detect the specific legal problem of its resolution. The inclusion of civil society associations, legal clinics and state administrations in the primary legal assistance system has increased the territorial availability of primary legal assistance and, with the simplification of the procedure for the exercise of the right to primary legal assistance, has resulted in an increase in the number of users of that type of legal assistance. Secondary legal aid relates to the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and to the exemption from the costs of court proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. Leaving a strict property censorship allows for secondary legal assistance to be given to a greater number of users, and including a lawyer as the sole provider of secondary legal assistance to users provides professional legal assistance in the most complex cases. The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia monitors the implementation of the law and is obliged to report annually to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spent funds. In the opening part of the 2016 report, a brief review is given of the legal aid institute, the way in which the system is governed by the law on free legal aid and indicates the importance of this institute. In the second and third parts of this report, a review of the legal framework consisting of the law and the sublaws and the institutional framework made up of public administration offices which decide in the first instance on the requirements of citizens to approve the use of legal aid and the Ministry of Justice which, as an appeal body, conducts a secondary procedure and monitors the application of the law and the responsible functioning of this system as a whole. For the purpose of monitoring the legal assistance system, the Special Committee for Free Legal Assistance has been established as a body of the Ministry of Justice made up of two representatives of the Ministry of Justice, one representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Administration, the Croatian Bar Association, one representative of the Faculty of Law and one representative of authorised associations. In the central and most extensive fourth part of this report, an overview of the number of approved requests submitted in the Republic of Croatia as well as requests for individual counties shall be given. In addition, a review of the total funds allocated to the legal aid system in the 2016 state budget was made, which amounted to 2 million 880 thousand kuna, 2 million 848 thousand kuna was spent. The fifth part of the report described the activities of the Ministry of Justice in the process of further strengthening the legal assistance system while the sixth final part was evaluated in view of the results achieved in the 2016 observed period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44507	Thank you, too. The first one will be spoken by Mr Miroslav Simic in front of the bridge club of independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44508	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. Here on the tables is our report on the exercise of the right to legal aid in 2016, immediately on behalf of the club I would like to say that we will accept the report. And we think it's an excellent institute that was introduced to Croatia, as the Secretary of State said in the Law on Free Legal Assistance there during 2008 and 2009. Until then, we recognized the institute through various other laws of the Law on criminal proceedings, litigation, court fees and the like. The purpose of this institute is to provide legal assistance and legal protection to all citizens regardless of their material and social status and I think this law is working. Of course, it would be much better if there were a little more resources available, however, as Mr Milenic said, it is in our mandate to fight when we adopt the budget. This law itself has experienced several changes, we think that this basic intensities whose law was intended at the very beginning have been increasingly qualitatively improved, so it is evident from the data that we can look at and if we compare in 2009 and 2016 we see that the number of approved requirements has increased by double. That's when we had about 3100 of them, and now we don't have over 6000 of them. I think the good course of the decision to extend the form of primary legal aid that took place during the development and modification of legal proposals is also by including civil society associations, legal clinics and public administration bodies in the primary legal assistance system, we have increased the availability of legal assistance throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We see it from statistical indicators, that I don't repeat it here, and that's not how I try to fill the whole minute. We also think that what was done over time is good, and this is leaving a strict property censorship that initially existed around secondary legal aid which also led to a larger number of users. What I would especially like to praise is the inclusion of legal clinics and that is one of the reasons why I wanted to speak on behalf of the club to in some way appeal to two things. I think the legal clinics helped our law schools, we now have them in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split to further educate students, that we do not have students who were not faced with any dispute after college. We know that they cannot be participants in these disputes, but they still face concrete cases and can help concrete people, they are far more educated and I appeal to the ministry and to this form of legal assistance as much as possible and ultimately financially, but also to education itself. What I would also like to appeal at the end of my presentation, which is that the public is again, so we had a relatively decent campaign on free legal aid when it was introduced through a special law, but we no longer have it today. In recent years, we have an average of about 6000 requests approved, but I think that given the social picture of Croatia, it would be much more if citizens were more informed about this institute and here I appeal to the ministry that I especially deal with it. In the end, I repeat that as a club, we will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44509	Thank you very much. In front of the SDP representative club, Mr Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44510	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Free legal aid report. I'm gonna turn around here now, and I'm gonna say one principle thing first. And that is that I think that we as a Parliament and as advocates need to determine whether we want to hear reports of this nature and discuss it like this in the forum, means in a session or maybe that it starts to go to committees over time. Because that's one thing where they're actually quite technical, quite technical and we're all MPs sitting on some committees and we're more focused on some subject and I believe that the debate would be better quality and that we could take a more important step. So here, I know, that's the law, and that's why we're here, and that's why we're discussing it, but we're talking about the future. Let's change some things that can be simpler. So I would suggest, of course, it'll be hard when we talk about who's to go to the board, who's to stay here at the plenary session but let's say this is one of the proposals, this report that I believe would be in one or two, three committees, two, three committees that could be better discussed than here right now. So here's one proposal and at the presidency to be given, to go outside and see if we can move in that direction or not. There's a whole series of reports that could be done that way. As far as free legal aid is concerned, it's one thing that sounds good on paper, it looks great, but there's something wrong with it. And that's not where I'm talking to you for 2016, so it was 2015, so it was before, so it was 2017. First it doesn't count 2 million and what, 900 thousand kuna, 800. If we can meet the need for free legal assistance in this country where people really don't have money and where they have existential problems that they have to deal with in some legal procedure with 2 million kunas, then we're geniuses or in the system something's wrong. I don't think it's right. I failed to find a solution and a real step forward, I hope you will be more successful in this, but I really think we should talk about it because it is impossible for all our citizens who need to get free legal aid to be calmed down in some way and get quality help with 2 million and 800 thousand kuna, for all of Croatia's citizens in one year, it is impossible. And that's something that if we want to have free legal aid at the right level we need to talk about. One more strategic thing. The other thing is that I would suggest to you and that's when we make the whole model, we keep talking about free legal aid on the one hand and we treat defenses on official duty as if they weren't. Defense under official duty, so when the state pays you a lawyer's salary is also free legal aid. And when you list how much Croatia gives or not, it is one parameter that is not mentioned and should be because other countries count it as free legal aid because it is, you don't have the state's money to pay you defenders and we're actually only dealing with civil and administrative matters and that's one thing pure methodology that we're always spinning in one direction and we should think about uniting it, maybe even being a single law so that it's also a censorship that's set up differently. Because that's some things where we're doing a real step. I say, we need to get away from this 2 million 800, they're impossible to meet needs. Primary, secondary, I won't get into it, they're determined as they are. Whether they are properly assigned or not, about when you hear there are remarks like this, but I'm not going to get into it right now. However, I think the basic lack of resources is a problem. And not what's being determined in the budget but what we've set up the mechanism, I've been involved in it, so it's not going to be a problem for you in a way that the funds can't even be withdrawn anymore, that's the problem. That's where we need to find a solution and make a step. Because without some 20, 30 million kunas to be made available to the citizens, I don't think we can say whatever we write that we have a quality system of free legal aid. Let's not forget hundreds of thousands of people who can't protect their legal interest because they don't have money depending on this and we don't give them enough opportunities to do it. So when we take that aside, these are, are, are some strategic things, we'll still support the report, so just as a report, but I say some things we need to talk about how to change. And I once again appeal to all of us to consider whether any of these reports should be discussed in this... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44511	Thank you. You have one replica from Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Milenic, this is a matter that we all have to think about. If we only take today and otherwise we haven't even discussed 80% of the 2016 report. Practically, a budget should be created based on what it will create, whether we are satisfied, dissatisfied with the work, if someone thinks that, as in the previous debate, more resources should be allocated but I say, it is easy to talk until the budget is passed. But what is far more important is that we all more or less came to some committees according to some kind of personal, whether knowledge, experience,affinities, etc.,sure that the debate on the board among the people whose area is closer will be far more quality and far better than the half-empty assembly here. I remember there when I became a French representative, there a long time ago 16, 17 years ago, meetings of the Assembly committees were very interesting media because they were really being debated to the depths of what the problems were said and most of the sessions were held by 15, 20 journalists. But today, when you look at it, here's the other day of the Finance Committee meeting, there's a debate on the implementation of the state budget, no one, so totally irrelevant. So, the question arises how will we, perhaps even perception of us as parliamentary representatives, be different if we make our work more accessible, more quality, acceptable to Croatian citizens because what we are doing now is clearly what we are doing, what is happening, we are irritated more than they accept what we are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44513	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Miljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44514	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I agree completely, so I did open that question to this report and I think we should discuss it interpartyly and extra-partyly, if you will. So that's where we all have a common interest. And I would totally agree that the discussions on committees would be more followed and that our work as a representative would be looked at differently because it's one thing when you sit here and actually listen to some topic you know nothing about and don't care about, and the other thing is when you're on the board where you want to be and when you have the opportunity to discuss quality. This report would have been better discussed if we had discussed it on two, three committees than this. And what you said, so the quality of Parliament's work would rise, here we would be able to really discuss the laws, but they should have on boards a better debate, they would have more time here for a different debate, and the citizens would look at us differently. Because then when it's on the Committee on Finance, when you start discussing it, when it's concentrated in an hour, two, one story, and another story when it starts here in the morning, and then we finish this afternoon, and it's no longer actually being followed. We're doing ourselves harm. The committees can then be more flexible in the debate. You know, and time different, so it's a very different way of working for which I would fully advocate, because I believe that every Parliament actually has a good part of its work if we want to be high-quality representatives, we should lead through committees. Here when we sit, we vote the laws, it's a whole other story, we can argue. But when we go to the board, we're where we want to be. And there we can do much better, show the citizens what we're actually doing, what we don't do and raised the quality of work. So if there's an initiative going on, I'm absolutely ready to go, I think we'll all meet on it, let's talk about it, why not. Let's make a move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44515	Thank you, too. It's a shame to remember the board and such debates only when we're in opposition, what if we'd remembered earlier? We've been talking our whole lives about committees being the center of everything. [[/Intruder Milenić: I agree, but here is your chance, you are from the opposition to power, so you can change.]] Okay, Mr. Davor Milicevic, in front of HDZ. We've been talking about committees all our lives, no one's listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44516	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We have before us a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending of funds in 2016. First of all, it should be noted that the Institute of Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia was governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which entered into force on 01 January 2014. And replaced the previous Law on Free Legal Assistance and, given that it is a three-and-a-half-year period, it can be concluded on its effectiveness in practice. The law on free legal aid regulates the purpose, users, type of legal aid, legal aid providers, conditions of legal aid operations, cross-border legal assistance, financing of legal aid and supervision of law enforcement. In order to better understand only the report, it is necessary to understand the concepts of secondary legal aid and primary legal aid. Secondary legal aid concerns the pursuit of legal protection in civil, administrative court proceedings and the exemption from the costs of court proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. While primary legal aid concerns legal counselling of users in order to detect and address a specific legal problem. The new arrangement for providing primary legal assistance allows for so-called legal advice for the user in order to detect a specific legal problem, and address it. The inclusion of civil society associations, legal clinics and authorities in the primary legal assistance system has increased the territorial availability of primary legal assistance and, with the simplification of the procedure for the exercise of the right to primary legal assistance, has resulted in an increase in the number of users of that type of legal assistance. During 2016, 10256 applications for secondary legal aid were lodged in the Republic of Croatia, of which 6956 were granted, rejected 1880, rejected 308, suspended 494, submitted to other services of 83, and with a date of 31 December 2016, were in operation 1327 applications. What are these numbers telling us? They say that the social status of our citizens is still very bad, that there is a low level of trust in legal institutions and legal uncertainty. Analysis of the work of the Office of State Administration by county is evident that there are huge differences in certain counties, which is very indicative. The largest number of such requests are recorded in Istria County, even 747 requests, if we exclude the City of Zagreb, which refutes the earlier conclusion that the basis for applying for free legal aid is social status. Because as we all know, Istrian County is one of the richest counties in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore illogical that we have the most free legal aid requirements there, but this can point to another conclusion, which is that the number of requests for free legal aid does not depend on the social status of the county but is more related to the application of legislation and legal relations among citizens, in general legal certainty. The statistical data of those reports, as shown in the chart, show that the largest number of legal aids achieved was related to judicial proceedings in which family proceedings were predominant and enforcement proceedings and that, as the most common form of secondary legal aid in 2016, it was used in proceedings to represent court proceedings, to exempt from payment of court fees and to release the costs of the proceedings, while it was least used to settle disputes peacefully. That is also the biggest problem of our legal system and the peaceful settlement of disputes as a way of resolving all types of disputes should be encouraged and strengthened, that this should be pursued. In fact, by resolving disputes by peaceful means would ultimately lead to significant savings in the state budget, which is now burdened with not small financial expenditure to provide legal assistance to lawyers, witches and interpreters in particular, and this amounts to a total of 2 million 848 thousand 656 kuna, which is paid to those legal aid providers 2 million 153 thousand 792 kuna. What is evident from the comparison in 2015, 2016, is a drastic increase in secondary legal aid compared to primary legal aid. The fact is that the establishment of a legal aid system has taken a significant step in improving the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, though, there is still a great need for legal protection in our society, which is not good in any case. And it is also a minor role for a peaceful way of resolving disputes that should certainly be changed in the future. A report like this outlines the current situation in society, but we all need to work together to ensure that the needs for primary and secondary assistance and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are lower in the future, without affecting the quality of the legal assistance provided. The HDZ Club will support a report on the achievement of free legal aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44517	Thank you very much. And now in front of the club of independent representatives and HSU Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go. It took a long time, but in the end, the time came.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44518	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Free legal aid, an institute that we have started to discuss seriously in parallel with preparations and adjustments for Croatian membership in the EU. It's an institute that, if it doesn't really mean justice, which means access to justice institutions and maybe possibly some chance of justice for the poorest people. Very often people who live and in such areas that are very difficult to access, who are very often old, very often alone and very often had some objects that were de facto the result of war or different things that happened during the war and afterwards. When we started with that institute, that is, before we joined the EU, we had as you know one law and we had quite another funding. We had about 10 times as much as we now have for primary legal aid. So, only from the UNHCR did we have a million euros. And of the other donors it was somewhere ten million kuna was that amount that was available for free legal aid. For some I do not quite understand the reasons of the Ministry of Justice through many generations of ministers have always had some discomfort and antipathy towards this institute of free legal aid. However, when we were preparing to join the EU, it was one of the requirements, one of the criteria, and much has been discussed. There was also debate here in the Assembly, debated at different round tables organised by NGOs, especially those associations that started with this kind of legal aid even before it was regulated. Just for comparison in 2016, which this report refers to as primary legal, free legal aid, so that's the advice that a person needs to see at all what he could and could do in a situation where he found himself being divided into institutions dealing with or running for money on the project slightly less than 700 thousand kuna. So, from ten million to 700 thousand kuna. Also, one of the pains of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance has always been complexity. So you would need free legal assistance to help you find ways to look and qualify for free legal aid. It's not just a feature of 2016. It's kind of a permanent feature of that institute. It used to be those famous instructions, so one model or system that most people who were, would qualify or would be the ones who needed free legal aid would have been so complicated that they couldn't use it. A colleague from HDZ said something that I think is a good point of view that in Istria where the most people applied for this legal aid, where de facto this type of information and the possibility of even using some institutes that are probably bigger and the need in general I would almost swear less than in person or in some parts of Croatia that have been hit by war and where there are many more people who should do so. At the same time, however, Lika is the area that you least have people running for this free legal aid. It's certainly not because there are at least or in other parts of the war where there really was war on the ground. So there's obviously a difficulty that's always been followed by the institute, which is that those people who really need it and could qualify, don't know how to get there. They're too complicated to come to that. And if we want to, the opposite of what's going on, which is that the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, we're slowly killing. If we want to keep it and develop it, in fact give people a chance to use it, then certainly the approach model must be simplified and probably the amount of money increased. But to begin at least a way of accessing and the possibility of using and free legal assistance to simplify. Now, specifically speaking of this 2016 report, the decision on which organisations, which deal with the provision of primary legal aid, will receive funding for 2016, has been made by an anonymous internal commission or commission within the Ministry of Justice. Because, for 2016, the Committee on Legal Assistance in which it is not only representatives of the ministry, but also representatives of civil society are, therefore, slightly wider, more public, more transparent and more transparent who and what it decides on. That commission is... The meeting has now been established, so 2017 and so far has had 1 meeting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe this list, if you've looked at it a little bit, the association that got the money for free legal aid seems unusual. There are some, I've Googled some of these associations and there are some who gather and occasionally hold lectures on different topics, but not in the sense that a man can turn to them and get help in his case or case, but simply, let's just say some kind of general legal education. At the same time, they all got really small amounts, so they all got for such a job, amounting to between 33850 kuna and 75000 kuna per organization. On the other hand, the oldest institution in Croatia to provide such assistance, which has also won the Micro Tripalo Award, is the law clinic of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. They've got 0 kunas. Which, I must say, was absolutely shocking to me, when I didn't see them here and I thought something accidentally dropped, so I went to law school, which is why they didn't get it or why they were released from that report. And I got the information that they were asked to give a soloed Bianko debtor so they could participate in that competition and get the funds. Then it gave up, so the dean was asked to make a statement, or to give some kind of guarantee for that money that they would get to provide free legal aid. As is known, they are an institution, therefore, a legal clinic of the Faculty of Law, with long experience, with recognized results, they are doing this job now, but they are doing it because they introduced him into the education program. So, teachers work with students and students do this job, but without money from the budget for the job, unlike some others, that I don't insult anyone here now, look at what associations that got the money, that certainly organize some convenient socializing and teaching, but that legal aid isn't. It's not free legal aid. Besides that, unlike my friend and colleague Orsat Milenic, I'm not sure how much defense by official duty should be entered into this category. It can only be included in categories of free legal aid if you want to show a little more money. But if you really want to provide people with help, it's not an official defense. Second, these reports also include, or what is counted as free legal aid is the exemption from the costs of the procedure. The release half of what's being said here is a release from the costs of the proceedings. I don't see how it's free legal aid, especially the one that seems to me and us at the club seems particularly important, which is the primary free legal aid, where people get some information that they can get, what they can do. In addition, this report shows that the money and that little money, this small number and unusually selected without public control of associations and organisations dealing with primary free legal aid, were allocated at the 9th month. So as the people's contest should be in January I guess and the money should go right behind it so it could work a year on how someone can work and provide help to people from the beginning of the year, which would be logical, if the money gets into September and has to be spent by December 31st and almost, there's no transfer. It's if you look a little bit more closely at everything visible from this report and we at our club think it wasn't working well in 2016. We will not support this report, but we are appealing to all of you, all of us, however you want it to be that if this institute doesn't want to be abolished to get back to the public's attention or somehow draw public attention to it, should we organise a debate about it here in the Parliament and invite different stakeholders of that entire system. In our opinion, it's an important and valuable institute. It didn't hurt anyone, unfortunately I'm afraid that a very small number of people used it, but if one right way of applying it would be helpful and it would bring us here to tell justice, not to tell justice, but to access justice for a number of people who are really the most marginalized and who don't have any other exits or help. Therefore, our vote will be a position on this report, but the attitude towards free legal assistance is very positive and we are ready to participate and help organise such a debate and see together what we can do more wisely and efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44519	Thank you, too. No more speakers. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44520	Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the consumption of funds in 2016. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion, ‘A report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spending in 2016’. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 127 for, 3 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion proposed by the National Assembly Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44521	And now we have three points, three appointments, and we will unite the debate because there are three appointments. All three of them come to us from the Justice Committee. The first is the following point: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives, - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives, - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives. The draft act shall be proposed by the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 144. Law on the State's Attorney's Office, Article 81. The Law on the State Judicial Council and also the same member of the same Law on the State Judicial Council for the third proposal. I would ask Mr. Orsat Milenić's representative at least to hear who will be resolved and who will be nominated. Not so much for us because there are so few of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44522	All right, Mr. Vice President, I'm listening to you, so I'll fill you in. So, the State Judiciary Council is changing the majority and minority of parliament, which means counterpart Simic is changing with counterpart Lackovic, which is the proposal of the majority of the new. And the State's Attorney's Council for the departure of counterpart Bošnjakovic as minister is incompatible and is now a colleague of Jelkovac. Here's to short, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44523	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest at least so far. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications at 9.30 p.m. Sleep well. It's a sit-down in 20.05.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44524	Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Attorney's Board of Representatives. The draft act is proposed by the Committee on Justice. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Maria Jelkovac as members of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 131 votes for, 2 against the decision to appoint Maria Jelkovac as a member of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44525	And now we have three points, three appointments, and we will unite the debate because there are three appointments. All three of them come to us from the Justice Committee. The first is the following point: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives, - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives, - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives. The draft act shall be proposed by the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 144. Law on the State's Attorney's Office, Article 81. The Law on the State Judicial Council and also the same member of the same Law on the State Judicial Council for the third proposal. I would ask Mr. Orsat Milenić's representative at least to hear who will be resolved and who will be nominated. Not so much for us because there are so few of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44526	All right, Mr. Vice President, I'm listening to you, so I'll fill you in. So, the State Judiciary Council is changing the majority and minority of parliament, which means counterpart Simic is changing with counterpart Lackovic, which is the proposal of the majority of the new. And the State's Attorney's Council for the departure of counterpart Bošnjakovic as minister is incompatible and is now a colleague of Jelkovac. Here's to short, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44527	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest at least so far. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications at 9.30 p.m. Sleep well. It's a sit-down in 20.05.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44528	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council in the order of the representatives. The draft act is proposed by the Committee on Justice. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the resolution of Miroslav Simic, a member of the State Judicial Council of the House of Representatives. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 131 votes in favour of, 2 against, a decision has been taken to resolve Miroslav Simic, a member of the State Judicial Council of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44529	And now we have three points, three appointments, and we will unite the debate because there are three appointments. All three of them come to us from the Justice Committee. The first is the following point: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives, - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives, - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Judicial Council from the Office of Representatives. The draft act shall be proposed by the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 144. Law on the State's Attorney's Office, Article 81. The Law on the State Judicial Council and also the same member of the same Law on the State Judicial Council for the third proposal. I would ask Mr. Orsat Milenić's representative at least to hear who will be resolved and who will be nominated. Not so much for us because there are so few of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44530	All right, Mr. Vice President, I'm listening to you, so I'll fill you in. So, the State Judiciary Council is changing the majority and minority of parliament, which means counterpart Simic is changing with counterpart Lackovic, which is the proposal of the majority of the new. And the State's Attorney's Council for the departure of counterpart Bošnjakovic as minister is incompatible and is now a colleague of Jelkovac. Here's to short, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44531	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest at least so far. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications at 9.30 p.m. Sleep well. It's a sit-down in 20.05.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-10-0.u44532	Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Attorney's Board of Representatives. The draft act is proposed by the Committee on Justice. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint Zeljko Lackovic as a member of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 117 for, 3 abstentions, 12 against, have made a decision to appoint Zeljko Lackovic as a member of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives. We have a report from a colleague of Grumoja, please.
