ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47233	And now, please, whoever answered for the break. First he was a colleague of Panenić, then Bernardic, so I see Alexic and Hrelja for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47234	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament on behalf of the representatives of the Independent Lists Club, we are looking for a 10-minute break regarding the current political situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47235	Thank you. He's a colleague of Bernardich's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47236	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a break because of the annual report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47237	You got it. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47238	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, I am looking for a break to discuss the importance of consumers in the EU in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47239	Thank you. I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47240	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to try to explain this whole retirement bonus issue 27%.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47241	Thank you. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47242	... total regimes. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47243	Okay, thank you. A colleague of Bacic's. Just a little co-worker and co-workers, please. Just a little more, please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47244	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I demand a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47245	Thank you. That's it. We have six requests for a break. We'll proceed with the break at 11.10. It's 11 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.10 HOURS]] The first is counterpart Tomislav Panenic on behalf of the bridge of independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47247	Thank you very much, President. Exactly the topic of the current political situation and speaks, here is the daily newspaper Evening Paper that I have in my hands, and also other daily newspapers in the pictures have a politician and it's a politician in a negative context, the context of what we all have to fight together. Mayor Alojz Tomasevic, whom you've all probably met, has been detained by police, domestic violence. His wife asked for medical attention, and somehow when I listen to his colleagues' statements there, he turns out to be a radiator, and then he hits her a couple of times. And now I hope that the mayor has cooled down a little bit and that he can make a peaceful decision as well as the public expects of him. What we saw yesterday was that the prime minister held a telephone session in haste, just to reduce the damage that occurs even though it is nominally always against such things. So he's against the phone session, but he disbanded the county board. And what about it? Nothing. This can be done by law on protection against domestic violence and then sanctioning. If the prevention, if it was the e-mail his wife sent, probably his colleagues said it wasn't something new if those of us who showed up there, we know about it, then it can't be an excuse that it's stuck somewhere in the secretariat. And also in Article 10 of the same law when they are prescribed, they change criminal sanctions nowhere mentions a party as such. It is not the party in the first place, and it is not the party in the first place, but the wife of Alojz Tomasevic, who was to be talked about, rather than how the party will be fenced and made a safeguard measure, and still publish it in all the media. The HDZ Ethics Code itself requires each official to have moral integrity, personal reputation, principles of conduct, attitude towards citizens, all of these four have been violated. The only thing we don't know about is receiving, giving gifts or services, which is either with it or maybe everything has to be cumulative, so to make a decision then, here's what we see is that it's hard to sanction is possible only for the rightful convicted. We still don't have the rightful conviction, but the evidence is irrefutable and that something should be changed in action. As far as we can see, just because there's no mayor's statement, it looks like the prime minister applied it to him as well as to his deputy, don't step forward, don't go to meetings and time will do its part, all that expensive cat papal. And what we have in the current situation, not only the HDZ leadership in Požega-Slavon County, but also in the county are the bullies and the mayor and his deputy, and on the other hand, when we look at the parliamentary representative of our colleague, he bribes journalists. I would say that the situation is alarming and that something has to be done in haste, and I hope this time the prime minister will not be exclusively legal, but he will really do whatever is in his power, not wait for the courts, so the courts will determine the further criminal act of bribing the official person or not, but let's look at the actual evidence. Then I wonder, and why is the HDZ County Committee disbanded, by what criteria? Is there then any other criterion on which the County Committee is disbanded, and that is not the criterion of the established judgment? I will also tell Prime Minister Plenkovic that we are all very sorry that it happened. It's not good for the mayor's wife, but I don't see how it'll be bad for the mayor if his term continues, there's no resignation, nothing happened. And for the image of the HDZ, we're all really getting fucked. Is that what they need to do for themselves? And make a suggestion at least then let the mayor be independent and then you've washed up and made a deal if you don't bear a responsibility that's irrefutable. I think now is the time for the secretary to write a solution and say this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47248	Second debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished counterpart Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47249	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I remind you that you have put on the agenda a report on the work of the Government which has been a practice for years to come usually at the beginning of the autumn session, but on this report, regardless of what the Parliament is doing for two weeks has not been discussed in the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I call on Plenkovic to come to the Croatian Parliament, submit a report on the government's work, judging by everything about the government's unhappiness and the questions why is he personally opposed to setting up an investigative commission on Agrokor, what is his connection with lex Agrokor writers? How is it possible that the prime minister can influence the judicial authorities and the police? On the basis of recent, today's, yesterday's accusations from former Police Minister Vlaha Orepic, however, the question arises why did it take Mr. Orepic so long to discuss it? These are all questions to be answered by the Prime Minister before the Croatian Parliament and therefore there is no reason not to form a commission as soon as possible, an investigative committee for Agrokor and to answer the heavy accusations that hit this government and to which Plenkovic himself must answer to the Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens. Instead, Prime Minister Plenkovic as a daily commentator commented on the country's day-to-day political developments and currentities and fled from solving the country's real problems. This is the government without any single result. That's what I mean at this point obviously to everyone. Education reform has been halted, 100,000 people have left Croatia in the last two years, is gathering electricity and the focus of the public and the media is trying to switch to stories about Ustashas and Partisans and history stories. It can't even go that way. What we have seen in recent days, we have seen the reaction of highly positioned HDZs, more visible HDZs, for example in Split, who have just responded that 100,000 people have left Croatia have reacted in a "wide field, let them go". And it is not the first such statement in Split, unfortunately something that is systematically happening and that is tolerated. So verbal violence, and yesterday's example and physical violence is something that becomes a normal pattern of behavior in the ruling party, which unfortunately wants to apply and transfer to all of Croatia. It's something we can't let them do. Croatia can and knows, I think it is clear to our people, to those who believe in our country, Croatia can and knows but if we lose young people from our country then we will not have the opportunity to show it. Young people are the only chance of this country but should be given better education reformed, they should be able to get to the roof for themselves and their families, and this can only be a systematic housing policy, and not that the stampede in APN in which banks are pushed to help banks subsidized housing loans de facto create a false picture of how to help young people and young people in Croatia achieve better business, investment climates must have a choice. He chooses his career, chooses his job, if you want a choice and a life partner. It is also something that the last proposal of the Family Law, which resembles the Family Law of the Age of Inquisition, which is happily removed from the debate in the Croatian political space, is trying to put on the agenda. And that is why it is high time for Prime Minister Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, to come to the Croatian Parliament, to report to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to the parliamentary representatives on the work, i.e. not the work of his government. What happened in the last few months? The Committee for Slavonia is formed? What's the effect? Not at all. The Committee for the Facing of the Past has also been formed. The commission, unfortunately, has failed to face itself, and in the last two years, 100,000 people have left the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is no excuse, no justification, according to Plenkovic's government, is the government of abandonment, postponement, inconclusive and on new and difficult charges. I call on the prime minister to come to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, respond to the heavy accusations and report on the government's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47250	Thank you very much. Only one piece of information, therefore, regarding the government's annual report, will come in line, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. A different practice was and the former prime minister had been coming in different weeks since the start of the session. So as President of the Parliament, I wanted to make it about time for his exposure to coincide with the first year of office so that it would be rounded up and that would certainly happen within the next two weeks, say. So, if you don't mind, I think it's perfectly acceptable to put together the first year of office and that annual report. Here, thank you very much. The second is, or third is Goran Aleksic The club of representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Here's five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47251	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say a few words about consumers. You may not be aware here, but the EU is well aware that consumers are the foundation of society, so consumers are the basis of both the EU and the foundation of the Republic of Croatia. Because without consumers, no GDP growth, no production growth, no producers, no nobody. We unfortunately failed our exam today thanks to the ruling majority who do not recognise the rule of law. The amendment was to be voted on, which was proposed to charge outflows in loans, in housing loans already agreed on and not to be charged to debtors. I noted that protection in this respect was prescribed by the Law on Mandatory Relations of Article 102. I noted that there is a judgment of the County Court in Vukovar in 2014 where it was rightly ruled that the exit fees are unfair, illegal and that the exit fee in a specific case must be reimbursed to the debtor along with the tight interest because the bank has the right to pay only damages in early payment. And past profit is no shame. Today, representatives of the Serb minority have shown themselves to be patriots and to rule of law while representatives of the ruling majority of HDZ have shown that they are merely folklore patriots. I don't recognize folklore, I admit only actions. The second thing that has not been accepted is the proposal to order banks to offer both anunities and wars. There was no reason not to accept it. It was nothing retroactive. Even if it was retroactive, it wasn't the whole law retroactive, it was just part of the law, but it wasn't retroactive. So, I'm saddened by the fact that you missed today to show that you're a true patriot and that you're for the rule of law. And I must repeat, I thank the representatives of the Serb minority who have proven to know what to do and how to vote in this House. I also thank all those who voted to join the EU. If we hadn't joined the EU, we would be naked and barefooted today, because it is the EU that protects consumer rights unlike the Republic of Croatia that is late in this and which is very slow in this. Once again, I must recall three very important rulings by the EU court. The first is the C26/13 and the Kestler case where consumer rights are protected and on the basis of which Hungary carried out the conversion of CHF credit. The second ruling was C184/15 in one Spanish case, where it was also ruled that banks had negotiated unfair contractual provisions and should not behave accordingly. The third is a recent verdict on the case in Romania. All these judgments are for the benefit of the consumer. Unfortunately, here we do not recognise who the consumer is, which is the importance of consumers, that the consumer lies with the whole economy, that it is protected by Directive 93/13 which is completely clear and which says that in the type contracts in which certain contractual provisions are in advance inserted that these contractual provisions are unfair if they are at the expense of consumers because they cannot be negotiated. We must install EU directives in all our laws, and in particular this Directive 93/13. And everything the bank pre-contracts and charges must be prohibited. I repeat Article 1021. The law on mandatory relations is perfectly clear. When a loan is negotiated, it is agreed that credit and interest will be returned, there is no other cost. I therefore expect you colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community to consider your consumer view in the Republic of Croatia, to consider the laws that I have proposed because they protect consumer rights. They are based on the rule of law, on the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia, on EU directives and there is no obstacle to these laws being passed. We can only talk about the methodology. We can also discuss retroactivity, but these laws are necessary and these laws must be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47252	Thank you, too. We're moving on to the fourth debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47253	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the media, there are too many speculations as to what 27% of pensions are, i.e. a hint that the government will give, the government will take that add-on. It's a lot of stuff, and I appreciate it's time to quote three articles of the two laws, see what it's all about. In particular, the right to add to a pension under the Retirement Act does not belong to the users whose pension is determined under more favourable conditions and/or in a more favourable manner according to specific rules on pension insurance for the beneficiaries of the highest pension laid down under the Pensions Act, the beneficiaries of the basic pension and the family pension beneficiaries who are determined by the pension that has been made according to the pension insurance rules applicable until 31 December '98. A year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on pension insurance of the “National Journal” No. 157/13. It is prescribed: ‘The insurance insured in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of an individual capitalised savings which has achieved an insurance hold during the period until the start of application of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised retirement savings and early retirement shall be determined in such a way as to determine that part of the pension pension pension has been completed by 1 January 2002 as having been secured only in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity, and part of the pension that belongs to it for the pension period from that date shall be determined as basic pension. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of The pension insurance law is prescribed. The basic pension is the monetary income from pension insurance obtained under certain conditions by insurance undertakings which have been secured from 1 January 2002 and in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. Sub-paragraph 10 says: “The pensioner is an insurance provider who has been granted the right to retire. In practice, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office shall apply Article 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Pension Insurance Act refers exclusively to the users of basic pensions, not to the two-part pensioners, of which only the second basic pension is. The consequence of this is of course not to recognise a 27% allowance to a part of the pension that belongs to the insurance company as if it had only been secured in the mandatory pension column. So that's not all true, because the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a pensioner, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, and has 10 years of internship in Croatia, where it receives along with a state pension and a pension from a factory register which is also an individual capitalised savings. The Croatian Pension Insurance Institute adds 27% to them neatly for the 10 years on the calculated pension. So we have a different attitude. So it's not a problem. Of course, we will give support to this law by amending and supplementing the Law on Appendixes, which the SDP has sent if necessary. But seriously, I don't think it's necessary and I think the mistake here is being made by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute with its rigid stand. In order not to accuse them of anything, my colleague, Peja Grbin, and I have decided to make a credible interpretation of Article 91. The Law on Pension Insurance in accordance with the Article of the Law on Supplement, in order not to require amendments to the law, because it definitely states everything in the law, who has the right and does not write anywhere who does not have the right. It's an exclusive interpretation of HZMO, which I say in another case in foreign pensions it acts differently. I hope that you will have an understanding of this, that we are not doing a waste of amending and supplementing the law, but that in one cultural way, by looking at what it says in the laws, we are solving to the benefit of our citizens, who have started to retire to a two-stage pension and are really damaged. The damage will not be compensated, but the damage will be mitigated, and the damage has occurred among other things because of the short investment in the second pillar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47254	Thank you. The next debate is a respected colleague, Zeljko Glasnovic, Advocacy Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47255	Dear colleagues. We are spinning around again, because in Croatia, I have no analysis that we are able to attach consequences and causes to this day. And that's why we can't go any further, because that's where history is falsified every day, because if there's no analysis, we're standing in place. Total inert. Here, '92. In the year, at Kupres, the first man to die was the Croatian from Istria, when they came up the Chetnik horde and those with a five-point helmet. And today, what do we have? What do we have today? Who's asking these parties for a ban on Chetnik traits. What do we got? They continue to march on cryptocommunists and kumrovic jacks and conceal the historical truth. But they don't have facts on their side, they only have empty pheasant. Recently, it's terrifying that it was somewhere else, say in Poland or in the Czech Republic or in other post-Communist countries, someone would be in jail, presented by Mr... words your election victory with words, says I welcome from Leningrad and from this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means he praises the largest criminal organization in the history of Europe, west of Ural, who killed only 6 million peasants, which was killed, it's for these HSS should know that. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] will now be marked, where he was killed by forced hunger and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Ukraine up to 6 million, which is a bullet in the head, what the head, where cannibalism was a day-to-day phenomenon, he praises... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cryptocommunists, what's worse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's going on? Why isn't it said that this constitution is '45? The year was founded on Stalin's Constitution of Yugoslavia, '36. A year. And today, that's right. No key problem has been solved here in terms of confiscated assets, the punishment of war crimes. You have 1,000 mass graves in Croatia, 700 in Slovenia, who cares. No DNA analysis, but it hasn't happened since '45 alone. As these words of the kryptocomunists and the former conjugal children, they hide it, but it happened in 1912-1941 and the same thing since '41-'45. where 33 Croatian parishes disappeared from the face of the country. Zrin, Karnjeusha, Borčevac, here's a book if anyone wants to know, it's all written down a long time ago. And that's what some people ignore. There are some doctors of science, God help us if they're historians, who don't know whether Tito was a criminal or not. It's moving on. That so far found so many mass graves. And not only does the Ministry of Culture support this falsified history and this one supports the generous, falsified victims of the 2nd World War, but they're still doing it to prevent some kind of revisionism. Well, that's where the revisionism's been going since '45. years away. Where statistics are for confiscated property, how much was taken away from people's property in Croatia, as much as in Zagreb. There were 130 in person... Croats, I don't think there are 50, 60 grand left today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where did those Croats go? We're talking about emigration here. And what was there, Argentina, 30,000, '48. 100,000 left after that, a million and something went from South from '60 to '72. and economic diplomacy. They're out there, but they're completely ignored. So when will we be clear that the biggest problem here is these former personnel who cannot form a state. They're in all parties. You have a gynecologist from HDZ right there in Lika, who keeps preventing the truth from happening there and that's why we can't move on. We've got the same personnel, same metal assembly, and we're making the same mistakes. What's being prevented in the media? It prevents analysis and what happens. If someone's telling the truth, like, Bishop Kosic, then was attacked from all weapons, threatened there... Him at 3:00 in the morning and other people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they have no arguments, they go personally. And that's what's happening and what's happening? We'll have a Croatian state once we realize that we haven't had the Nuremberg Process for Communist Crimes yet. Here, how many Croats know about the Rapal Treaty? And who handed it to Istria in the 20s, all the way to Zadar and the islands, down there, who handed it over there? Then who was in the Yugoslav government, the High-Serb? That's not what you're talking about. The presidents are whistled upstairs. They can't think of a president why? Because she's the only president who wasn't a member of the Communist party, that's why. And these frames while they rule here, while there's no lustration of academics, this is just a mere story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47256	Thank you. We're moving on to six hearings. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Zeljko Rainer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47257	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So we responded to the topic of the political situation in the country even though it wasn't really spoken, nor did those who spoke from this pay phone, after the break, actually talk about the political situation in the country, but talked about certain phenomena. So let's say, very clearly what we think of these phenomena. So surely, then, it is certain that no one can ever justify domestic violence, especially domestic violence or violence of any kind. And no one among us can, I'm convinced, find out who might justify it. Therefore, those who commit domestic violence must naturally be sanctioned. It is clear that there is a way to do this and it is clear that they must leave the high duties they are in. I must admit that I do not fully understand what counterpart Panenic advocated because he said the same about the political situation in the country on the one hand said that he was dealing with the internal affairs of the other party, specifically HDZ, on the one hand that HDZ Požega-Slavon County was disbanded as a result of the problems that were there, as a result of accusations that existed with the mayor, etc. On the other hand, he said nothing was done. Now it's a clear contradiction and I find it hard to understand what the message was supposed to be. However, I want to make it very clear once again, of course not just HDZ, but I think neither of you will, can or should not tolerate domestic violence. What is, however, a colleague Bernardic who shows up like this and then disappears and happens once a month, probably someone else stamped cards, I don't know, said it was a pattern of HDZ behavior. I have to admit, I don't want to comment at all. I do not want to comment because we have never said here that this is a pattern of SDP behaviour when, at the time in the media, there was data on the family violence of a prominent SDP member, and we do not think that this is a matter to be discussed in the Assembly because it is a matter that needs to be sanctioned and for which there are mechanisms in a regulated state that need to be sanctioned. And every party within themselves, when something like that happens, knows and has to act accordingly. It's not good to speak inaccuracy and inaccuracy from this pay phone, so I need to correct one. So, a colleague Bernardic, among other things, in his tirad which he said and disappeared as usual, said that the Council for the Facing of the Past is not working at all, it is a complete inaccuracy. So now I want to make it clear to the public that what has since its establishment had a number of meetings, intensive work between these sessions, written correspondence of members has been delivered, opinion of the interested public has been received. After each session, President Kusic reported to the public the work of the council and it is known, and I am convinced that my colleague Bernardic knows that the next meeting is scheduled for tomorrow. It is therefore not good to use such things every so much to score political points, saying things that do not stand. We are dealing here with the work for which Croatian citizens have chosen us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u47258	Thank you. We're done arguing after the break, and now we're on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51356	So we move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in respect of Article 52 The law on spatial planning. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Daniel Meštric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51357	Honorable chairman, respected MPs and MPs. The adoption of a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia as a fundamental state document for the direction of development in space is proposed on the basis of Article 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 52 The law on spatial planning. The strategy is adopted in accordance with the law by the Croatian Parliament, the holder is the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and the expert designer is the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development. Presenting a proposal for this new document that will guide the spatial development of the state and the behaviour of all stakeholders involved, is an opportunity to remind us where we started. The acquisition of independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of 1997, adopted its Spatial Development Strategy for the first time in history on its own, establishing its spatial development and directing the editing, use and protection of space. The document sets out strategic national interests of long-term spatial development, linking Croatia with its European environment, restoring the areas affected during the Homeland War and building a spatial planning system. It is precisely thanks to the first strategic document 20 years later that we can say that we are not starting from the beginning, but we are considering the possibilities for further development of the spatial arrangement system. Key settings for the protection of the fundamental identity values of Croatian space remain unchanged in the proposal for this new spatial development strategy. New approaches to further affirmation as well as sustainability criteria and models for general development of the Republic of Croatia are being explored. Key reasons for drawing up a new strategy include the emergence of processes detected by monitoring the situation in space as well as significant changes in the international context compared to the period when the first strategy was adopted in 1997. The following principle of integration of evaluation and harmonisation of sectoral requirements and the principle of partnership in the preparation of the strategy took part in the delivery of its requirements and relevant data by all competent ministries, state administrations, all county institutions of the county, agencies and other equal authorities. In addition to public law bodies, representatives of the scientific and professional community participated in the development of the strategy. A public consultation on the draft strategy proposal was carried out in the strategy process. In the course of the consultation on this public representation strategy and professional debates were held in the city of Split, the city of Rijeka, Zagreb, the city of Zagreb and the city of Osijek. In the course of the strategy, it was also implemented in accordance with the specific rules of the strategic environmental impact assessment procedure under which the main assessment of the acceptability of the Environmental Network Strategy was carried out, and the positive opinion of the competent authorities was also provided. The strategy consists of 5 basic chapters and its planned part comes from the first two chapters in which the resistance values of Croatian space and the state and processes in space are determined. 5 chapters are resistance values, state and process in space, starting points and concepts of spatial development, priorities and strategic orientations of spatial development and the framework for implementation. Chapter 1 of the resistance value determines the values of the Croatian space and other values on which the strategy is based. These are elements of the natural but all spatial identity factors that we want to preserve from protected natural values to cultural heritage and valuable achievements of the culture of construction in Croatian space. The resistance value is also a long tradition of urban and spatial planning in Croatia and developed spatial planning systems as well as EU legislation and other international documents and initiatives that contribute to sustainable space and urban development. Chapter 2 examines the existing state of development in space, but also those elements and processes that could have a significant impact on the development of Croatia's space in the future. The strategy draws attention to the depopulation process and population ageing, to the specific challenges faced by certain areas. This Chapter sets out and achieves a degree of development of infrastructure systems with developmental problems and needs. Specific pressures on space related to the possibility of climate change have also been identified, we mean droughts, forest fires, extreme hydrological opportunities, etc., and anthropogenic impacts where the problem of illegal construction and the problem of abandoned and unused properties is particularly highlighted. For the purpose of balanced and sustainable development, raising the quality of life and easing negative demographic processes, setting up spatial development concepts in Chapter 3 are the affirmation of policy-making, the mitigation of the pace of depopulation of the most vulnerable areas, the preservation of the identity of the Croatian space, the use of the advantages of geotransport position, sustainable development of the economy and infrastructure systems, integration with the European space, integrated access to spatial planning and active adaptation to change dynamics. Chapter 4 contains spatial development priorities and related strategic orientations. Priorities are sustainability of the spatial organisation, preservation of the identity of space, transport connection, development of the energy system, resistance to change. The new strategy focuses specifically on recommendations for measuring the use of space and orientation towards improving the space already used and this urban transformation of abandoned spaces and better real estate management especially those in public ownership and urban recovery of space with impaired spatial functional relations such as areas where illegal construction took place. It is also of particular importance to mitigate negative processes in rural areas and to improve urban rural links to strengthen the role of medium-sized and small cities as well as to develop infrastructure systems. Finally, Chapter 5 of the Implementation Framework provides guidance for further development of the spatial arrangement system. The coordination of development measures in space plans to further develop the information system of spatial planning, editing and harmonisation of spatial records as input data necessary for quality planning decisions and the quality of spatial plans. The development of new generation plans, which of course involves the latest GIS technology technologies in their production, horizontal, vertical and territorial integration as models of cooperation and coordination, the development of a participatory model with the early involvement of the public in the planning and development of a culture of sustainable use of space. All this needs to be done in order to establish a single spatial planing practice and informative integration of catastra databases and land books, to connect with electronic systems of rapid issue of e-registration permits with the connections of electronic systems, etc. e-plans, these are the new generations of spatial plans and other bases that we have moving within the planing profession. Finally, it is important to stress that this strategy is primarily implemented through the process of developing spatial plans of a new generation of all levels from the state level where the state spatial development plan is particularly highlighted, across the county to the local level. Therefore, the character of this strategy is primarily directing and enabling spatial planer evaluation of variant solutions and finding optimal ways to achieve the general objective, concept setting and strategy priorities. The first such planing evaluation will be the creation of a state-run spatial plan, which is a strategy with its strategic orientations a legal prerequisite. Finally, in order to clarify the strategic guidelines for more equal spatial development and for the purpose of more precise guidance and planning of development needs, and in fact technical alignment with the new transport strategy, amendments have been prepared, 6 amendments that have been agreed at the level of the Government and that will be before this House is voted on. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51358	Thank you very much. We'll cross over, I'd rather ask if the committee reporter would take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, will speak to the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51359	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Meštrić and Director of Matkovic Institute, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. It's an extremely important document, so let me introduce what I say every time, which is that I think it's absolutely about the document and the importance that the Secretary of Resort would be good if he were with us and in such a way that he would give support to this strategy. Otherwise, this strategy has a very unusual path. There two years ago, in 2015, there was the final session of the Parliament before the election was closed and the strategy passed by the government, it came before this distinguished House and unfortunately it was the conclusion that only laws were passed and not a strategy, and then the strategy fell a little into oblivion. Behind that were the elections, the new government, of course, that the new minister had some doubts and then the strategy went all the way across, got all the consent in Prime Minister Oreskovic's government and after it came to this esteemed House for adoption, the government of Prime Minister Oreskovic fell. And now the strategy comes the third time, it also gets all the consent, of course that during that period there are some harmonisations, it gets all the consent and it comes to the Committee on Spatial Planning that I was still chaired by, and I'm making a joke and I say try to bring this strategy this time and turn to colleagues from the Most and HDZ, don't let anything happen so it doesn't happen, it was the day that Prime Minister Plenkovic very easily told his secretary to resolve these ministers to me. I must admit that I am extremely pleased that the strategy is still at the plenary session and this shows one fact, with us it is usually an opportunity when you are able to do something by ruling, then you estimate that it is good, then some sort of same or similar thing when you are in opposition to the assessment that it is bad, I will not do it. This is about a good, quality document that we base on doing business the way we need to do it. The result of this strategy is that a decision can be made on a state spatial plan and start with a state spatial plan. Of all the existing 28 countries that are members of the EU, all have a spatial plan except Croatia. Unfortunately, we lost two years, but I once did say that the Law on Spatial Planning seems to be insufficiently ambitious, but given the path that the strategy has gone through, it will take time for the state spatial plan. This strategy is a continuation of the strategy that Croatia has adopted, i.e. this esteemed House of '97. The year, which had other basics, some other ways, then the country was really devastated by war destruction and it was thinking about space with another basis. The basics that are being considered today are absolutely different because all the processes that have taken place have moved on and it is good that the strategy does not have a date. If you notice, this is a strategy that has no date to be valid until 2020 or 2030, it is very flexible, it is very open, it speaks in favour of what the spatial possibilities of the Republic of Croatia are. Equally what is important in this document, it shows Croatia's commitment to a strategic and integrated spatial planning system. Otherwise, in spatial planning as well as everywhere, you have modernization, so you have sectoral planning, you have more sectoral or integrated, this strategy is about integrated planning that unites a series of things and a series of elements. I'm going to refer through this exposure to a few things and a few of the topics that I think, not wanting to reduce other topics, but which I think are extremely important. It is an extremely important part that speaks about infrastructure and infrastructure development. I once said somewhere that infrastructure facilities, infrastructure buildings are extremely important and they're invisible. You know, those wires that go underground you don't see, you don't see all those systems that are, and that's something that's extremely important. You have to invest a lot of energy, time and resources to do it, and you have to invest invisible, so-called. Invisible projects give you the possibility to use space because each space is incomparably more quality and valuable and you know it, from communal space to the one that is not equipped. Similarly, in the Homeland War Croatia faced the fact that the important infrastructure corridors were violated for the simple reason that they went through the territory of some other countries and Croatia must be independent in terms of their infrastructure and infrastructure sustainability and that is something this strategy speaks of and something that this strategy also defines. Then there are some conditions for which we have defined ourselves but before saying a few words about it, a large part, or a good part of the strategy, speaks of climate change. Climate change is a fact. Mr Trump is inclined to talk about that the climate does not exist so that, in the second step of nature, she will deny them herself and show how she is doing. Equally, climate change is a fact, we face them, we face them in the phase of life, but we also have to face each other at the planning stage. When planning space, especially when it comes to infrastructure facilities, we need to take care of it. Likewise, we must keep in mind when certain construction areas are planned, take care of the floods that we are involved in and which we will continue to be participants. Something that Croatia can traditionally build is a long history of spatial planning. When in some neighbouring countries of spatial plans there were no or no Croatia had spatial plans, the largest generation of spatial plans in terms of defining construction areas was created there in the 1960s and they all referred to 2000. I had a chance out there about 10 years ago to be at a meeting in Hungary where I really boasted and I really had a reason to brag and a long, really tradition of spatial planning. When it comes to Zagreb, the first spatial plan in Zagreb was a regulatory basis from the end of the 19th century and therefore some parts of the city were created and other cities could be used as well and we should boast. Furthermore, there is one document that did not come before the Parliament because we simply did not have legal frameworks and legal opportunities, but Croatia was in the first third country to adopt a politics or architectural policies. The government has adopted this document and this document talks about the tradition of construction, about the value of construction, about how public space is used, how public content is used and planned, and absolutely, I appreciate that this document is also listed in this strategy because it is something that not only is a document but something that we can use in real life and in real life takes care of it. When you read a chapter that speaks about the starting point and the concept of spatial development, then there are several topics. One of the topics is the affirmation of policing. Croatia has certain comparative advantages in space, has comparative advantages towards other countries, and we need to stress that further. So there's this strange shape that some people say "kiffla," some people say birds, but this strange shape that we have in terms of infrastructure is really financially demanding, but in terms of some elements and politicntry of development, we are extremely good at quality and good. Then he says in the starting points, says easing the pace of the depopulation of the most endangered areas. It's something we're meeting, something we can record. But we also have a theme in a strategy that speaks about some new economic opportunities. Things change in real time, people deal with some new technologies and some new things especially when it comes to the economy and employment. What's worth today, it wasn't worth it 10 years ago, and in 10 years, it sure as hell won't be worth it. And that's why it's good that the strategy in that part is flexible for the simple reason not to be limiting that it gives development opportunities in a way that it really is very open. There is something that is extremely important to us and that is the identity of Croatian space. Croatia, therefore, is a problem for you for some time, but for some time it is a virtue for you, there are several spaces that are characterized by a certain type of construction. You have a busy village in Slavonia, i.e. Podravsko, you have a part that is the Gorski kotar with its specificities, that I do not speak by the coast where there is a difference between our northern part of the coast and the southern part compared to the tradition of construction and that is something that we must continue to make use of. Something that's a moment and something to take care of is that you've skipped spaces or abandoned spaces. So when you travel a little to Croatia and you see little of the situations that are in Croatia, then you see that we have really in the context of certain cities skipped spaces. Skipped spaces are parts where there was once an industry that moved to a place where it was cheaper, where certain cities didn't know what to do with it and in their development they skipped them. In Zagreb it is a classic area of Trnje where Zagreb in its development skipped the Sava River and went with Novi Zagreb to a new space and Trnja remained overrun and it remains for the resolution of future generations. Similarly, at the level of Croatia we have a situation of abandoned hospitality tourist complexes, we have abandoned and space used by the military. I think the Vis Island, which is now quite a lot in the media for shooting Mama Mia's second part, is quite attractive and it's said about it, but it's really one of the shows, it's one island where the military went and where we have abandoned military spaces and that can be some kind of new value. I've always been in the process of spatial planning, and I'm going to always bet that first and foremost we use abandoned spaces, we use places that are devastated, and only behind that we expand and expand construction areas in a way that they're some kind of new, unoccupied space. It's actually these brownfield investments that certainly have a future. The other day when we discussed the abolition of that unfortunate Real Estate Tax Act, then I set an example of Haludov and an example of how we really need to ask ourselves about that space that is not used, which has already been devastated, which in the construction view that when someone goes along, it will certainly be cheaper to destroy it than to adapt and reconstruct the existing. So that's an extremely valuable space. In the 1970s, this was an example of architecture that was published in world scales. Somewhere out there as a young architecture student we used to go on a visit I thought I had to take out that I could even walk those spaces the way they were. However, they are now abandoned, and this is something about values that we need to go back to. And what we're participants, we're participants in an illegal construction that's been in these areas of ours. When you analyze a little why illegal construction happened, then you have a number of reasons why it happened, but that's for another topic, and that's when we talk about the law on legalization, that is, the retention of illegally built buildings in space, and I hope we have a law that will also enable the legalization of infrastructure buildings. Because in infrastructure buildings, believe me, there's a lot of them that are illegal. But this strategy also speaks part of which speaks of the recovery of space. Somewhere where you have completely new illegal settlements, and we have these that have been created either on valuable agricultural land or on valuable forest land, these settlements through a future generation of spatial plans, you have to, you don't have to become building areas but you have to give a few elements of how these people who live there eventually get some reconstruction, upgrade or upgrade. But for parts of Croatia you have absolutely when you visit you can come to the street. You have 20 houses that are illegal, which you can't even know because they're built by their quality and by their gauges absolutely appropriate, and let's say the space where you can't get your permits anymore. The time has come for those parcels that are empty or on which we may allow them to get their local, or building permits. Because I end up being absolutely supportive of this strategy. It is an extraordinary pleasure that she came to the Parliament, if she had been accepted by it, perhaps there would have been such a little more intense discussion. But it is a valuable document and a basis for Croatia to start making, to work out its state spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51360	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, he's the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51361	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've made a lot of notes, but there won't be time to ask myself some questions and some conclusions to express. Well, anyway, it's very good that the strategy will be adopted and that we'll finally get a state spatial plan. What I'm afraid of is that all our strategies eventually fall into the water especially because we don't follow them ourselves. We had good laws on both construction and construction land and a lot of things in the past, and what we tried to get rid of was that Law on Legalization, which is illegal construction. I'm afraid that what we're bringing here today may be insignificant to us tomorrow if the trend of some illegal construction continues, and we are personally witnessing that this is still happening, regardless of what is in force, is quite another legislative regulation. Legalization as such, if it was a question of someone's life to build a garage, I don't know, expanded some living space for life has another logic. But if the motives were to do tourist apartments on agricultural land, holiday homes, and later, we voluntarily exposed it to someone for income and zero kuna value, so we turned the buildings into hundreds of thousands of euros, then it seems to me a mistake. We know that it might not have been possible to make a distinction between some objects or in law perhaps the happiest solutions, but we did it. We also did it for Croatian citizens, but we did the worst for foreign citizens who today enjoy our agricultural plots a few dozen meters from the coast. And I think there's one big problem with this whole legalization process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51362	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51363	Thank you very much. So I can absolutely agree with you. We can have the most ideal laws in the world, just depending on how we apply them. We should apply them. And we must also be prepared if we have some legal regulation that we conclude through implementation that it is inappropriate, that it needs to be changed and complemented, not stubborn but changing and supplementing. This strategy was made, so I spoke very openly and very flexiblely several times in my presentation. This means that it gives opportunity and that it will not prevent the adoption of both the state spatial plan and all other spatial plans. She's given all the spatial possibilities. First and foremost in infrastructure and then all other elements that Croatia can develop, and Croatia will develop in relation to certain economic flows that are going on. However, it is really very difficult to talk about not talking about the Law on Legalization. The law on legalization left no one indifferent. He didn't leave those who were legally building or wondering we were legally building, going to get all the permits that we are now second-class citizens. These can be more simple to legalize. Those who legalised, who said the EU did not know, spoke about Hungary, Serbia, about Slovenia which were actually false or semi-truths. That's where you do it differently. We decided on this model that proved to be a good model. No matter what, I still have a grudge today. But when it comes to agricultural land, we really do have something that P1 has entire settlements. And now you have two situations. Either to allow it to be legalized and to say the fact we no longer have valuable agricultural land for someone else or not to legalize it. And non-legalize means to crash 1,000, 2,000 buildings and return P1. I'm not sure anyone in this country is gonna crash, Italy has it, the military or the police are out, we haven't decided on that model.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51364	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Guannia Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51365	Dear colleagues, at the end of your presentation, you touched illegal construction. You said well that this is a strategy that is a comprehensive document, which has its points, illegal construction is just one part of the segment. But I do believe that when we talk about planning space and keeping an extremely valuable space in the Republic of Croatia, then there is a moment in which I will not return to the Law on Unlawful Construction, because it is the time behind us. But I would like to stress that in Istria, the lawless construction of the boom, it does not stop and definitely, except that it spends space, which reduces its value, actually creates additional costs of the local community, because what you are, if I did understand you well in your presentation, said that tomorrow we also have to worry about the basic elemental infrastructure needed for these buildings. We have to ask ourselves a question and come up with an answer as to how this unscrupulous move, which continues through lawless construction, simply stops. Because what's proven and confirmed on the ground so far is ineffective. The building inspection isn't teamed up enough, not only isn't there enough, but they don't have any material resources, and we definitely all have to invest strong energy to put an end to it. Because this all together, what you said yourself, on agricultural land buy a small economic facility, build a villa, with several hundred squares, with a pool, buy for a couple of tens of thousands of something, and sell for a few hundred thousand is definitely something we need to talk about very clearly and openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51366	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51367	Thank you very much. I somehow deliberately left the subject of illegal construction for the end of my exposure. There's a little bit of us, it's afternoon, we were working without a break, our colleagues went to lunch, so I kind of figured as soon as we mentioned the illegal construction, we'd all wake up a little bit. Irregular construction is a fact in Croatia. I was in this respected House, in another composition I heard when it was that law. He says it's a traditional self-building. Then when I asked what was traditional self-building in Croatia, then they told me during the weekend, you find friends and buy construction material and build a floor or build something. In a country that really takes care of itself, and once you break space, you break it forever. There's no one who when he knocks it down it'll bring back the value of the space that was before. And then there's the same case for you that approximately the last year of your term of office construction inspection doesn't exactly come out. And then when the new composition of the administration comes, it's just as weak to get out. States, other countries are struggling with this. Indeed in Europe, Scandinavia doesn't know it, the way we know it. But Mediterranean countries, Greece, Italy, or, let's say, Spain, which is mentioned well knows and has the possibility, even in real-time satellite videos, you can see when someone is illegally building. This job as a building inspector isn't easy. You have to blame someone here, but it is the only way to get out on the ground, when you crash something in Istria illegally or do not know in Zagreb or anywhere, all of Croatia knows it and it is one of the methods that you have to work and must all the time building inspections go out, watch what is done, bring solutions. But I've always stood up for it, and I'm going to bet in the future that it's falling into the ground when it's the slightest devastation and you can just do it. As far as I have knowledge in the ministry is preparing an e-inspection project, it's going to be a good project that's been standing here for two, three years. I hope it will be restarted now, and there will be one reason why we will reduce lawless construction to a minimum.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51368	Thank you. The next HDZ representative's club on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. What I will first say is that this is practically the first strategic document of spatial planning in Croatia since 1997 when the Croatian Parliament adopted a basic basic strategy of spatial development that is practically still in place. This strategy as well as the spatial arrangement programme adopted in this House in 1999, which I will say also a little later, was practically the basis for the development of a number of spatial planning documents in the Republic of Croatia. I must mention that the creation of Croatia inherited a different territorial structure, which meant the division of Croatia, seems to me 105 at that time, of the former large municipalities, and that by the 1993 law, this territorial structure was changed, which was later complemented by the new municipalities of 1997, but,,................................................................................................................................................... This system was set up in 1993 in the units of local self-government and regional, i.e., the county was established in 1993, and then this strategy that I mentioned, as well as the spatial planning programme, began to create all the space of planning documents at the level of Croatia. From such a strategic commitment and arrangement of the territory in Croatia and related to the new territorial structure in Croatia, it started on the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning or Construction, or already a copy of the law as it has changed since 1990. It started with the development of spatial plans of units of regional or regional self-government, the county then cities and municipalities, and spatial plans of areas of special features, general urban arrangements, urban planning arrangements, detailed spatial plans, implementation urban plans and arrangements and plans of settlement arrangements. In any case, thanks to these strategic documents and laws that I mentioned earlier, today what is important is the Republic of Croatia covered by a whole network of spatial-planned documents that define the operation in space at a higher and lower level. So that information might be well mentioned. At this point in time, 3032 spatial order documents that arrange more detailed or less detailed procedures in space. When I was already talking about this Strategy of Spatial Planning and the Spatial Editing Programme, then one of the fundamental approaches was to define building land, which I think is actually one of the fundamental values of this strategy and the documents that come from it and especially related to that strategy that was adopted in 1997, which is that the planners are ordered to especially explain the need if the project is planned for building land per capita of more than 300 squares. And there was one basic criterion in which it started when it came to the development of county spatial plans, urban and municipal spatial plans for the arrangement of municipalities, or cities. Based on such one approach, the total construction area was reduced in the Republic of Croatia today compared to what was covered by the space plans of the former municipalities of 1990 by around 17.5%. So although we started to reduce the building land by around 17.5%, according to one report I read, which was done by the State Office for Spatial Planning and Planning when the entire building land in Croatia was realised, what was built so planned in Croatia could live somewhere around 6.5 million inhabitants, and only in Adriatic Croatia about 3.8 million inhabitants. So I am saying this for the reasons that despite the fact that we have also adopted the Regulation on the protected coastal area of the sea, it was later passed in law, and later in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, and then the Law on Spatial Planning anti-ciprocated all of the provisions and regulations in which the protected coastal area of the sea is defined have significantly limited the expansion of the building land, given that it has significantly limited the production of new tourist zones, however, it is necessary to stress that we still have significant areas of the construction area beyond the needs of the population of the Republic. This is one of the key elements that I think has started to draw up this strategy and should also be taken into account in the future. Let's just say one example that needs to be pointed out, in 1961 somewhere in the Adriatic region of Croatia there were total construction areas that occupied the entire Adriatic coast about 150km, in order to be about 1050km in 2012. So in 50 years, we've been in need of justifiable, unwarrantedly expanding construction land along the Adriatic coast seven times. So these are the challenges that I think we have to come up with at the beginning of what I said, it's a spatial plan for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this strategy implies defining the principles of attitudes somewhere more, somewhere less detailed in access to the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, but what is important to me by 2019 is that by 31 December 2019, I need to bring this very important document which will be able to enable the implementation of the spatial planning strategy of the Republic of Croatia. This spatial plan, which changes the current Spatial Planning Programme in a certain way, should define basic state facilities, projects at the level of the Republic of Croatia in an infrastructure sense, in an energy sense, in terms of building social infrastructure, especially those relevant to the state level. So, I expect the State Office for Spatial Planning to come up with this important spatial plan in the Republic of Croatia, which would answer a number of questions that appear here and in the public in the Republic of Croatia. In my address and presentation on behalf of the club, I expressed my view that it would be good if we had included these two new spatial plans both of that epicontinental belt and the ZERP State Plan. This remains, however, according to the legal solution that three plans need to be worked out, here I accept that solution, but it would be good for both the second and third Spatial Plan of Development of the Republic of Croatia to be adopted as soon as possible, given the numerous challenges in the Republic of Croatia. What's good is that this strategy was done under changed circumstances relative to the earlier strategy. We are today an EU Member State and have acted in making this study according to EU documents so that it and the projects resulting from it can be a significant basis for the use of EU funding, so that it will enable and will be the basis for the development of a number of operational programmes for the use of European funds. It was also reading my strategy that fell into my eye, and I think Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash noticed that the strategy imposes a commitment, so I would tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Ministry of State Property, which is that in further development of certain projects in Croatia we turn to brownfield investments. And that's where I think when it comes to military, when it comes to the numerous resorts that are abandoned, the complexes that are abandoned, she mentioned Howe, I'm adding Brijuni, Muzil so the entire Brijuni area, or if we're going to talk about the Coopers who are still realised it's going slowly. So a number of these, abandoned military facilities, inspective military facilities, should in a certain way be the goal of our plans and, or investment so as not to further expand construction areas beyond, but spaces that are generally almost and elite in which there are now employed or unspective military assets. It seems to me that's very important. What seems to me to be a challenge in the government and the ministry is a response to the need for urban membership in the Republic of Croatia. We have left our new legislative solutions in part justified but this lack of a good legal basis for entering urban cohesion makes it very difficult to realise some of these 3032 spatial planning documents in Croatia. I understand what is the problem of defining urban cohesion, which is what its realisation is, but also here and in this document, we must mention the need to make new state geodetic measurements, real estate and land books. We will not be able to impose ourselves in Croatia as a country that is friendly to investors, regardless of which they came from abroad or are our domestic domestic investors until we solve this early cancer most important records in the Republic of Croatia, which is a record of a catastra and a land book which is largely still based on the measurement that was made during Austria-Hungarian in 1830, so here is almost 200 years to work, that we have made one of the records that is too important for Croatia. I've said it many times that in the Republic of Croatia, there are approximately 5 billion kunas a year to register assets that are mobile. These are today's vehicles, they are for ensuring these same vehicles, paying for technical checks etc., etc., while for the property that is most important in Croatia, that is real estate, that is land, that is buildings, that is infrastructure, we haven't allocated more than a billion kuna from 1990 to today, and I say that here, every year, Croatian citizens I think about 6 billion kunas single out for the whole of that, these records, that kind of movable property, not to say real estate. What is good is that the strategy also deals with the issue of the mitigation of negative demographic processes in Croatia in such a way as to define infrastructure corridors and energy corridors in order to contribute to this one balanced, regional development in the Republic of Croatia. So, we at the HDZ Club are going to accept this kind of spatial order strategy anyway, and it's one more step forward in terms of existing solutions, but in order not to remain a dead letter on paper, the ministry really has to move towards creating spatial planning documentation. Finally, I wanted to look back at the illegal construction, since I was a minister then in the government and wrote that first law in 2011. I agree with everyone who has said here so far in this debate that illegal construction is a certain activity in Croatia when it is not sanctioned or not sanctioned in the way it is necessary. The fact that we have made orthophoto footage since 21 June 2011 which means zero state. The fact that this zero state allows very simple building inspectors to determine whether there has been anything new in Croatia in any building plot since then. But it is also the fact that, for the reason that we have not hired enough people in the building inspection or for the fact that we have been overly involved in legalisation and under the Law on the Law on the Law of Law-Making of illegally built buildings, or the Law on the Law on the Law of Law-Making of Construction of Buildings. Well, maybe there wasn't enough political will, but at this point I think it is, and I'm witnessing it, so I'm pretty much going around Croatia especially in Adriatic Croatia, in my county in Dalmatia down there, I think the problem of illegal construction is very pronounced again. It would be good for the ministry to initiate the procedure to stop illegal construction because the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings almost represented general legalisation. That real general legalization was made possible in 1968. We have, with the 2011 law, which was later amended in 2012, yet little has been determined by the premises in Croatia that are so valuable that we cannot make them a general legalisation, general law but it happens that now and where we have been prescribed by law that it can never be legalized even there is going on a step further with this illegal construction. So as we talk about the Strategy of Spatial Planning, we need to make sure that all these efforts that are being made in writing the strategy, writing spatial, writing, drawing up a programme of the spatial plan for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and a number of small spatial planning documents at the level of cities and municipalities, we are witnessing that there are still illegal constructions beyond them, which makes this job almost immaterial, regardless of why we will support this strategy in the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51370	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51371	Here's a respected colleague, since my parliamentary club Mr. Tulio Demetlika will look back at the Strategy for a moment I would remain on the subject of illegal construction but not in any way in order to polarise with you, but to invite you to share a problem that is very serious and to find a systematicly concrete and efficient solution. I'll be free to say that the Law on Legalization actually inadmissible form of behavior has been legalized in a way that today it has become almost something that is normal, where individuals allow themselves to build at any time at any place what they like and like. That's what we have to articulate, and I want to make that clear. In the resilient values of this strategy proposal, in the last sentence, it states, among other things, that it is our duty and obligation to keep the space in a sustainable manner. We definitely need to come up with an answer and find that we do not have a systematic solution regarding sanctions of illegal construction, that we do not have tools and what has been confirmed on the ground, when illegal construction is established, when a record is made, when a construction inspection comes in and when the last piece of paper is sought from the resort, the competent ministry, that there is no removal of these buildings, such paper and such response is not available. Very often, the answer that we find is that there is no money, I hold that the synergy effect of whether the local self-government that finds money in its budget or state can be returned through court proceedings because they have experience and I stand behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51372	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51373	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were a longtime mayor of Rovinj, and surely when you talk about illegal construction, you know very well how illegal construction is, but would not agree with you in the part where you say that the Law on Legalization has made an additional mess of space. In fact, the Croatian state, I mean not only Croatian, are numerous countries in our environment, they had almost identical problems of illegal construction. This country couldn't go politically, socially, socially, economically, financially, however you want to go into a project to bring down illegal objects. We didn't make general legalization in the design of the projects. We have defined which corridors, which are spaces, which are areas in Croatia where there is no legalisation, that's what I said. Did we do too much of this, and less of what happens after that in space, on the one hand we allow legalisation and on the other hand we did not send a message hard enough that this story was finished with the old 21st of June 2011 when the space of Croatia was recorded. I don't think it's too late yet, that you've rightly noticed, we don't have enough resources, tools, personnel, but that the ministry must really take it seriously at this point that it's easier to stop illegal construction at the beginning. When the three-story comes up, it's much harder to break down, much harder to solve this problem than when it starts with the foundations to get the inspector, the badgers, the stops, the fines, and they bring down one of the illegal constructions. So she's the problem and it needs to be solved right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51374	Thank you. The next one is the respected representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, here is what my colleague Taritash said about those skipped areas, so brownfielded investments, etc., there are, in any case, I welcome this in a strategy where the great emphasis has been placed on this particular problem and I think that definitely Croatia has to deal with this problem because that is the problem. We had this, when I was running the tourism ministry, we called a few tenders just for such investments as on Brijuni Riviera Muzil, for example, down on the Dubrovnik Riviera of Coopers, etc., but what happens? Until the competition, we get some offers and we stop there and then a million problems arise both in terms of the public private partnership itself and in terms of the conclusion of contracts and unresolved problems, therefore, property-legal nature, etc., etc. So that should really take this problem seriously, considering, to get to a solution as quickly as possible because it's simply inadmissible, we're not so rich that we don't have that space. I'd just like to draw one more attention, and that's what you and your colleague Taritash have pointed out, these are architectural policies. So we had a situation about local self-government that the basic principle of planning is a square meter. Square meter for sale, square meter for charging the budget of local self-government, etc., etc. However, urbanists often only bring logic to a square meter rather than keep logic about the architectural historical heritage where what is planned. We have a situation for you to come to Istria or Dalmatia, so you have settlements along the historical cores, whether you can't recognize it, whether it's, I don't know, in Pula, Dubrovnik, some place on islands or maybe somewhere in Nova Gradišca or Sisak, it's all the same to you, don't care about the historical settlement, and I think that when such a sin makes space, it's incorrigible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51376	The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kleman, I would agree with you almost entirely. The first thing about brownfield investment. That is what I said, a large number of facilities along the Adriatic coast and not only along the Adriatic coast, in all of Croatia there is simply a basis for further development of investments in Croatia. So, not only is investment not taking up new spaces by entering such places, but it is often solved to a large extent by these abandoned, abandoned, ruined facilities, infrastructures. So, on the one hand, it's costing the investment. As a rule, these property-legal relations have already been resolved or have been decided to further accelerate the realisation of the project itself, because the strategy is defined, pointed out, it is to welcome and I think it is in a certain way and would say the instructions of the Ministry of State Property, so if you want the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, because it is generally very active since it is a concession of maritime goods. So these are the projects where I see the fastest realization. But you're right, and on the other hand, you're right, that so far we've had a few unpleasant experiences when we talk about the realization of these projects. Either the investor didn't take seriously enough what he expected to give concessions or a coffer, which is, in this case, the Republic of Croatia or is involved in some kind of document that I don't think is such a nature that it would not allow for a quick realization. In any case, it happens that when and when we go into that investment, then we testify that it does not go as dynamically and as intensely as we expected about this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51378	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51379	Thank you very much, President. Well, here's my colleague Bačić, I've been listening very carefully to your debate, and I'm going to look back at two topics that you've touched naturally on this legalization because we're talking more about the legalization that happened than the strategy itself. But well, it's also a segment, one of the segments, and I support the fact that, and so it was in the House that the law in question was to be passed because I am the number of requests that almost came close to the millionth number confirms the same thing. Unfortunately, I'm the only one from the continent who's been discussing this issue. I had a different perception thinking that simply by adopting a new law, people realized that there was simply no more illegal construction. But obviously the reason is different, because in our continent, the standard is much lower and unfortunately people don't build anything. Fortunately for you, it is different at sea, but I believe that simply by means of a legal apparatus and, of course, the greater penalties and consequences, and even the most rigid destruction, we will simply have to stop that bad trend that contributes to the devastation of space. And secondly, here's what's mentioned is what's your profession and what you know is that we certainly need to strive for a new measurement and certainly, the more to the extent that we determine, the more we align with the grantine. But I'm afraid that's also on the continent that's the problem if the units of local self-government do it,... cities, so here are the municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe 90% of them don't have the financial capacity to do it anymore. I'll just remind you in my county of Bjelovarska-Biogorski that only one of the municipalities I know has done so far is one of the richest. For others, it is simply an unfathomable dream and, unfortunately, without state resources, it will not be possible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51380	Thank you very much. The next line is, excuse me. The answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Babic. I've only singled out the last minute and a half of my 15 minutes for illegal construction. No, it was my priority to talk something else out of this strategy. But it is the fact that it is necessary to highlight free construction not for that reason at least for me. The fact that we have passed the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings rather than what, although we have brought it along, this illegal construction continues primarily on the coast. Even to a large extent outside the construction area. So there's a need to react because it's going to happen to us that very quickly the number of these illegal objects will spread at a geometric rate. So that's where you really need to react to stop it. You mentioned in your replica the state measure and the real estate cadastre. That at the moment of three and a half thousand catastrian municipalities in Croatia I think 350 are covered or finished. Of these 350, I think it's a hundred and there's a new cadastre, a new Earth Book, a new measure, and the remaining 250 are either measured or exposed. There is an additional problem that must be led by the resolution ministry, but it must include a stronger ministry of justice, that the commissions carrying out the presentation work faster. Because it happens that so much time has passed since the beginning of the diameter, measured to the formation of the earth's book, that the practical state you measured at the beginning is not due to a number of changes that don't fit when you created the cadastre and the Earth Book. That's what I said and that's when the director of the state geodetic administration was there. It's one of the main tasks of this ministry, not to say it's the priority of the State Geodetic Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51382	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51383	Vice President of the Parliament. You've been in politics for a long time, and 20, 25 years, you're probably talking about construction, legalization, legal, illegal construction. Let's just say there was a shift, there must have been some kind of shift. However, it is no longer an illegal building issue that needs to be sanctioned anyway. It's a question of legal construction where they have a building permit, they have everything. Then when you go looking for those certain certificates and some kind of how to say some of the certificates you need to have. So one that has a building permit complete he needs one 20 confirmations to prepare for him to put it in and go into the store. We know that these last ones, so we can say a hundred years off since Austro-Hungarian stopped practically doing nothing in that part. Now, here's the thing, probably because Europe squeezed and you said you had to do the cadastre, the granite. However, I also believe today that our ministries do not work fast enough and do not solve some problems that can certainly be solved no longer sit. People wait for certain papers for 15 days, 20 days, 2 months, 5 months, a year I don't know, and they have legal construction. Well, that should speed up and cut down on certain papers. I have an example where in one village where all the houses are and one crying is in there. A man needs 20 permits, and even from a military station that's a mile away from a building permit and they're all built houses around. Well, that's absurd, that has nothing to do with it. And then this is 500 kuna, that's 300, that's a thousand and so on. So it's bullying the performer and harassing people who waste time on some kind of unnecessary stuff in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51384	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51385	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Misic, so he would agree with you that as much as we change here and the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction and the fact that we covered the whole of Croatia with spatial-planned documentation, and then as you yourself said when his property is clean, when he is enrolled in the garnery one through one of the properties he is building is still often long, you say the rally. I don't think it's cheap, I'll agree with you, it's not cheap all that together, but it costs the most when it takes a lot. There is, perhaps it will be the State Secretary himself, there are examples where already provided that you or your designer or the one he represents the documentation, it goes somewhere relatively quickly, somewhere it goes slowly, but a man or an investor when going into the project he does not count on just the day he submitted the application for permission because then he has already met all the conditions but he counts on the moment he went into that investment that it takes him very much. And that's where I agree with you. It is necessary to take a step forward so that Croatia is not in 75th, sixth or 80th place on that competitiveness list. We must further shorten these procedures. This is one of the very important reforms for me because without this reform there is no quick investment, there is no, I am not just talking about investing in the construction of my own houses, but there is no such reform, no faster procedures, simpler protocols then there are no more significant investments in Croatia or wherever and where they are harder to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51386	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS-PGS and LRI Representatives Club, the following will speak for the esteemed representative Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary with an associate. Surely here is to come after this speaker and talk about this topic after former and Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash as well as former Minister Branko Bačić is a little ungrateful, but here we want to look back at this strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. I will express my satisfaction and joy that this proposal finally arrives at the benches in the parliamentary procedure because, as already said in 2015, this proposal was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately because of the instability of the previous government and early elections only now comes to us in a parliamentary debate. But I'll say better than never. As the Secretary of State said, surely this is a valuable document that will define future development in our space, taking care of all those values that we in the field of the Republic of Croatia have from environmental protection, sea, air, country, natural wealth, cultural wealth, surely and guidelines will be good, but I believe that through that document too, it will avoid potential discrepancies with other documents. So, like most of the other strategies we discussed in the Parliament, this initial strategy gives a good overview of the current situation. This document shows the state of space in the Republic of Croatia, the Institute has done very well, an analysis of the existing situation and certain guidelines. As you've heard, this strategy is the basis of that. provides guidance for the creation of a new spatial plan of the State, i.e. I'll call it the state spatial development plan. It will define certain strategic projects. Through all the already existing strategies, I'll cite for example. The regional development strategy that is now in the process of adopting new, the Tourism Development Strategy and similar are defined by many strategic projects, these projects are also expressions of certain wishes whether local, county or higher levels, but the question is how realistic these projects are being realized in time and financial terms, but what we have established they are also not in line with the current spatial plans. You have a lot of strategic projects that are listed in the strategies, and there are simply no strategic plans, so we certainly support the accession and adoption of a new spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible. So what we've seen is that I'm gonna make a little joke, small municipalities have one administrative department, maybe we're a small country, best if we had one ministry. For which reason I am speaking because this very horizontal cooperation between the relevant ministries in the adoption of certain strategies is not harmonised and we often come into conflict. But there is also a lack of coordination and insufficient co-operation between the ministry and vertical co-operation towards the counties, units of local self-government. That is why we believe that this new spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia will be one of the most important documents for the rapid implementation of strategic projects and the withdrawal of funds from the eu funds because we see that today it is simply going hard or by no means, and normally all according to the guidelines set out in this Space Plan Strategy. As I said this topic must be very important, unfortunately in the afternoon and when you should talk more about it there are few of us in this assembly, but I will also for a short period of time because only 15 minutes we have to try to direct my exposure in my opinion on a few important topics. This is the first, environmental protection, which I will also link to energy, transport infrastructure, especially maritime and rail transport and waste management and the function of unused state property, as mentioned by esteemed counterpart Bačić. When we talk about environmental protection and energy efficiency, it is important to highlight the issues of supply and radio-active waste and the reduction of gas emissions. If we weren't just talking about Plomin in Istria, I'd mention first the Krsko nuclear power plant where it's just not yet developed the concept of taking care of that waste. Further, natural, radioactive materials that require regulatory supervision are located at 3 locations yet. Along with Plomin in Istria, Kaštel Sučurac and Kutina, resulting from coal combustion with increased levels of uranium and radio, i.e. the processing of phosphorus ore fertiliser. Management of natural radioactive materials is also planned at locations where it is located. It shall mean, on the basis of the full resolution programmes developed and in accordance with the safety standards for radiation protection and environmental protection according to the requirements of the applicable regulatory system. According to the specifics of this regulation, this waste will be taken care of in existing locations, in a way that affects the environment as little as possible. However, the question is whether it will be enough and whether it will satisfy the local satirism that with that waste in those locations lives. We often say in the assembly that here we are, when we entered Europe, that we have adopted certain rules of the game, certain laws, certain charters, and certainly one of these is energy efficiency, and as such it is increasingly taking a more important position in the investment policy of domestic and state institutions and units of local self-government and business entities. Often in the assembly we hear certain dissatisfactions when it comes to renewable energy sources, about energy independence, but the fact is that we also lack energy strategy, and that is one of the most important documents. However, the protocol and the Energy Charter signed by the Republic of Croatia and entered the Charter covers 5 broad areas. Protection and promotion of foreign investment in the energy sector towards national interests, free trade in materials, products and equipment related to the energy sector in accordance with the World Trade Organisation rules, free transmission of energy through pipelines and networks, reducing negative environmental impacts, increasing energy efficiency and the overall energy cycle. These mechanisms for resolving disputes between states and between investors and states, which you state secretaries also said in the introduction. However, the Energy Charter clearly recognises the importance of energy efficiency in all parts of the energy cycle as a mechanism to reduce adverse environmental impacts. Therefore, at the same time as the charter, a protocol of the Energy Charter on energy efficiency and relevant environmental problems was adopted. The signatories have committed to establish a clear policy to improve energy efficiency in all parts of the energy cycle, from production through transport, energy transfer, to distribution and end-use, with a basic goal of reducing negative environmental and energy impacts. I think that particular segment is certainly important in this strategy of ours. As pointed out in the strategy compared to Western European countries, there is a significant space for improving energy efficiency in Croatia. But the question arises, what have we done so far, how late we are, and we feel, that, as in all things, we are very late and we are losing significant resources. But I love myself like this, because I come from local self-government, to serve examples of good practice, as we signed these charters, to achieve those goals from the charter I will mention only the 20-20, we all know what I'm talking about, and I'll say for example one small town, the city of Labin from which I come, which is among the pioneers in implementing the project of energy reconstruction of buildings, and we know that building is exactly what gives the biggest CO2 emissions to our action plan by 2019 will save the energy of 8506 megawatts. And the CO2 emissions are reduced by 2,000 tonnes. I will mention that the value of the renovation of several residential buildings in the city of Labin in 2014-2016 was the investment of 20 million kuna. And in the rebuilding of the family houses, $1.1 million. I'll mention that projects and public lighting and setting up an electric car charger, that I'm not talking about an installed power of 700 kilowatts of solar panels for electricity production, which on public buildings, is in the private sector. This is precisely why I cite this example, because I confirm that investments in energy efficiency, which is a prerequisite for the commitment and initiative of local self-government units, which are in the closest relationship with their citizens, which, by their efforts and education of citizens, can achieve a great deal in the importance of energy efficiency. However, it is also important to introduce into the national strategy the same values that will just encourage local self-government units to act accordingly. What I'm going to look at for a little while is traffic infrastructure. Looking at the documents and looking at the cards of the stamp, what worries me about the development of this transport infrastructure, I mean the maritime and railway in Istria County, but I will also say in Primorska goranska, because already we talk a lot about the river-Zagreb railway line, but we are still status quo. Whether it is the Croatian railways are unable to implement the project, but the fact is that our proposal, which came from Istria County, is related to the fast track, connecting Pula, Brsica via Lupoglav, whether to implement the tunnel and connect with Rijeka. But what's even more important to us is calling with Central Europe, and these are the paths you've been planning, but I don't see it in strategies. We forgot about the Bršica port in that infrastructure. We have two ports of importance that is Ploče and Rijeka and we forget about our northernmost port that has been in operation since the time of Italy used to transport coal. After the maximum capacity of Kopra and Trieste, it is the only port that enters the Mediterranean Sea, deep into the Adriatic Sea, and with the development of this port we are certainly developing great opportunities. It means what I used to do before the port of Bršica and the railway line and the fast track in Istria County and for the transport of passengers as well as for the transport of cargo. A secure topic about environmental protection, which is also taken over by Europe, which is waste management. I will only briefly mention that any change in government, by changing ministers, by changing the Director of the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund, are changing strategies, changing plans and simply calling into question the project's own implementation to the end. I mean, Kaštjun and Marinščina, but also blocks of other projects that just don't come true. And any change that has been made by changing these laws simply blocks further development of projects. So I think with such strategic documents whether the government was left or right tomorrow, whether or not it fell but on a local and state level what is strategically important should be defined safely. Finally, since it was about this speech, but certainly Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash mentioned not to enter new spaces but to use the maximum existing facilities, restore, put into operation. Mr. Bačić reiterated it, and I will repeat it again, that it is safe to put into office of state property, and that is what we from IDS keep repeating whether it is Muzil or other military facilities, but also other objects that are under management. Whether it's abandoned factory halls or hotel complexes simply they die from day to day and it's dead capital. And I'm sure those devastated former military areas that are falling apart don't serve anyone solely because of a state that allows it to fail. We can also mention agricultural land that is not processed and I think it is in this strategy that we need to consider opportunities and develop forms of land-owned giving for local self-government and county development programmes. It is certainly necessary to do so, and the necessary prerequisite for this is the adoption of a new Law on the availability of state property, which we expect a lot in terms of efficiency and implementation of precisely these guidelines from the strategy relating to the development programmes of the unit of local self-government and county, because this is the only way to place unused state assets in the function of developing and creating new values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51388	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. First the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51389	Thank you very much. Well, for the most part, you'd agree that space is what we have most important, and strategy in space is the most important thing. You mentioned the thermal power plants in your area, including the Krško nuclear power plant and the possibility, meaning waste disposal, means environmental concerns that need to be crucial. However, the fact is that many strategic documents also pass investment that people do not know about, in fact investments are good but harmful projects are passing. You have noted in your area, I will mention again what is most important. It is the Peruca thermal power plant located on the largest pool of drinking water. It is also in strategic documents at the county level and at the level of local self-government. But I think such projects that will basically hold a whole system for... It's a 500 megawatt thermopower plant that's going to subsidize, so we're not going to protect the environment and we're still going to subsidize that harmful project, so from our citizens' pockets because it's subsidized will be energy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also under renewable sources. So we have a huge problem, that's what you said most of the sustainable development. So, there are no consistent spatial plans with sustainable developments, and the typical example of your thermal power plant that you're listing is typical, and most of all here is the harmful thermopower plant on Lake Peruca, i.e. On the river Cetina that I repeat is the largest spring, the largest pool of drinking water in this part of Europe 570 billion liters is the water in Lake Peruca itself, meaning the source itself. And this really is the most serious question. What we have, we have space and we want to use it and therefore I agree with you completely that the tribune exclusively watch the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia in space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51390	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51391	Here is my thanks to my colleague Buljo for and support for environmental protection and care I will say the radioactive waste we have at the location of Plomin. However, when I listen to you and your replicas, you often like to say that we want to be independent in everything, but also in energy. So we want to have our own sources, we want to have our own security of supplying citizenship, industry to everyone who needs energy. And you see, unlike you, we fought in Istria to shut down the coal power plant, but we offered because we know we needed electricity. We've offered a replacement facility to redecorate a thermal power plant. Now, thank God it's closed because there's been a fire, and there's gas to be used. And in this very strategy, the proposal of this strategy states that you can build thermal power plants on gas, but also cogeneration so that it can be used for both warm and cold to be said and that it means we are like, I will say responsible citizens of this country, offered to build because the gas pipeline passes close and so in the spatial plan of the Istrian County the thermal power plant on gas is foreseen. Surely with the management of new technologies with protection measures, citizens must be aware of any document, whether it is a spatial plan or an energy strategy, when such projects are introduced into some environment should be cautious, they should be public, transparent, but the fact is that electricity needs us, and we want to be independent as you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51392	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51393	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Demetlika, in the very first part, you spoke of the discrepancies of spatial planning documents or the non-compliance of spatial plans. Indeed, even when you talk about Istria, there we also knew the problem that was with the spatial plan of the Istrian County and indeed the documents are incompatible with each other and then the document of the wider scope is applied and this certainly leads to trouble. And I am therefore pleased, this strategy is a very flexible document but from it should be a state spatial plan. According to the state spatial plan, it really needs to be taken into account and public debates must be not only at the county level but at the level and larger cities in certain counties for a simple reason, the state plans but the area is the territory of a particular municipality, of a particular city, you will from that, which will be held in a spatial plan or have a benefit for future development or not, but by adopting a state spatial plan we will actually encounter this problem of non-compliance, this problem that we had in county plans where one road goes in one county, the other in another, but at the borders they do not meet. So these are the problems we've been having. Two years in a country's life or in a man's life isn't much, but I'd kind of like to be a lesson in this, two years we've been waiting for a strategy for formal reasons. Therefore, it did not essentially change from 2015 to 2017 except for some of the amendments that we will see but without it it would be possible to implement. So, what we need to do is, we need to take care of the state spatial plan because it will read out all of the things that you are through the debate, and sustainable development and the possibility of building up, but it will be re-implemented at the level of one municipality or one city.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51394	Thank you. The answer to Demetlika's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51395	Here's a thank you. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, surely we agree in everything, but what we are concerned about, and this has come out about just the adoption of a new state spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia where the minister said that the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia will be an implementing act and it will be possible to come up with a building act directly from it, which means that no major state and strategic projects will have to be necessary to access the changes and additions of county, city and municipal plans. Now we've said, public debate, all right, but if the state determines that, I'll say thermopower station Plomin 3 of strategic importance, no matter what's in the spatial plan of the Istrian County and the Municipality of Krsan is not foreseen there the thermopower plant, the state will be able to issue an act on construction itself. Now this procedure simply, I understand that certain strategic projects that are important to the Republic of Croatia cannot be small municipalities, mayors or mayors with their council stop development if, however, it is certain that it is necessary to respect the procedure, public debate and that the citizen knows what they are getting, and what they are losing with the realization of such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51396	Thank you. Now we have several Istrans that will replicate the same. First is Honorable Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51397	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Tulio, I've read from your presentation that you're saying that the places that are devastated as military property or that fail that we can't possibly allow it, and I agree with that because, let's say, dead capital. The purpose is no longer such and should be used, given proper re-use. The only thing that I would give our ambitions is that we don't try to solve everything and define the whole space because there are future generations that may have different needs and we have to leave them some space, not that we define everything. The second reason why I responded to the replica is, you mentioned, you should acknowledge your achievements as regards the installation of solar panels, whether it is for the production of hot water, whether it is for the production of electricity and I think it is not only good to encourage foreign investors in this story but rather that there are more than 180 billion kuna saving citizens who could, with the appropriate guarantees, be potential investors and ultimately, if they do not have jobs, if they have no permanent employment, have some source of income or at least a reduction in their costs. We, unfortunately at this moment, are surrounded by Maribor, have more solar panels than half of Croatia. That means we're fat behind, and I think citizens are potential investment potentials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51398	The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51399	Thank you. Here's the thing about just entering new spaces, as we heard, that space should be protected, unfortunately the demographic image in Croatia is what it is and the fact that there is no need for new spaces. But I will confirm that attitude when we also brought in 2003 a new master's plan for tourism development. And then through three variants we defined the one that has the least planned construction. So we force or we say we conditioned new owners of existing hotel companies to renovate and renovate the existing ones, so we planned the capacities in ten years from 200 grand to 220 thousand, meaning minimal growth, putting existing objects into operation i.e. A rise in quality. Also when we talk about military facilities, if we're talking about Muzil, there used to be 12,000 soldiers sleeping on that Muzil. Today, if there were five thousand accommodation units there, it would certainly be one capacity existing that would be used without entering new spaces. I think that's where we agreed. But what I'm saying for investment in renewable energy sources, what happened in Labin, I can say that all of these were just domestic investments. What is one good part of the city has invested along with the fund and another part of domestic private investors. However, this is also the frequent change in the law that does not give investors sufficient security and since our citizens are familiar with frequent changes to the law do not engage in such investments because today is one situation, and the other day is another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51400	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51401	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Tulio's, therefore, one of the main tasks of this strategy is just to give a review to invest in the Republic of Croatia, so also to state large infrastructure projects, but also to those less than local from the county and to municipalities and cities. But we have one problem that seems to me and your club has touched, you will know it very well because longtime mayor of the city of Labin was successful according to my assessment, which is the entry of the DORH or the state into particles, urbanized particles, building particles of local self-government units and even the streets in the cities themselves. And then the question arises, when we plan something, determine what the construction area is going to be, we go to some competitions, we put it in public, and suddenly we realize that we are no longer enrolled, but that we have a dispute with the Republic of Croatia, so we have our country in some potential investment space. This seems to me to have to be resolved as soon as possible because it is inadmissible in the further process of attracting investments in the Republic of Croatia. And also definitely plans must be brought into line, i.e. building laws and cataster laws. You have today that the Construction Act has allowed a public private partnership, so it can be built on a joint plot when a private investor is defined, for example, taken in a concession of building rights, and when you come to a situation where you have to get a useful permit for that building, you have to combine both particles with a completely different legal status. These are great complications and this raises the absolute question of letting some building into operation, let's say an example of some kind of catering-tourism complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51402	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51403	Here's my thanks to my colleagues for the replica and the questions asked. I'm sure this may be the most interesting thing you've said, and about the operation of the DORH. State's attorney's office. In fact, as representatives of local self-government units, we often remain surprised because we are planning an investment, making the subject of documentation, and then when we extract documents from the land-book excerpt, we see that the state is enlisted. And the state says we're protecting the state's interest. The State's Attorney's Office shall act in the capacity to protect the state's interest. And we often mention that on the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government whether it is a state and a city, whether it is a county, whether it is a state of the municipality, meaning we are in a hierarchy in my opinion the public sector is a state administration and we need to take care of this state property. And certainly after what the State's Attorney's office is registered, we have to initiate court proceedings to prove that it's property of the municipality or city, and that's where the investments themselves are stopped. We believe that now and through the Ministry, at least that's what was promised, the Ministry of State Property, that these things will be simplified. But what you said about the merger of cadastral particles, surely here are the competent persons who worked in the ministries, and the problems that you have mentioned that cannot be built on two different cadastral particles, and the unification in one is often the problem because of the unresolved ownership issue, and there is also difficulties in the realisation of certain projects itself, and that we do not say which problems we bring investors themselves with their plans and the implementation and realization of the projects themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51404	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vedran Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51405	Thank you, Vice President. Respected promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are discussing a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia which is a fundamental state document for directing development in space. In the debates so far, I have been extremely pleased to see that even in the climate itself and in the topics that we are discussing that this strategy will be believed perhaps even unanimously accepted. I am saddened by the fact that a colleague of Mrak-Taritash warned that it took us almost two years to discuss it now,...is finished because when we look at the document itself he, of course, looks much, much more professional than he is politically, and it turns out that we need a policy to bring such a document to every society and every politician, here in some way defeating that we delay such things. I would also like to point out that this quality document itself was adopted in an extremely positive way when we look at public consultation, or debate, we see that it included almost all the counties, many cities, state-owned companies, and that both extensively and qualitatively corresponded to all, the good, most of the remarks were accepted or partially accepted and thus demonstrated this flexibility of the strategy itself as it should be. We bring our documents slowly and hard. A man would say that we are a country of 200, 300 million inhabitants and we as a small country should certainly be dynamic. And this is why this is why there is again an ugly fact that we are, and here is what the only country in the EU has also been warned about that has not brought about a state plan for spatial development. So here's what I'd be interested in if my proposings told me when we bring this strategy in when we can expect it. I realize it's not a text that needs to be typed on a typewriter and brought into this procedure but I'm certainly interested in what deadlines we might expect it to be. Also when adopting a state plan of spatial development, I wonder what it might be like, is there going to be a lot of impact on county spaces again, plans that will then be, which will affect spatial plans, cities and municipalities so that we do not again come into some kind of maybe story that all of these things need to be coordinated and changed or that we will again come into some kind of divide that the mass of cities, municipalities, county did not do so. Here's what I was very interested in. You've got a lot better knowledge of that than I've got. And here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash also said she's glad there's no time on the document that's worth the strategy, but I'm on the Ministry's website among other things, you wrote down the following. So this document sets out the general objective or vision of spatial development by 2030. respecting the development points but also detecting priorities, orientations and frameworks for implementation. So in the same sense, I support the fact that he doesn't have a term of duration rather than being a document that accepts everything that happens to us in the coming years, we react faster, we change it, we become a dynamic country, not a trom and slow. But OK, most of what was the problem in 2015 is that today, although here's what we're talking about demographics, unfortunately, we're witnessing an escalation of these problems, i.e. emigration and the problems we're going to solve. I'm not going to go into more detailed discussions about legalization and I don't know what else this law has produced. I'll just say the SDP club of Croatia will support the strategy's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51406	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51407	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić and I graduated from the same college with many years of difference and there somewhere on the 3rd year you get colleges of spatial planning and then on that college of spatial planning and when you're a young student tells you that spatial policy planning is. And then you think he's saying something unreasonable and what he's talking about and then in life you learn that that's the way it is. And this document is politics. And this document shows what a country's policy is towards space, what the country's development options are, what the country's priorities are and what direction the country will develop further. And that document really should be looked at. When he worked intensively there in 2015, it was absolutely illusory that the strategy was written on him until 2020, at the very least it was not good. So we were kind of thinking about that 2030 code year back then. And you've also asked a few questions about the state spatial plan until when it is thought to be passed, that whole state spatial plan procedure will be, it's not complicated but it's difficult. It's hard because you have to do a series of environmental impact studies that you need to work on, impact on nature, conduct public debates and everything but this difficult path is worth doing. Croatia had a spatial plan in one other environment, another system. We were up back in '94. the law decided to have a programme and strategy, it proved that it was not good and Croatia must indeed have a state spatial plan but the policy and planning of space would obviously be politics and the adoption of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51408	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51409	Well, here's my colleague, thank you for answering my question, but here I am still an optimist, and I believe that in the adoption of such documents as the strategy and the spatial plan in the first place we will still have the profession, that everyone will be involved in the adoption of the same, and I believe that by doing so we will not remain the last when we adopt state documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51410	Thank you. Now we're moving on to individual ones. Therefore, the first came to the attention of Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51411	Thank you very much. Dear Proposers, we are talking about the strategy of spatial development, means space as the best thing that the Republic of Croatia has to use in the best way and we are witnessing it. And, of course, environmental protection, means sustainable development. However, the fact that it is not so far, we are bringing in one document, whether it will be applied, whether there will be brakes of various interest groups from the lower levels to the levels of executive authorities, we will see which of course they have brought into this situation, particularly that energy system where we see that today and wind power plants, the wind that God has given us the subsidy we pay to foreigners. And unfortunately, I will have to go back to the largest drinking water pool where through the Vis Viva project it is never mentioned that there will be a thermopower plant but a reversible hydrocentral which is environmentally acceptable, but since it is a private investor, and in the 12 months it is on the space of the largest drinking water pool in Croatia and beyond, it is the Peručko lake where the damage has already been done before the construction of hydrothermia which is not the only one on the plum, meaning Cetina because Cetina is one of the largest electricity producers. We have this accumulated lake where it wants to be built now, so it's intended to be built, i.e. The project to pass as a strategic, it's a thermal power plant project. I must say once again that I am disappointed by the fact that what we cannot get is an answer other than a roar from the executive authority here on the issue of the Vice President of the Government of Martin Dalic, which I have asked, we did not get any answer because scientists found out that in the Vis Viva thermal power plant project, I can't be surprised that someone wants to build a thermopower plant on the largest swimming pool I repeat, drinking water. 580 billion liters of water only Lake Peru, with it being heated by the lake, the scientists made it public, that it would be harmful, the exhaust gas would be about 700 kilograms per second, studies say about 640, scientific ones later physicists, Mislav Cvitkovic, chemist... which came out of the data that there would be over 750 kilos of exhaust gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's questionable. It means everything. Here is the question of this ecological, first it is ecologically unacceptable, it is economically unacceptable because the gas is otherwise much in Europe is no longer used for electricity generation, as a combination of, so for heating it won't be possible to use much, according to studies 8%, say around 1%, but it is a huge project, 500 megawatts reversible, 500 more, so 1 megawatt will go to privates and our HEP products throughout Croatia, it needs 4.2 megawatts. So 1,000 megawatts, so 25% is the project itself. Therefore, the project was not mentioned as a thermal power plant. Last month's environmental impact study came up suddenly, a thermopower plant appeared, of course it is an obvious conflict of interest because it is the husband of the foreign minister, deputy prime minister of the government. I asked here in the conference room, I didn't get an answer, but I got from the other vice president a terrible muddying here, never recorded, but we need to talk. We have 20,000 signatures, we have scientists speaking publicly about this environmental impact study, even in that environmental impact study it was said that Ruđer Boskovic was making the institute, that it was nicer for the people to hear, but later on, Ruđer Boskovic, only one person from Ruđer Boskovic did it with one forty... means within the entire environmental impact study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And such projects when endangering the largest pool of drinking water where now the benefit of half a million people with that tends to Jadro, now a Splitian pool can use even water, it is today in the spatial plan. This is what I use because all the strategies, all these papers that we bring, are obviously stronger interests. The conflict of interest in the former government is nothing against this conflict of interest. That's why the Deputy Prime Minister, though I was there to speak, warned, and now I'm saying it's nothing to this conflict of interest. And even the lawyers of the Vis Viva project, the reversible hydrothermia... The owner of Zoran Buric, the husband of the minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is a lawyer's office that sends threats to landowners and these are mostly people who are legally unsigned, elderly people, it's under Dinaro, they send letters where they tell them if you don't pay at the price we offer, we'll exclude it and it's not a strategic project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now imagine what we're going to have to pay, who we pay, how people get harassed. In the worst totalitarian regimes, it didn't work that way. And that's a beautiful space. So it's the hinterland of Split, the Cetina region is a huge space that must be used for tourist purposes, as the former minister used to say earlier, to develop tourism. Eco-production, yeah, we're into projects. But that's why those people who gave their projects, who would hire them. funded by European funds, 250 places only in eco-production, organic food production will fail because they will not be able to get a simple license to work, to perform this eco-production of food. It's two entrepreneurs, only 250. But they are called here to stop us from investing. Yeah, let's put solars on 100,000 houses, that's 500 megawatts of electricity. But he won't. Of course. In addition, in the river Cetina, HEP has made its reversible troughs on Kameshnica, which has been placed in the drawer as a project and is pushing private reversible. Although the reversible nobody mentions as harmful, it itself is not harmful, but HEP have its own, who's interested in giving 25% of our energy to a private and who's behind it basically? Em, what's going to warm up Peru and the Cetina River, what's going to be a river that's going to be yellow, will no longer be this river that we know and what the whole Central Dalmatia is going to be without drinking water. So what do we need this strategy for? Who are we bringing it for? And who's going to be the owner of the investor? You don't know that either. You don't know, but he pushes, pushes, he can't even set the sweat here in the Parliament. So if we bring this document and we treat our most important resources like this, it's water, air, the environment, of course, that we're trying to invest, if we have the sun, then we need to invest in a solarium, not give a monopoly to one man to whom we're going to have to subsidize the gas, we're going to have to pay more expensive. In the EU, in larger countries, thermal power plants are also being destroyed for environmental reasons, and it is no longer cost-effective for economic reasons. All of a sudden in Croatia, it's worth the gas. 700kg of exhaust gas in the air is 2% harmful. Di found it right in the Cetitna region on the largest pool of drinking water. As it occurred to them, I don't get it. They didn't get enough of the sun, our islands. Just to put solar panels on Last's island could produce more electricity than with these harmful projects, but of course lobbys, gas lobbys, those lobbies and sorrows to me the fact that we can't ask us as Parliamentarians, fellow parliamentary representatives, I'm asking the prime minister, I'm asking this precisely because of this whole story, the vice president of the government here, I don't think I can even realize that someone like that can react if she gave direct support to that project, before it became strategic and what has passed the Environmental Impact Study. Now these are the documents we bring and the strategies, and the best we have is space. Unfortunately, it is exclusively suitable for stakeholders, as I said in the example of TE Peruca and others. So why don't you think of a project like a fast road connection on the highway of Cetina krajina from A1 or Vrgoraksko end or the Imotski end to get you a traffic connection? No, it's a harmful TE, so certainly in other areas. We have options, there are solutions to others, but we have to preserve sustainable development, what God has given us, and these are strategic resources, we have agricultural land, we have water, we have clean air, we have for the development of energy, and these are solarians, wind but for the benefit of us, not for the benefit of foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51412	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51413	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, in your debate you have brought forth a series of worrying data, one of these data is related to the construction of a gas power plant down in your area and now listening to you on one side, I haven't been very detailed or I haven't read environmental impact studies that you're saying will warm up Cetina. We all know down there what kind of river it is, what wealth it is, that it will be yellow you said etc., that there will be very harmful consequences to the environment. On the other hand, we listen to Minister Dalic, who is in charge and the minister of Mr. Pardon, who can't remember exactly the energy of Ćorić, we listen to those who say it won't be so and that it is in the interest of the end, etc., that it will be good for the Republic of Croatia and for the stability of energy during the tourist season. That's what the mayor of Split-Dalmatia says down there. So it's amazing to me that people come to Ćorić and Dalic they're to say that the state level, but the local level that runs out of HDZ representatives who support that policy, how you interpret that they've resisted the fact that they're pushing it out, or here's the mayor and the mayor, they're all on that line against which you're really down there, and I see a lot of people in the Ceti area fighting because you haven't had a few people gathered in protests against it and we see with just the lake how many citizens actually don't want it. So what's the truth first? What they're saying or what you're saying and how do you interpret that they insist on it no matter what their people want differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51414	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51415	Thank you very much. Yes, the Split-Dalmatia County did not want... this declaration against the project of construction of the Te, the City Council of Sinja accepted except the HDZ council members who did not vote in favour of the declaration, but was accepted and will be addressed with all these allegations of opposition. The fact that 20,000 inhabitants of the Cetina region signed a petition through the Association "Don't Give Up Cetino", most of those 17 thousand are online and sent to the prime minister and to give an answer. And I've sent the parliamentary question both in writing and verbally to the prime minister and I'm not getting any answers yet, and neither are you citizens. First of all, there is no division down there regarding the people, the peoples, the left and the right, down from the Franciscans for the first time, the Provinia Franciscan stood so clearly and loudly behind in protecting the river Cetina, publicly meaning, from associations of civil, defence policy options. Unfortunately, the declaration in the county has not passed, I have suggested it,... that it will call up the thematic session is just another document, and this is the Study of Environmental Impact, meaning another document of the sea. And it's extremely dangerous, if scientists say he's dangerous, why wouldn't I believe them? If it did not appear in public that the "Vis Viva" project would be a thermal power plant, and it appeared in the impact study when it was a public debate and if people are unique against it, that it is harmful and that it threatens the development of the Cetin region, and it threatens the strategic resource, which is drinking water, and we will pay more expensively. So imagine, economically invaluable, we're going to subsidize that gas that's going to pollute actually that whole electricity process we're going to pay through the subsidy. So physicist Mislav Cvitkovic, gentleman... people who deal with this and other Simunović and others who deal exclusively with this aspect cannot believe. He says it's the biggest crime ever committed. I'm sorry I didn't get an answer here from the prime minister and his, and I didn't even ask the vice president, she attacked me for no reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51416	Thank you. The individual debate will now be held by a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a strategy which is one of my most important strategies for the Republic of Croatia, a document that strategically determines the development of our space and how we will manage it. And he's in his settings, based on those things that matter. So from the very space to the natural resources, Croatia dominates it. It dominates certain things that many European countries can only dream of, there was something just before talking about it, air and water, unfortunately, sometimes we don't do too much to preserve and protect it, here I can say, that, for example, as far as the air is concerned, we haven't done anything in the last 6 months since I referred the law that regulates the issue of oil delivery to the Bosnian Ship, which directly pollutes the entire area of our Posavina County. Thank God that law comes to the agenda on Friday, we'll have this debate and then some conclusions, I hope the Assembly will accept it because it's in the interest of our people, and it doesn't limit anything, Janaf to continue working with the Bosnian Ship, but I mean that although we adopt certain documents, we conduct certain discussions. We are doing little to stay as we are, to protect both the environment and the space, to lead like this the wealth that Croatia is among the first in the EU for drinking water supplies, to keep it going, to invest and to follow it means the infrastructure that is developing quite slowly in Croatia. It is very important, of course, to have good cooperation at local and state level, so when we talk about the city of Zagreb, I am not the happiest, since in the city of Zagreb there is a space, there instead of some logical and normal development of the city, usually dominated, small interests, partial interests and projects ad hoc. Here, now we see the last project the mayor imagined with Sava to Bundek, the theme park. I have no objection to that, but there is always an individual entrepreneur or entrepreneur who earns five times more money than she has invested in buying that country and always this entrepreneur or entrepreneur has a link with the city administration, i.e. the mayor or his associates. And that's the rule. Unfortunately, space and country and planning are inevitable and part of business and we need to take more care of transparency and would also like our legislation to regulate certain things in a much more transparent way. Because how else do you explain that someone buys 10 or 7000 square meters by a private country, past Sava, and after 4, 5 years, here's exactly the country in the middle of that park to build a theme park. So there may be someone who is very visionary, i.e. has certain things and abilities to predict, but quite often this does not happen in the city of Zagreb in a transparent way, and that is why I warn here. Another thing is the context of Europe, that is, our environment. Croatia is within the framework of specific projects the EU takes care of. The first is one project that is related to the countries of the Danube Strategy, i.e. the Danube Strategy, the Danube region, meaning through which, all the countries through which the Danube is going through, they are also bound by the Black Sea, from above Germany, meaning on this side Europe also recognises the spatial policy, i.e. something that connects us in certain things, as the value of something being developed. Croatia must also be aware of its advantages, which is certain to be on the EU's side of the Mediterranean, that it is closest to the eastern markets, as I would say, to the supply of goods and that we should develop and concentrate in this direction so that this infrastructure can be developed as efficiently as possible. On the other hand, energy is something very important, but I agree with Mr. Bulja not at all costs and not in haste. Because this is probably about a project that has a certain value and that may have been more current 10 or 5 years ago, and now there are other alternatives. So we, as the country is determined, for example, are going to build a terminal on the island of Krk, energy and thus supply gas. So there's that possibility. I see that the president, quite active in her policy of space and she introduced it is called a peddler, uh, a term that should be corrected though, we still don't know what. From the Adriatic to the Baltic, energy doesn't make much sense in the project, since Baltic countries and those up are doing their energy independence, they are doing LNG terminals. So I doubt that they'll get gas and energy from the Republic of Croatia, or the ambition that we're going to do it with Poland, also convinces me that it's a certain perspective, so I'm a little skeptical of the warden, I think the correctional will probably end up at several international meetings and showing off with Trump, but good. Let's just say that every initiative is worth it, if nothing is realized, it's at least worth discussing. So we also have to take care of our environment, about geopoliticals, about how we're going to develop space here. And on that side I have no objections to this document, especially I would like to take care of how our people, where our people live. Unfortunately, we have Croatia that leaves thousands and thousands of people every day. In the past year alone over 100,000 people have left Croatia and that is one information that is not alarming but I do not see what is a bigger problem in Croatia than that. There is no bigger problem than that, nor in the area of economy, crime, any health care. The biggest problem is that people are leaving Croatia and this should be taken into account when making strategies especially Slavonia, which has been devastationed and practically raised this Osijek airport over those of our people leaving Croatia. And there we need to be honest and not run away from it, get used to certain statistics on the number of unemployed, we need to look into each other's eyes and say that this is the biggest problem we have and try to solve it and maybe try to solve it with such long-term documents that will allow it to then invest in certain parts of Croatia because what our area will stop practically being inhabited. Here we have huge areas that are without people, I say Slavonia, which was once the richest part of the region with the most valuable people, now it's slowly running out of people. We see down like, too, here's something my colleague Bulj was talking about and the Dalmatian Zagora, so there are areas that unfortunately remain without our people and we have to do something to change that. Of course, such documents can contribute. Unfortunately, I hear some noises, but I don't really know where they come from, so. So, at the end of my debate, I'm supporting this document, and I think it's comprehensive and high-quality. I hope we can take care of all the problems I've been talking about before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51418	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51419	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Maras you mentioned the city of Zagreb in your presentation when it came to the strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. Last week, the city of Zagreb adopted the City of Zagreb Development Strategy, whether or not believed by 2020. Although the law says that through its strategy all cities should recognise, say, 5, 6 important projects and for the city of Zagreb it would be good to recognize the problem of waste or traffic but it is not recognised but it has recognised 15 real estate projects that have been recycled as such and have been in them for many years. One of them is very interesting and the congress centre mentioned there from 2002 to 2005 is in the city of Zagreb alone I worked and we were coalition partners and we broke down the coalition because of the location of the congress centre and then we arrive in 2017 in the Strategic Development Strategy of the City of Zagreb again we have this same congress centre. This in other words means that the city of Zagreb is interesting when cities bring some of their strategies, they should be a role model. The city of Zagreb is unfortunately not a role model for some other things, nor is it a model for this Waste Strategy because very shyly there are words on two pages you have the opportunity to see about this strategy how much it is about waste and how many times we have mentioned it. And when it comes to the development of the city of Zagreb, we have 15 recycled projects. Well, the one you mentioned on Bundeku is an example of how you don't work, i.e. how according to certain Hollywood films when you have certain knowledge buy land of one value and sell tenfold more to the city, so there is always a question and what the city of Zagreb is doing there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51420	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51421	Thank you very much, I fully agree with you in the city of Zagreb is a situation in space management and problem solving, although there is a problem that always solves and solves something. Unfortunately, it doesn't work out almost anything, so we're all witnessing that transport infrastructure was invested almost nothing if we remember these latest projects that were related to ZET and trams, that's it. But unfortunately, nothing travels faster than it did ten years ago. In the city of Zagreb, there is not a single virtually new bridge except that which was built there towards the airport but then after the bridge is built then for years after that, a nearby infrastructure is built. It also shows what the Working Road looks like today when you go there in no, I would even say not at the time of the crowd, but at some normal time you can't go there to the bridge at least 30-ac, 40-minutes in a few kilometers. So there's no strategy here. Around this congress center that you mentioned I do not know which city in the world, the metropolis in the world, will work in the very heart of Zagreb, in the center of the city congress center when it is clear that we will all have a problem again that we will not be able to reach it relatively quickly, that the traffic and the volume of cars will increase. So all normal projects that are done outside of Croatia, take care of it and usually it's somewhere I wouldn't say even on the periphery but somewhere where traffic can be relatively fast and safely reached, it's certainly not the city center. And unfortunately, this always raises suspicions that this is done to fill a part of the capacity of the service, i.e. the hotel which will then benefit the most from it and the citizens will have great damage because there will be a great crowd in the city of Zagreb. And on this side there are a hundred more examples that are not right in Zagreb, but unfortunately we would need one special point at the session of the Parliament, which I do not know if it is possible at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51422	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51423	Thank you very much. Here we agreed that this strategy is very important, what we have is space. However, the question of whether or not it is necessary to bring a strategy at all, I had an example of the asphalt base of Lomnica, it seems to me, a settlement in Velika Gorica, it is 300 meters from the water supply station that New Zagreb, the entire Turopolje, that part, a dozen meters from the houses, kindergartens, not far away, I don't know how many daily tons, it's a huge asphalt base, so it was right there by the water station and by the settlement, no matter what people protest, no matter what the mayor of Velika Gorica and the parliamentary representative do not know if he is here at this moment, but I know that these people have received a promise before the election that they will have the local problem solved them. People called me, I went there as a parliamentary representative because I think it's a public good public good, that it's our space, it's the same as usurping the beaches, so at this point people are usurping the asphalt base, usurping the air, the clean environment. Amazingly, kindergarten is near, some hundred meters which is the first in Croatia seems to me like an eco kindergarten, like a day from more beautiful kindergartens. Home of health. So what's this management of the space where the asphalt base works in the middle of Lomnica settlement? I've been with people, people are bitter, people don't know how to solve or who wants to listen. I'm talking about local self-government. I guess the local board doesn't work or is attached to the mayor in Velika Gorica. It is the same for you, until people join in, it means to protect the public good, whether on the island, whether in Dalmatia, or in Velika Gorica, there is nothing for Slavonia, and all of these strategies that are beautifully written, and certainly and noble, the goal of all strategies, but the fact that in space we do not behave, that we are working against the interests of people and against the interest of space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51424	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51425	With Lomnic, I am relatively well aware of the problem that is there, while I was still chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, I asked Minister Dobrović, then he was still Minister Dobrović to abolish the environmental impact study, to stop any work there, to hear not only one more time but to see if it even made sense there. I think like most people who are relatively well aware of the situation that it doesn't, but we see things going further and I find it amazing that Mr. Barisic doesn't react at all. So there's nothing in public or communicating there with people. The other day I watched on a TV contribution about how bitter people are and how they are communicated at the level of deputies or employees of the city administration who say that there is not too much hearing of their problems and what is the problem there, not only their, unfortunately the quality of life that is threatened and which is not good in Lomnica itself and in that part of the great Gorica, but also water stations that supply the eastern part, or southern part of the city of Zagreb, means that more than 100 thousand people can be directly threatened with the pollution of these water drains that supply them. So that's where I wouldn't go lightly over those remarks that people justifiably make and tomorrow the problem can be 10 beats bigger. And so I ask that, I have never received an answer from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy, I ask that something be done and that people meet again and that the whole case be audited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51426	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51427	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Maras, you mentioned in your debate and called certain people visionaries who knew at a certain point to buy land and after 4.5 years that it became significantly more valuable than it was at the time of their purchase. That's how you allege that there's some kind of corrupt or criminal activity behind it. I would say that essentially any spatial plan, new spatial plan, or urban or alteration and addition of the spatial urban plan foresees either a change of purpose or even an expansion of the building land and that any plan could then be talked about just as it is. The legislator proposed that the municipal chief, the mayor, be mayoral. It goes to a public insight, it goes to a public hearing. After that, all possible consent should be obtained from a number of ministries and numerous bodies, thus being brought by the County Assembly, the City Council, or the Municipal Council. I wonder how to make changes so that we can be sure that some plan or a customer is declared a visionary or someone who used such opportunities because he was good to the head and how to protect himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51428	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51429	Thank you very much. It's hard to protect. So that's where I admit in advance that you can only protect yourself that citizens sanction the irresponsible head of the city, or county or municipality, because one thing is, I accept that there are people who invest in real estate and buy cheaper and then based on all the available data assessing whether somewhere there will be a chance that the country's value in 10 or 15 or 20 years is worth something more and these are legitimate projects. People buy 20 years ago, explain to the local community the possibility of projects and eventually when these projects reach a certain stage, most often these projects sell for the final investor and it is a legitimate business but when you have a situation to raise the value of the private country, not as it is expanding, but as a particular one in this project, which we were just talking about, in the middle of the plot is a private country that bought someone 5, 6, 7, 8 years ago, knowing that probably someone might have whispered that the city would invest something, without that parcel, land, and now we're coming into a situation, and it's been bought, it's been bought, when the value of property in the city of Zagreb was at the highest level. And now, although the value of the property has not yet been done in 2007, that country is worth, I don't know, 10 times as much as it was worth back then. It's simple, as I'd like to tell you, someone has to draw you what it's going to be to buy such a plot. Because otherwise no one would buy the end of the dikes, potentially nothing can be built there, no one would buy it unless you had information. On that side, people, I guess, when they see it happen 50 or 100 times, they'll probably just take one look at it and see it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51430	Thank you. And the last replica, the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51431	Now, fellow Maras, speaking of the spatial development strategy, you rightly warn of eviction. Because indeed, what we're going to develop is an empty space. That's completely pointless. I don't know, did you notice that there's no such thing as moving out? from Istria, he's not even from the Primorian-Gorski County. Most people are moving out of Slavonia, moving out of like, from the Dalmatian mountain. So, with the space operated by HDZ. How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51432	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51433	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic. I noticed this trend and one phenomenon in essence. It's a Croatian phenomenon. So, where HDZ runs, unfortunately, people move out. But the phenomenon is that, for example, their parents in Slavonia are voting for HDZ again. So that is, I would recommend, unfortunately, it is an accident of these people, and it is terribly difficult for me to see that, in fact, those parts of Croatia where it is really the most underdeveloped part of Croatia, under 20 years of the leadership of a party, but still people vote. It just needs... What's the reason? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People really, as you might say, I have one theory. It means '90s. In the year when most HDZ skipped, I'm sorry, most of the SKH skipped to HDZ, then it started out as if in the wild west, taking up space. So people moved, so first from the Communist party to HDZ, then to the DVD, then then to the local sports club, and so the space just took place, and now it's very difficult to change. You know how the less developed parts of Croatia work. There are people connected through these organizations, which HDZ staged in the early '90s. People should simply be told that there is something better, to look at Istria, to look at the City of Zagreb, which is not ideal again, but is much better than some other parts of Croatia. They look at the northern part of Croatia, there's a possibility of getting better, you don't need people to vote nonstop for HDZ. That's just the message. Especially Slavonia. It's an incredible amount of unfortunately, accidents and suffering, and yet I say people here still vote again very much alike, just obviously not a clear enough alternative that you believe me exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51434	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary, Daniel Meštric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51435	Here I am thanking all of you distinguished parliamentary representatives for this constructive debate that has actually come out of the context of the spatial development strategy, but certainly these are the life problems that plague us daily and that torture us in the ministry, in thinking about how to make better laws and solve these problems. I also thank all clubs for supporting this strategy, which I repeat, it is directing and enables the evaluation of solutions and finding optimal ways to achieve objectives. But I might look back in that part of the implementation framework, at some four short points. First integrated planning. That's what Mrs. Anka Dark Tritash said, and that's actually the most important line here, the integral planning, so we're not leaving that system of integrated planning, we're not accepting sectoral planning, so sectoral strategies, we're going in a way, we're all saying, and then we end up agreeing what's best in that kind of spatial plan. Secondly, there were short speeches about illegal construction for us in the ministry, i.e. in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that for us the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings is over. So all those who thought they needed to legalize something, that they'd legalized it. What opened up here is definitely standing, it's so-called. The inspection, the construction inspection, which is now with these new lawless builders who violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry is in the high phase of preparing an e-inspection system. It was here and a note, but in thinking, you know that E sounds great, but in organising that whole system, we actually realized that we also have to do a serious reorganization of the building inspection that we have to personify that building inspector from unnecessary writing and that he has to actually do 5 or 10, 10 inspections a day, and that's exactly what we're going to do to disable that system of e-inspection. The system is a license that we're building an inspection on. And the results are excellent, you can get a license today, of course, if you're in the middle where the catastres are arranged, where the grantovnica is arranged you can even get in one day's building permit. So we've made everything possible. But I'm saying, now there's the part of the job that concerns all the other entities that are in the process of issuing those permits. The same procedure applies to construction inspection, and we have a lot of experience here. Thirdly, perhaps briefly on the catastrian measurements that, we all know that the big problem, we have calculated that at this rate of measurement it takes us 220 years. Big changes can be expected here. The Land Books Act is in preparation, not primarily from my ministry, but from the Ministry of Justice where big shifts are expected but also from our domain and the Law on State Measurement and Catastro where this continuation of land books is actually done. In particular, it is that some proceedings are brought together in the case of exposure, that those data that are identical in one book and in another book are no longer going to trial, that the judge no longer judges but simply says OK that's it. And that fourth is actually the most important thing that's been mentioned here multiple times, so that's the state spatial plan, i.e. State plan for spatial development. The strategy is orientation, the strategy is actually preparing for a state spatial plan that should include, in part, the infrastructure of state importance, the protection of space of course but also strategic projects. There have been many proposals here, however, good proposals, some have expressed concern and therefore now is the time for this state spatial plan to actually resolve all these issues. It will be meant to topple all plans, meaning both county and municipal and it will be a direct implementation plan for issuing permits. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51436	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused one replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51437	Thank you very much. My question is more than a replica. I didn't hear that at first, you might have said that, but here's what I'm curious about is making a strategy for whether or not a person or someone special from the president's office was involved? And how does this strategy actually support this idea of our president's about the principal? So from Croatia up to the Baltic. Here's what I'm curious about is whether there were any suggestions, ideas, suggestions, because it's to be expected if the president has such a visionary idea about the governor to Baltica that she probably took part in the design or at least suggested some things in the design of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51438	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Meštric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51439	I'm not familiar with the president's involvement. I say, all the bodies, all the resolution ministries of the state organisation, public authorities and scientific institutions participated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51440	Thank you very much. That's when we closed the argument. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51441	Well, then we can start voting on certain points. The first is the proposal for a strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are 6 of them, so please join and vote. I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to explain the amendments. With us is the State Secretary, Honored Daniel Mestrić and I would ask him to present all six amendments to the government and then have a united debate on all these 6 amendments. Only representatives of the representatives' clubs can participate in this debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51442	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. 1. The amendment refers to a minor correction of the graphic representation which is an integral part of the analysis of the existing situation contained in Chapter 2, the situation and processes in the strategy area. It is a graphic display of 2.16 stronger urban regions and spatially subject corridors, which outlines the lack of transport corridor of Varazdin and Krapina, which is important for the transport connection of northern Croatia to Zagreb and is also defined by the new strategy, excuse me, the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment 2 refers to the addition of text which is an integral part of the analysis of the existing situation contained in Chapter 2 State and process in the strategy space. The section describing the characteristics of the rail infrastructure in Chapter 2, point 5, point 1, is complemented by the transport infrastructure in such a way that the characteristics of the situation include the inadequate connection of the north of Croatia with Zagreb, which is an obstacle to evenly spatial development and is also defined by the new strategy for the transport development of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment 3 further clarifies the current text of the strategy. The amendment refers to the addition of the text relating to the need for the construction and modernisation of road connections towards islands and islands in subsection 4, point 3, point 1(1), the development of road transport. The addition of the text allows further research into the possibility of road connections between the island and the mainland and the island as well as the implementation of bridge and tunnel projects already planned for the current spatial plans of the county. And this amendment is a function of enabling evenly spatial development and mitigation of negative demographic processes. Amendment 4. refers to the addition of a list of projects or activities in Chapter 4, point 3, point 1, point 1 Development of road traffic and to the activities of construction of fast roads from the border with the Republic of Slovenia, via Koprivnica and Virovitica in the direction of Osijek, etc. Podravska fast road for connecting Međimurska, Varazdinske and Krapino-Zagorje County with Zagreb and the network of highways, etc. Zagorje fast road. The amendment is actually a continuation of Amendment No. 1. These roads are drawn in an existing graphic representation of the strategy and are only about further clarifications in the text that are in line with the texts of the new Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment 5 refers to the correction of the graphic representation 4.6 Railway transport in subsection 4(3), point 1, point 2. The development of rail transport which changes the graphic marking already previously through the planned railway strategy between Krapina and Čakovec in order to determine the correct planning category, which is defined by the new Transport Development Strategy, is the continuation of Amendment 2. Amendment 6 is also related to Amendment 5 and concerns the addition of a list of projects, i.e. activities in subsection 4, point 3, point 1, point 2, the development of rail transport, the activities of determining corridors, high efficiency railways, i.e. high speeds with a view to more efficient integration of the north with Zagreb and other railway networks and is also harmonised and defined by the new Transport Development Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51443	I thank the Secretary of State. And I'm opening a debate on these amendments. If no one is answering, then I am closing the debate and we are going to vote, so I am voting on the first amendment of the government, please vote. I find that unanimously with 110 votes for this amendment adopted and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Now let's vote on the amendment second. And the second amendment received unanimous support. We adopted it and it becomes an integral part of the strategy. Amendment 3, let's vote please. And this amendment got unanimous support, 106 MPs, became an integral part of the strategy. Please vote on Amendment 4. Amendment 4 also received unanimous support, 106 MPs, becoming an integral part of the strategy. Amendment number five, please vote. 107 votes for, the amendment has received the required majority, unanimously and becomes an integral part of the strategy. And last amendment number six, please vote. And this amendment has also received unanimous support, 107 votes for, becoming an integral part of the strategy. We are now moving to a vote on a strategy proposal, in line with the proposal of the parent parliamentary working body. I am putting forward a proposal for a strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that we unanimously adopted a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments adopted with 116 votes for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51444	So let's cut to the next point, which is: - Annual Financial Agency report for 2015; I emphasize '15. The applicant shall be FINA based on Article 21. The Financial Agency Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The esteemed head of the FINA Management Board, Drazen Covic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51445	Good afternoon, Honorable Chairman, respected MPs and MPs. Before you is the Annual Report of FINA for 2015, in accordance with the FINA Act, which FINA is required to deliver to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. This report is based on the government’s conclusion of 19 January this year, corrected in the section on the number of employees and the basis for payment, as well as the number of protected accounts opened. The same report was complemented by a lost dispute with the National Bank, led by FINA for many years. Before the evaluation of the facts related to the adverse event or the Cornology of the mentioned case with the CNB, we will set out some of the most significant business and financial results relating to the operations of the FINA in 2015. There are three segments, as you know the business of FINA. One segment of services for the financial industry, entrepreneurs and citizens, a segment that works for the State by virtue of a contractual relationship with the State and a segment of public services provided by FINA on the basis of its public powers laid down by law. The FINA segment providing business to the commercial industry, namely banks, citizens and entrepreneurs, for 2015 was set by the SEPA project. The project was part of the harmonisation that our financial regulation was required to establish for the establishment of a single euro area of operations relating to both consumers and business entities and local authorities so that they could receive payments in euro on equal terms, rights and obligations regardless of where it is located. The aim of the SEPA project is to establish a single payment system as a prerequisite for achieving the idea of a single internal market. So the SEPA area covers all EU countries plus other countries in Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland, Monaco and San Marino. With Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia has become obliged to adopt SEPA rules regarding euro transactions. And by decision of the National Committee on Payments, which was the managing body of SEPA project in the Republic of Croatia and FINA in 2003, she appointed working bodies in the national project, the Croatian Committee and the Croatian SEPA Forum, and in 2014 she joined the design of the project and fully implemented the project. In the business segment based on the contractual relations we had with the state, 2000 business in 2015 marked the completion of a major project. It's a centralized salary account for all state administration bodies. We can proudly say that 2100 institutions that receive salaries from the budget are located in this system, i.e. over 240 000 employees in this system receive salaries. And as the last institutes, which are, of course, large because of the number of employees they work in, they went inside. It is the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the need to adapt the wage system, which is, for example, entered our Constitutional Court and the Office of President of the Republic of Croatia. In our segment of public authority that we are working under the law in 2015, it marked the implementation of the PONIP system. So it's a sale of pawned movables and real estate. In 2015 we also completed one project on, it is pre-departure agreements, where the FINA changes and additions, the Executive Act has stopped being the body that conducts the procedure. We can point out that while we were working on the pre-fashion settlement procedures in front of the councils that were in FINA and our technological support, we received slightly less than 9,000 transfers to a pre-demand settlement, with total claims reported by 82 billion kuna, over 66,000 employees who worked in these companies. We note that a total of 2,500 successful pre-banking agreements have been completed and that their operational and financial restructuring plans have been included, i.e. adopted before the competent commercial courts. We're still finishing this procedure, somewhere around 7% of the cases are being processed due to the appeal proceedings of some administrative proceedings and courts. In 2015, we also worked on a system of performance and implementation over money. During that year, we received a million and 180000 different executive cases, of which 960,000 were for citizens and 214000 for legal persons. And a total of 7.5 billion persons, related to legal persons and 32 relating to business entities, were executed in the same period. As regards FINA's business, the financial year 2015, FINA concluded with a loss due to the lost HNB dispute of 148 million kuna, which of course affected our score and FINA showed a loss of 82 million kuna in 2015. Business characteristics in 2015, so in our income structure, we can say that the products that we offer in the financial industry, entrepreneurs and citizens were 4.6 million higher than the planned sizes, to the jobs that we did based on public authority and for the state were 32.4 kunas less than planned. In the cost structure, since we are working intensively, of course the largest cost of staff that makes up almost 50% of total costs and makes up about 360 million kuna are costs, staff in our total incomes. They're at a level planned, or 1% smaller than that. During 2015, we realised 58 million kuna investments, which is 38% planned. It is precisely planned amounts and investments are not realised precisely because of the loss of the dispute and the negative financial result. On 31.12. FINA accounted for 3150 workers, 77 workers were employed during the year, 66% of the workers left, i.e., stopped their employment relationship and FINA continued to operate as it continued, so with 4 regional centres, 18 branches, 143 businesses, 21 outposts and 3 separate counters. So we're working on the entire Republic of Croatia, or we're supporting national coverage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51446	I thank the head of FINA's administration, Mr Drazen Covic, for this explanation. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51447	Thank you very much. My colleague, please, can you explain this dispute a little bit more to us with the CNB lost by FIN. This is about a significant amount, to see what kind of correlation there is, so the CNB which is the institution of the Republic of Croatia and the FINA which is a company of 100% ownership. So we're just a little bit more interested in this case, so you can tell us exactly what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51448	Thank you. The esteemed head of the FINA administration, Mr. Drazen Covic, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51449	I appreciate the question. The dispute between the CNB and then the ZAP, so the legal predecessor of FINA, lasts since '97. years, and it's the result of events that occurred with the incursion of payment traffic. So, when the Department of Payments carried out as a state office, therefore, payment traffic on legal persons in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The dispute has been going on for many years, the dispute has already been of great value in its very beginning, so it was nominally 40 and something million kuna, you have a precise report in the lip, and the rest of almost 100 million are made in this interest dispute due to the course of time or trial that happens. The procedure was conducted secondaryly, so in the first and second degree FINA lost that dispute and we had no other legal remedy, and we also invested an audit on the whole process. We believe that the procedure is obsolete, it is our argument for review and we were the basis of the loss and the powerful judgment due to the amount of the sum of the EUR 148 million in which almost 100 million interest is made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51450	I thank you for your response to Mr. Covic. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51451	Thank you very much. Mr. Covic, I would like this, two practical questions. We were witnessing the implementation that was carried out with false documents over certain companies, it was currently very much during 2016 and early 2017, this Implementing Law is a specific question of whether it was now arranged, so that you can then act not to come up, because it was announced for 2 months that these funds were deposited because it created a number of problems for companies, we see even the football player was one of our accomplished and it was an actual question. What's other, in fact, I met with one emergency in the system that you have, so elected political officials have the means to get political action, they get at the expense of 35, it's open, but your office clerk wasn't familiar with that account by the changes that were made in July was specifically adopted that change, not subject to enforcement. What's a little bit about me, while we were solving that happened where they weren't aware that it was actually not the subject of possible enforcement anymore. So I just wanted you to comment on how this sequence of references might work, actually, these amendments and the addition of the laws that we're making here, and they're very important for the way we're doing it, because I'm saying it doesn't happen again to the situation that... complete, because then the refund of funds is extremely difficult and painful and there is practically limited possibilities. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here, so I'd like to ask your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51452	I thank Mr Panenic for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Covic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51453	Thank you. There are two questions for you. We have initiated an amendment and an addition to the Law on the implementation of the conduct on money precisely because we, we are the long-standing executioner because some of the experiences that you mentioned were the basis of false documents, false identity, false registrations in the court register. Therefore, the basis of various frauds has been carried out by confiscation of funds based on falsified or falsified documents. We have requested the amendment and the addition of the law and in that section relating to the implementation of the exercise at the moment, so when we get the document but on the account of the funds allocated, where the funds stand 60 days and then in those 60 days it is possible for the debtor if he considers that rights are violated, to invest an extraordinary legal remedy and the believer again knows that the money he received is on the account of the funds if he received them or on the basis of the correct documents or judgments he knows that he will receive them, we transfer them on the 60th day. In this way we prevented all these con men who were very important that we perform immediately, so in the existing line of law, FINA was obliged the same day, if by 12 hours she received the commission, so any instrument, whether it was a verdict, the debtors, or any instrument, to carry it out. Of course, they recognized it as their chance as a criminal mile crew, and they're there based on a fake like the cases mentioned, they managed to complete some. We responded immediately by amending the law, and now these funds are allocated to the amount of funds that stand 60 days, and if that happens, the damaged party has the right to request a temporary measure from the judge. With a temporary measure, we block the funds and there's no harm done, the court gives us a warrant, and we get that warrant back on the ground. As for the conduct of the accounts...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51454	Mr. Covic, thank you, your time is up, so continue in the second answer to cover that one. Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51455	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your statement, it is good that you answered Mr. Maras, it was one part of my question precisely because of the opinion of the government of the Republic of Croatia which said in its opinion that it has incomplete data regarding the dispute with the CNB. However, in your presentation, you said that there were about a million and 214 thousand citizens, or under the covers, one target group of these citizens are both pensioners and you know that they have protected accounts. One user group. I know those protocols were made by HZMO and Finna. So I'm interested, do you update your data on a daily basis or do you have any protocols that work weekly or monthly? That's what I'm saying for reasons of a protected retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51456	I thank Mr. Babic. The answer of my colleague, Covic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51457	Thank you. Protected accounts open permanently and until the party shuts them down, we treat them protected. We have an entire procedure for opening protected accounts, sign up for one of our offices, get a proper application, and then you get a protected account with your employer or in this case in HZMO that pays your pension and protects that part of your pension, the allocative part of which is covered by the protected account. We're opening a protected jury, sorry, current accounts, we're doing, so if today's request is generally filed tomorrow's protected account is open. In the meantime, if he sits down and doesn't have a user-protected account, the execution will take everything. So we update at night, a unique account holder register containing data on all accounts in the Republic of Croatia, so all of our accounts we have, it's one unique register that FINA is running, in that register is replicated by the base overnight and we update it overnight. So whoever's applying today is basically open to him tomorrow, one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51458	I thank Mr. Covic for his reply. Next to the replica, a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51459	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard in this report the dramatic news that the biggest executioner in the Republic of Croatia has been completed. I have to admit that at one point it almost moved me and I was very shaken that out of the million and 100 thousand executions that were carried out in 2015, one of the tasks had to be paid there and FINA. I don't know if at that point the FINA administration realized that maybe you should open yourself a secure account so she'd never again have all the funds taken from their accounts and ended up losing 84 million kuna. However, the question that I am particularly interested in is that FINA is a state-owned company how all those years when the government regulations were in force so that Christmases in state-owned companies were not paid to themselves, to its employees, and to the Christmas card. And how it is possible that in 2015 in the year in which FINA operates with a loss of 84 million kuna as we heard these same Christmases were paid again. So I'd like to hear this rational explanation that while these same rights are denied I don't know about 250 thousand civil servants in FINA, there's a Christmas card that can be paid even when dealing with a loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51460	I thank Mr. Bunjec for the replica. And Mr. Covic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51461	FINA lost the court dispute as did any other legal person who lost the court dispute. We are not fulfilled, we have paid the determined amount that we have lost by a court ruling on the basis of a judicial verdict. As for our loss, the loss is covered by FINA's capital reserves and we've recovered that loss based on profits from previous periods. As far as Christmas payoffs are concerned, FINA has a collective contract and the basis of our collective contract is my predecessor, so the administration before I do has paid what the collective contract had to do or the workers would press charges and get their rights in the lawsuit. We fulfilled what was our obligation under the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51462	I thank Mr. Covic for his reply. Would the rapporteur's representative like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51463	I would like to thank the president, welcome my colleagues and colleagues, as well as Mr. Covic's proposal. This was one of the first tasks that I received when I entered the Assembly is the responsibility for the debate in front of the HDZ Club for the 2015 FINA report. It was adopted in 10th month 2016 in FINA. We adopted him on the Finance Committee about a month later. When I was preparing the debate, I prepared it in writing at the beginning of my term. Of course, I have prepared myself so that I am pleased that we are still discussing this report more in time, since I noticed that those earlier ones were also discussed with some distance of a year. Unfortunately for some of our dynamics in the Parliament, this came a little later. However, at the beginning of this debate, I would like to say that the HDZ Club will accept this report, it will look back at the data but also those things that should be improved in the future so that not only the work of the FINA would be better than the public and the Croatian Parliament would be better informed about the activities of the FINA. What we could hear and what is the most important information should be highlighted is that in 2015, revenues of more than 769 million kuna were achieved and expenditures amounted to 870 million kuna. The revenue is slightly smaller, the expenditure is slightly higher and of course we heard and later I will comment on the expenditure, which is why they are even more significant. What we see from the 2015 report is that from the system of centralised salary accounts, the CAP was paid for more than 2100 institutions, which means paying salaries for more than 240 thousand employees. In 2015, the Ministry of the Interior also enters the COP system, which has done business related to greater adjustment for individual portfolios or institutions. The first salary is also started to be paid for the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court, and the system has also been awarded a certificate for the Information Security Management System in accordance with the Standard and with 27001 2103. That's what's important to emphasize. We also know that the state is also one of the biggest users of services, and this is seen according to this data, so the state is one of the biggest users of FINA services but also the state is also the biggest debtor to the same. That's how it was in 2015. I hope that the new 2016 report will fundamentally change. What is more important to say, as regards pre-fashion settlements in 2015, 8959 items have been prepared in which some 82 billion kunas have been declared and covered by pre-fashion deals of 60820 workers, in companies that entered the pre-departure settlements process. By the end of 2015, 93% of all items received and 7% were still in work. I believe that now these objects are all processed and I think since I don't see anything here about the species and type of believer, maybe we don't need to have, some detailed data, but we should still have more detail than in this report, maybe at the end of 2015. It would be good if these processes were to end, if we had some more complete data, so that we could also focus on future work and how to treat it. What was of interest was this dispute with the CNB that created a total cost of 148 million kuna for FINA and it was 2 institutions and this dispute is being conducted as we learned on the Committee on Finance, I think that fellow Maras, too, requested data, we also received detailed information on the Committee on Finance. But what's bad is I've been going through the old FINA reports and there's no mention of that dispute or I haven't seen them. The president can correct me, but we did not, or the Croatian Parliament, receive details of the dispute in previous reports, until the worst happened, until it was decided that FINA should, there is a loss of 148 million kuna. FINA is certainly an important agency, their significance of history, we can always talk extensively. And it's important that its efficiency improves as much as possible. The agency itself, under this name, has been working since January 2002, but we know that there is a half-century tradition and it is very commendable that we also have data on the saving of paper, environmentals, the disposal of dangerous material. However, they account for 4.5% of this report. When we split it into pages, I'd be more genuinely interested in talking a little bit about other rationalizations, such as rationalization of business spaces. Here, I'm a witness from the middle where I come in, half the space is not used, in the town of Makarska, so FINA doesn't use all its space at all, so I think that part of the same rationalization, savings, should find a place in the report, and I believe they'll find it. Because, as we can tell, the president of the proposer was not a responsible person during 2015. What I have done briefly, during the time I received this debate, I have had a little talk with the legal persons I work with, what their opinion of FINA is because of the very important opinion of the public on these institutions. So they're here specifically, so they've given a few of the opinions that I've singled out. They mentioned... We have some kind of three-way situation, so they said, when you're blocked, you can't see who's blocking you, but it's kind of solved via a card, over the Internet, you can find out everything because we saw a lot of investment in information in 2015, so we see that citizens see these changes as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A second opinion... with FINA only according to the obligations the state makes, so we have to study inside, otherwise we do everything with business banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I got a feeling that Finna's some... And you have to admire him, and you rarely go in there, and I was the last person to start company where they are, because they were in charge of establishment, which is absurd to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have an opinion, for the work of the FINA I have all the praises of kindness, speed in all segments, of the employees we deal with. I've finally isolated these opinions, and I think it's very important that our citizens think about this. They do not read a detailed report, rare and difficult to interpret these reports, and I think it would be good to go in that direction, that these reports be made available to them as much as possible. Let's make improvements, and of course, and these statistics that we've got on both pre-bank settlements and this dispute with the CNB to get a little bit more details anyway. But everything in all means the report was made, according to the rules and procedures required of FINA. The HDZ Club will back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51464	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic, for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51465	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues. Every age has its symbols of the oppression of the people, usually called the dungeon of the people. And in this modern age, this role has been taken over by an institution that we are discussing today, called FINA. She was a dungeon of the people, in France, called Bastille at the time of the former Yugoslavia was a naked island. Today we have a FINA with one important difference, which is that several hundred people were closed in Bastille, on a naked island of a few thousand people, and on the FINI one quarter of a state. Because one million Croatian citizens can't live normally, because of the FINA's performance and I'd like to talk about it today. You're gonna say, I know some people come out for replicas, and they're not people in prison, but in prison people you know have paid directors, they have something to eat, they're sure nobody's gonna throw them out on the street, and these people who have these errands, they don't have a quiet dream and they don't know what they're gonna eat tomorrow, and they don't know where they're gonna sleep tomorrow. We heard fascinating information about FINA's business that only spent a million executions on citizens in 2015. Watch out for a million executions where we live. I'm listening to a colleague from HDZ who's thrilled to talk about this report, I don't know, I feel like some people have fallen from Mars here. A million of these. 10 million executions under the Executive, criminal law passed by HDZ at the time of Minister Bosnjakovic, who is once again the minister of justice. There's a great traffic FINA I congratulate you, here's a wider business we read in a report 143 businesses, 21 outposts, 3 separate counters, a growing number of employees, jobs there is that, 3150 people are employed, 360 million kuna we paid them salaries. 2013 during the worst crisis average salary of 5600 kuna, 2014. 5800, 2015 6100 kuna, all rights go Christmas Eve, 2015 we have a loss of 84 million, Christmas Eve goes. No problem. He takes away the HNB 146 million, he takes 184 along with the costs of the procedure, doesn't matter. He deports it without a problem, she won't be thrown out of her building like these lowlifes who owe them several thousand kunas and take away their only real estate. Yes, Mr. Covic, it's a bitter irony that you've been executed by the CNB. It is said that you sow it, yes, but you survived there. Unlike 330,000 Croatian citizens who are in long-term blockades who cannot unblock their account and whose debt is growing exponentially from year to year, from month to month. When family members are added to these blocked citizens and companies, and 30,000 people are working, more than 30,000 are in blocked companies, crafts and OPGs are about a million people. This is due to the implementation of FINA's tasks with the blessing of the HDZ and in part of the SDP. This shows, among other things, that all these alleged reforms, here we now have a clear picture of HDZ and government reforms, we will forgive the debt, we will implement tax reform, we will conduct personal bankruptcy. So how does that debt keep growing? Why isn't the number of those blocked, completed? Why don't you reduce the number of executions, but they go up? Take the latest statistics for 2017, which is what you're talking about. Where are those reforms? Here's a chance for you now we hear the report is wonderful, it needs to be accepted, what else are we going to buy the champagne management of FINA for terror? FINA and public notebooks are completely unnecessary in the executive procedure, they're paralysing it. Such institutions as FINA do not have any European countries. You're talking about some famous history, so say it's a former SDK, so admire the character and the work of Joseph Broz Tito or Edward Cardell whose names you want to change the square immediately. 'Cause what happens in carrying out those errands? Once upon a time, executions were carried out by courts and all court fees went to the state budget, it was billions of kunas. Today, the same billions of fees that are determined to remember going into private pockets, the FINAs, their administrations, public notebooks, damages the budget. Then we have a situation that Europe does not recognise our executive solutions, does not recognize them, you probably heard something about it, and that people, except that they cannot provide some of the most elemental existence, openly suspect that there is an executive mafia in Croatia, so the staff of institutions and private persons for the robbery of the people. Just look at how public notebooks go around public companies like a cat around hot porridge because it's the biggest business they can get to carry out. On his knees he kneels before I don't know about gas, electricity and waste disposal to get that job. There's no morals or mercy, it's a business that, as we see from this report, blooms ruthlessly in our homeland. Among other things FIN not only participates in the implementation of the executive law, the blockade of Croatian citizens, watch out for me we repeat another 330 thousand blocked, millions of people who are directly affected, Croatia is sick, sick, really sick. And what is offered for the cure? Forgiveness of debt for a few hundred people, personal bankruptcy for a few hundred people. These are the solutions offered by HDZ and their government. In addition, FINA itself conducts various illogicalities, illegalities, absurd actions. You have cases here, for example, quite concretely, that a citizen will receive a non-existent assignment, if by chance a false commission comes to his account, FINA will charge him the costs as if the right execution had come. See what FINA charges and what fees it has on citizens who are already in poverty itself. It charges them 40 kuna for printing one piece of paper, if it's business entities and 15 kunas for natural persons, giving data on the amount of the blockade 43 kuna, disposing of the funds 175 kuna but every time again. So let's imagine that a person is responsible for 500 kunas and that every month FINA manages to charge 40 kunas, it will charge each of those 40 kunas 175 and so for the whole year. And on one kuna a debt will be charged 5 kuna fees or even 20 kuna fees and expenses. So can you imagine, 20 kunas per kuna? A man who has no extra insurance on 67 kuna, and in the end, he'll pay 1,500 of which to the lenders and intermediaries. At the same time, the Croatian National Bank, which is ready to complete the FINA facility's debt sale to the vulture's human funds by 20% of the principal. 20% of the principals are sold citizens' debts, and at the same time when charged, they are charged 100% of the principals increased by 10 times the costs, interest and everything else. Here's Mr. Covic from FINA if you really think this paper costs 40 kuna, and otherwise there's this at the Faculty of Economics 10 lipa is printed of one piece of paper. Here, please hire me at the FINA and I'll hand over these papers. Here I think one day I'm going to rewrite one 20, 30 papers, and I'm going to make 1200 kunas. If that's how it's printed so expensive. I'll prescribe for you 30 kunas and you'll write for 40 kunas. What's the point of having a state-owned company like FINA founded a daughter's company? What are these fine cash loans for? As it can mean, one company is a state-owned undertaking operating on market principles, in which the administration has one-off revenues. How much does the management's income mean to these fine cash loans I'd like to hear? Are personal data of the citizens protected on these FINA cash loans? Does this company have a privileged position on the capital market? Furthermore, how is it possible for FINA to take people's money off twice for the same debt? How is it possible for the claiming agencies to charge the same debt paid by FINA? How is it possible for FINA to charge the same amount to the debtor, the judge and the bailiffs? So if the debtor is in debt 100 kuna, FINA will block his account for 100 kuna, a judge for 100 kuna and two guarantees for 100 kuna. So the debt for 100 kuna will be a block of 400 kuna. I'm talking about very small amounts just to better understand mathematics. Why does it take FINA weeks and months to take people off the blockade after they paid their debts? So when it's time to charge the bill, then the man without warning is blocked by all the bills in the Republic of Croatia within five minutes. But when he pays his debts and you need to unblock the bill, then you can wait three months for those bills to unblock. So what measures are being taken by FIN to ensure that this deblockation is implemented neatly? What do we have next? We have cases, now here's to you for all citizens. You, if you have 10,000 euros, more than 10,000 euros, and you're thinking of paying something off, you're obliged to report it to me. I don't know who all of us are. For example, if you go abroad, and when you come to FINA, then you can bring a invoice, a fake invoice on 25 million kunas and take 25 million kunas and go to no one. Is this then a report from MP Rostice that we can accept? And you know what happens then? Then when they steal 25 million kunas from you with a fake invoice, then you can sue to get it back. And you know how long the lawsuit will take? A hundred years in the Croatian judiciary. Then you can sue that, you can't get your money back. Then... Not once. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's often done that kind of theft. So how is it possible in some state-owned facility to steal tens of millions of kunas on a counter with fake invoices? I will tell you the rest since I am running out of time in an individual debate, but here I can now conclude that Live Wall this report cannot and will not accept that because of the harmful role of FINA as such in the implementation process and because of irregularities in the 2015 report. In addition, I would like to tell the Croatian citizens that Live Wall is the only party that advocates the immediate suspension of the implementation of the mandates and blockades, i.e. to introduce moratories to their implementation until a new and full Executive Law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51466	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51467	Do you know your esteemed colleague, Bunjac, where problem number one? Well problem number one is that in Croatia this problem of mass execution was not at all until the job was outsourced with public notebooks. So as long as the courts were doing this, things were under control. All of a sudden, there's a precedent. There is something that is not possible in the rest of the EU. So you're skipping the power of fate. All of a sudden, public notebooks are starting to do this, and all of a sudden these performances are becoming a lucrative business, and there are all kinds of moral freaks in this business among them, a prominent Mason Marijan Hanžekovic, who are gnawing millions over the spine of the poor, and of course you are trying here, gentlemen of HDZ, to point out that there is a problem. That it is not normal for public notebooks to carry out performances and that this system of execution has led people into a position that is not normal. So if you have 50,000 blocked, people are guilty of themselves, but if you have 350,000 blocked, then it's obvious that there's no more guilt here is not on the individual, that it's a freak system and that under the urgent payment of debts, or forced payment should be taken to the public notebooks and returned to the hands of the courts. Why the HDZ government doesn't want to do this, why the SDP government didn't do it, why MOST didn't do anything about it while he was in power for two years, why the HNS doesn't talk about it either IDS or other parties, I don't know. But I am pleased, Mr. Bunjac, that there are finally people in the Croatian Parliament who represent the Croatian people and who will advocate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51468	I thank Mr. Pernar. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51469	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, so you've pointed to the bottom of the fact that it's true. Before the introduction of the Executive Act, 30 thousand people in Croatia were blocked and charged with debt so that after the introduction of the Executive Law, 330 thousand citizens, 10 times more in a year came under the supervision and blockades plus 30,000 companies, crafts and OPGs. And we see that there's been an incredible expansion of that system where they're charged, here's what we've heard from this report, seven and a half billion kunas in just one year, and out of those seven and a half billion kunas, five, six goes on some fees. Where do these fees end? Where are they, in Mauritius, in Virgin Islands? Where's that going? For what? Who allows it? How is it possible that you, just those who spend those errands, are buying newspapers? They buy all the media. You, whatever newspaper you open in the Republic of Croatia today, owns an executive. That's the rod you're talking about. Whoever allowed them, let them have one of those political interests, so on the front page of the paper, they're going to give her reports, great, and the Wall of Life is going to be pounding while the citizens are suffering more and more every day. You don't know what it's like to be finished and what it's like not to have something to give the kids to eat tomorrow. If you don't know, and you should know, I'll take you and see what it's like. Well, to see the tears of those mothers and those fathers, then you'll be a little less like your own successful business, because that's the money you made, sir, blood money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51470	I thank Mr. Bunjec for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51471	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, in your discussion you mentioned the problem of people who were completed in the Republic of Croatia, I would remind you of an announcement of pompous that offered hope to people and it read about like this. We come to power with a solution. You need to release that energy and hire those people. In 2015, 330 thousand completed with a lady from Rijeka who still put wind in the back of HDZ, with them also on the list, in the 8th constituency, know the MPs sitting here, and now two years after what happened? Is there anything different? Is there any change? Unfortunately, people are still in trouble and this sentence essentially shows how dangerous it is to give hope and not to do anything. Minimal amendments to the Executive Act were made now in the 7th month, which also had been denied by President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and said that this was not nothing, that a comprehensive amendment to the Executive Act should be made. So the one who supported such a policy gave it up. 330 thousand people are still in trouble, as you yourself have said, out of 40 billion kuna debt in the Republic of Croatia, 8 billion kuna is real debt, 32 billion are interest costs, legal, implementation, execution, etc., meaning that the problem is unfortunately too little to talk about and too little is changing in Croatia and once again I will say, God no longer gives to anyone in the future that like HDZ, this gives false hope to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51472	I thank Mr. Maras for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51473	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, I have repeatedly called upon the Parliament to warn of inconsistencies in the implementation of the Programme Reliable, which everything there writes, so that your mind may stand. Among other things, it says that HDZ will ban actions, that they won't throw people on the street anymore, and every day from the Living Wall, but literally every day, we attend throwing people on the street with one bag, they can't get it, it's like that for the sake of World War II, you have 30 minutes to prepare the most necessary, to get out on the road in front of the house. That's what it says there, yeah. That's what they'll do. And we who try to point to this problem, then the courts, with the support of Minister Bošnjakovic, send the execution of 2.2 million kuna to the members of the Living Wall. Instead of preventing terror, they are still strengthening because they think that they will solve the problems. Violence. That it will stop poverty in Croatia. You're right to mention the executive law, I haven't been able to mention it. Here's how many people are unblocked, how much of the execution is less, how much of the mirage is smaller. So there's nothing. But I'm sure in the 2016 FINA reports, we'll see again that the salaries were growing, that all the rights went, that the offices were opening, that the administrations were buying bonuses. Who makes it possible and why and until when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51474	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51475	Comrade Bunjac, I'm going to replicate not in that section relating to the FINA report, but in the part where you were talking about the FINA report. You mentioned and I'm curious when you were talking about the political context, we know that politics is regulated on the inside of the world or within the state level of public affairs. And that takes care of what happens on an individual, institutional and organisational level. You brought FINA to the level of an organised, anti-democratic entity, which produces individual tragedies of the population. And that individual tragedy, more and more in your exposure takes and the historical face of injustice. I wonder if you can explain why you and how you connected FINA to an institution that directly strikes democracy, because you said even Croatian residents marginalise and thus excludes all democratic political public affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51476	I would like to thank my colleague, Vučetić, for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51477	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vučetic. Well, I used official statistics. So if you have 330,000 blocked and an assumption that they're adults, who have a family. If you have 30,000 business entities, so if more than 30,000 people work in blocked companies, then they can't exercise their rights in time, you get to that number of millions of people. By the way, those calculations were made by experts, and I think they've sent multiple addresses to various addresses among other things and the presidents of the Republic. I would like to mention here now that when I apostrophe to FINA that in Slovenia, Austria does not have an enforcement through intermediaries. There's an electronic conduct, there's a payment of debts through the court, and the intermediaries don't exist. I even talked to a man who was a banker in Serbia recently and when I asked him how to conduct the executions and blockades in Serbia, he couldn't explain it to me for 15 minutes, because he didn't understand what I was asking him. He didn't understand what I was asking him. Well, that's not there. We're the only ones with a case like that. How much citizens owe, therefore, are abnormal figures, that's tens of billions of kuna, wants to be charged by people who, I don't know, don't have 50 kunas to go buy fruit and vegetables. Or, I don't know, pay for the extra insurance. It's time to end it. I don't mind FINA employees, and I think those FINA employees on the counter are generally doing their job, but there's obviously an interesting group working against the citizens. And I know very well, among other things, that the FINA employees themselves are sick of what they have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51478	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, change Croatia, respected colleague Ivan Lovrinović. He's gone. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, colleagues from FINA. This is when we talk about the FINA report, it is important to mention that even though it is a 2015 report, some indicators are visible inside, and what is important is the structure of how the organization, that is, how the company does how many employees it is directed towards and how it works. And on this basis, certain conclusions can already be reached, that this will work in the future, i.e. what the FINA should represent in the future, after it has passed since the 1990s. So far, the road from a monopolies, which was used to pay, that is, that used to be called SDK, the social accounting service, until today, when virtually everyone on the market is doing it, when it's very liberalised. But FINA still keeps certain things to herself. What I'm trying to say first is that the very high share of FINA's revenues is related to the state. For example, through the account of salaries, i.e. direct transactions carried out for the state, whether, for example, these transactions carried out in accordance with certain laws and rules and regulations that were spoken of earlier and by a colleague of Bunjac, and these are really large revenues, which today, tomorrow, may not be present here, or, for example, pre-departure settlements that were in their full function in the 13th and 14th, respectively, '15. Maybe, but that's probably going to fall off slowly as far as income and work is concerned. FINA should also start to think about where to find it and in which areas it can make certain revenues and do which services it does not now. And when we see the revenues that are related to the state almost 50% and slightly more, the financial electronic service, a lot of this applies, as counterpart Bunjac said, and over a million of the tasks that are made over one year. And when we see these information and communication services that FINA may have entered, but shyly and amounting to a very small amount or other incomes that amount to something more, it says that FINA is still, not yet, but heavily based on the state. And on the other hand, if there were no such market, it would be difficult for FINA to survive in this form and it should certainly be seen as a challenge for the next period because it is possible that it will not remain in that range in the coming years. For example, the issue of leadership is raised, meaning the COP contract it has with a country that was an initial idea to place everything in one place and to control from one place how and how much pay is paid, to bring it to a more transparent level with certain rationalisations. This will give someone I would say the results and have already given some results because it is also seen in the way in which the wages are managed in the public sector. But surely this will eventually lead to issues and cost-effectiveness and whether it can be done cheaper and how and how it can be done in the future, so that this income now amounts to several hundred million kunas in principle does not have to remain that way in the future. It's the same thing to do if it's simplified, if more citizens are protected. Surely there won't even be this number of executions that we have at this point in action which I would say inadmissible for small amounts to be costing so much. But that's what we're talking about all the time. So there's something concrete to do here, because in trouble, people who amount to 8 to 9 billion kunas, that means what citizens couldn't pay to make 32 billion kunas of interest here, costs and other things that simply society can't tolerate, and that must change in the future, and of course it necessarily means certain changes and business-related to the FINA. What's interesting is that this information here and the president of the administration said that the CNB had made or spent the payment of the forced payment of FINA for 140 million kuna per court dispute of '87. And then a man asks himself a question about how it ever happened, why it hasn't been solved before. The state owns one, the state owns the other, and at the end of 40 million kunas of debt turned out to be over 100 million or 100 million kuna of interest at the end of what now FINA will pay again. There is another position of the CNB as a state in the country that de facto exists and no one can do anything but every six years when we change, or choose or confirm the governor in this House. So from this report, although what I would say is quite not extensively, but in principle there is difficulty without certain analyses to determine what will happen to FINA in the future and draw some conclusions. However, there are a lot of things worth imagining and thinking about, and ultimately, to reach certain conclusions, but also questions here which we can specifically ask the management or director in which direction the FINA is going, or what they see as management for the future period, given these challenges that I have mentioned. And I said, surely there will be no amount of this, or very likely revenue from the state, and very probably from the citizens, and they simply have to find the next year's space, or transform, reform, to seek new spaces. Because 3150 workers are probably here at that same level today. It is not easy to have a job, if business is changing, or if work is not as it was in the past. So I would be interested, i.e. SDP Representatives' Club, perhaps in the final speech that the Director of FINA says in what sense they are developing FINA and which services are particularly interesting in the future in view of these challenges ahead of them. And once again we're going to say here in FINA we're seeing our society's problems as well. As my colleague Bunjac said, the problem is blocked. And once again, I'm going to say it here in front of all of you, it would be good never to repeat it so easily as to offer a solution just to raise the voice more and to manipulate it as HDZ did with the Association of Blocked. This association gets into a chain circuit, and at the end of two years after that, nothing gets rid of it. Nobody even mentions that lady anymore, she's nowhere to be found, and people are still in trouble and there's been a solution overnight. The president of the HDZ then and Prime Minister Karamarko's candidate urged the release of energy. Unfortunately, energy has not been released, and if it is freed it is not in Croatia but in Ireland, Germany and other countries where people have fled to find a better future that the HDZ and this government cannot provide. And on that side, a little more responsibility in announcements in wishes, proposals and a little more reality wouldn't be lacking, and that's my proposal for future activities related especially to people who are in these problems, who are in daily grips for life, or that they don't know what's going to happen to them tomorrow. They need to be particularly, I would say, sensitive and cautiously talk and talk because making easy promises that don't come true then doesn't make any sense, then people lose trust in the country, lose trust in the institutions of the state, because when people like that don't understand, that sometimes people, here, especially in that campaign HDZ has made a pretty easy promise, that they're prone to promise, and in fact they don't have any solution, but it has to be for people to say, especially those in such a difficult situation, they can't be approached in this way. Here, it's a warm recommendation for HDZ colleagues not to do it anymore, because a million of our fellow citizens who have someone who's done in their family simply don't deserve it, and even though it's worth getting any more votes in the election, that's not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51480	I thank my colleague Maras for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51481	Dear colleague Maras, with all due respect to you, whom I truly appreciate, I cannot simply go over the fact that it is 2011. HDZ with Jadranka Kosor amended the Executive Act. And that these amendments to the executive law have led to an explosion of execution. Unfortunately, the SDP for four years in power, four years it hasn't moved to stop it. So there continued to be a model in which large amounts were charged for small debts. It was still during the SDP period that public notebooks were the ones who carried out the tasks instead of courts, etc., etc. And to ask her, ask yourself, Mr. Maras, is it perhaps precisely because of this social policy, which has turned its back on the poor, the SDP has essentially lost the election? You, too, should be a party that protects the poor. Unfortunately, how did you protect the blocked? The executions continued, faster and faster, blocked more and more, their debt grew bigger and bigger, etc. And unfortunately, it's a shame, I wish the Living Wall wasn't the only party talking about it. Which calls for this issue to be resolved. But unfortunately, it turns out that while the Living Wall will not have a majority in this House, that this problem will not be solved and that people will still be massacred from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51482	I thank my colleague Pernar for his replica. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51483	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, you said when the law came into force and when the problem had escalated. So it's the 2011 crisis. Jadranka Kosor, HDZ. It's a good diagnosis. But it's incorrect in this part that we didn't do anything. We may not have done enough, but we did something, and I remember a few changes that went to cut the fees, but they could have been even more pronounced and a man looking backwards, that probably, not likely, but certainly we should have been more agile and looking for better solutions than they were in force. Unfortunately, we can't go back in time. But we can't even accept the current situation, where here's two years, since we don't have a chance to change it, nothing's changed either. Or, cosmetics and the President of the Republic, I agree with Madam President about almost nothing. But I agree on this that the Executive Law is not good and it warns its HDZ colleagues that they need to change that and that it is changing. Unfortunately, her warnings do not have any operational importance, but apparently only go to this daily phenomenon, that people hear that she's saying something, but unfortunately, she's not able to communicate with HDZ. So I can accept that some of the solutions we offered could have been better, but I can't accept that we didn't do anything because we did. So the difference between what we had in 2011 and what we were changing is heaven and earth, but it's not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51484	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. We have another replica. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51485	Dear counterpart Maras, that it is terrible that you also mentioned a colleague of Bunjac, however blocked, unfortunately it is over 330,000, but we must say that up to 10,000 are blocked by over 120,000 citizens. If you look at that total mass, you have 30,000 legal persons, and you have 60% of them legal persons who don't have a single employee, so almost 20,000, then that's the problem, that you and such legal persons owe over 360 days, over a year, and that they don't have any employees, and surely they and such legal persons have produced that they are due, for example. physical craftsmen, who have a score of 10,000 and whose workers are probably blocked in that mass. What am I saying? It's terrible, the figures are terrible, we've been entering the debt structure, most of them making interest, but we should also say that it's not just the new Executive Act that led to this situation, but the FINA has united all the tasks that were in drawers and banks, and then that amount and that number is so big. He was big before, but here is now a united data that must surely be solved and that is not negligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51486	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. My colleague Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51487	Thank you very much. My colleague Perić, from your replica, it was clear that you are essentially saying that this problem is not what it seems if I understand it well. I'm honestly not that impression. I think the problem is even more dramatic than it seems because you can't technically see or understand what these 300,000 people are experiencing and their families. Imagine that amount I would say, the difficult situations of misery that these people are going through. You know, try to imagine that. Then combinations like this, if these companies are already employed,... are irrelevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 300 grand plus family, million. So try to sum them up to 300 grand, how long will it take, how long will it take? Every hour means 3,600, so you have to add up Mrs. Peric, 30 hours. One, two, three, four, five, 30 hours in a row so you can get to 300 grand. And when you see how hard it is to count 300 grand, then you can only figure out how much of the problem it is and how much we have basically a obligation to have everyone here together do everything to get these people out of these problems. Don't like this, it looks like you're trying to say it's not like that, it's better. It's not better, it's just supposed to go now and count 30 hours. And you will add up to 300 grand. 30 hours each, one second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51488	I thank my colleague Maras for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Kreso Beljak. He's gone, thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear Mr. Covic, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's me back on the subject, and that's the 2015 FINA Annual Report. We were saying something about the report, but most of the things we talked about were what they were actually doing to implement the laws passed by this Assembly and what jobs they were actually ordered to do. So, if we want to discuss the Executive Act, that is to say, the tasks they carry out, we have to discuss it, but on the other hand, and not under the subject of the 2015 Financial Report, which was really specific for FINA. We've already heard what it was specific to, it was specific to that end of the 148 million kuna CNB, which is 51 million capital, which is due to the time of '95. And '96. when these business relationships, or disputes, have actually arisen, interest rates have led to that amount. So it turns out that total revenues were 769 million kunas or 870 expenditures, or that was cca 100 million losses, net loss amounts to 2 million kunas. We actually got a lot of data through that report that they were and each year presented to us, but this was a specific situation and because of it it came about. We heard it was covered from the reserve and that Finna is still doing business normally, so let's call it that. However, what has already been the debate that FINA is no longer a monopolies such as SDK and that it is making its revenues from several segments. Unfortunately, it's still 50% state-related. It would be far better if it were about entrepreneurship, citizens and in that part that we then had some vision of further developed, further business of FINA. It is good that the increase in the segment by 4 million and 600,000 was greater than in 2014. However, there is a need to really start taking care not only of the rationalisation of costs but also of how additional revenues are made. It is certain that opportunities for cost reduction exist in the FINA as well as in any other business entity. We've heard there's room. Surely there are other ways, and that direction should simply be done by that vision of the development of FINA. And what's in the report, that's a fact. And the data are that the project has been completed before bankruptcy deals, all of which has been done, however, and the performance of the FINA, the 300 thousand citizens we have completed, the HNS is certainly not happy about it. I don't believe there's anyone happy that we have 300 thousand accomplished citizens. But is it Finn's fault? FINA is carrying out what she's authorized to do. And when we talk about fees, I think that the incorrect amounts were carried out because I looked at some myself and that they were reduced even at first weren't as high as they were worn out. This 2015 report will support HNS because I believe that with 3150 workers with a network of businesses and with one good vision of development FINA there is a possibility, but there is much more to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51490	I thank my colleague, Macar. We have a few replicas. The first replica is a esteemed colleague of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51491	Thank you very much. Ten minutes or what? No, no. This was wrong. Thank you, colleague Macar. You said in your debate that it is clear that FINA cannot be responsible for the performance, but the fact is that it also participates partly in these performances, i.e. the cost and revenues generated by FINA are manifested through the costs of the performance of our citizens and on that side something and a colleague of Bunjac talked about it. It also needs to be sensitive and see if these costs can be reduced, or impossible for these millions of people, so that the cost of 100 kuna is 100 million. So on that side, it's not negligible money, and there's always a need to talk about that amount of work. And I think that should be pointed out, and that there is a need to see if FINA can make certain savings, i.e. a certain reduction, rationalising the cost of carrying out the tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51492	I thank my colleague Maras. My colleague Macar's answer, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51493	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras. Well, I think your replica was on exactly what I was discussing, and that's why thank you. I was saying that no one was satisfied with the number of people blocked and that we must all feel for each other. However, I also talked about rationalising costs, and that is the part I consider to be the part that has reduced the fees that surely these amounts can be even lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51494	I thank my colleague at least for the answer. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51495	Thank you very much, Reverend Macar. There you were lucky that you didn't feel the consequences of the executive law in your own skin, so you checked the amounts of compensation, so in the FINA itself. There you immediately reminded me in fact of the fact that these fees that I made during my debate were actually even more in 2015. These fees that I have now stated are less today than they were in 2015. For example, in 2015, a print paper cost 37 kuna as opposed to today when it's only supposed to be 15 kuna. These data are verifiable I think that even somewhere on the FINA there are even a little hidden, but there are these fees for the cost of the execution and there is, of course, accounting. We have accounting, say, in the Parliament, so if you want, we can ask them tomorrow when they come to see if these fees really were charged or not. I repeat once again 175 kunas for each store, dozens of kunas for one printed paper. Unfortunately, people have 16, 17, over 20 pages of their file to print. So now you can imagine when someone has to give 300 or 400 kuna for 20 papers, and it's already in a situation that I don't know 20 kunas to buy bread and milk. Well, isn't that absurd? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51496	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. My colleague Macar's answer, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51497	Thank you very much. Dear comrade Bunjac, I have not felt fortunately on my own skin, but I have not collected any data in FINA. I met with them in a pay account at a private company where I worked and where exactly I communicated with people and actually saw the amounts that were involved. That they were too high for me personally is true, but it's not about the amounts you're talking about in 2015 because I was working at the time. Maybe these people didn't ask for prints so they didn't have that kind of fee, but I know exactly how much there was and it was smaller. That they're even smaller now is true, but that they can be and they have to be even smaller and that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51498	I thank my esteemed colleague, at least for the answer. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51499	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here we hear this debate was so interesting and exhaustive. I'm sorry that the HDZ colleagues first applied for replicas and then gave up. It's their Prime Minister Plenkovic's tactics when Bunjac speaks escapes the assembly, but good. There were other colleagues to be discussed with, so we said a lot of things. I'd just like to look at a few more details, which is that, as I mentioned, Agent Maras said what citizens are going through. So there's still a whole series of legal entities that haunt citizens, along with FINA. So FINA's after you, sending you these daily printouts with these fees, with those fees. Then there's the claimant's office that terrorises you from morning to night. Watch out for the request agency to follow your habits. Can you imagine that? She's following my habits. She knows when I'm having lunch, when I'm having dinner, when I can be harassed by phone calls. They know it's best to call people at half seven in the morning or eight in the evening. And it's unsustainable. People can't sleep from it, I guarantee you. I sometimes know in the mornings when I wake up, look, I don't know what's on social networks, so I see people who haven't slept all night off of those errands and those claims agencies and all the financial concerns they have. These should therefore be the priorities that this country should address. And we see that for seven years now, this ultimate madness has been going on and there's no intention of stopping it. Here I remind you again of this program that's credible. HDZ will stop at one real estate, so please stop. Here, respect your own program. Is that so hard to say? And we used to say an honorable word, so is there any other honor in making an oral promise? Obviously, there is no such thing as a written explanation or a promise. I would also like to point out here that FINA is conducting the supervision of these fiscal registers and that people have often complained about sudden changes in the way it works in so-called ". fiscalization that FINA had asked them without notice for some new conditions, let's say new certificates, that people had to get these Windows, like, bigger computers, stronger, that it all got up to date, that it all started all over again. It's the same way, one form, as it's called terror di citizens who survive anything, I don't know, crying maids, must now suddenly follow the pages of FINA when there's going to be some kind of new instruction that's the worst of all, usually costs at least a thousand kunas, sometimes up to 10 thousand kunas, so let's do it already, give it a more thoughtful way, give people time to prepare, and then once something is introduced, don't change it every minute and especially not without notice. I repeat once again to the end, the Living Wall has nothing against FINA employees, they're doing their job very well, it's the system that, therefore, forced people to do the job. It is the administrations who see the opportunity to become rich at individual level. Those who co-operate with them but above all, the state that owns FINA and which, therefore, has made it possible to implement the performance and blockages in this way, and that this whole problem should be resolved in full, so through extensive legislation, and that this level of executive and blocked at least be restored to that level that was in 2011, and in fact to achieve one humane way of charging, the humane way of paying a different model for European countries and for this society to heal as a whole and for the economy to recover because we see that we were in a major recession and certainly this way of doing business was one of the reasons that all these consequences repeatedly strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51500	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51501	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, you cried out here to keep HDZ crediblely your promises, and you mentioned to protect citizens from the performance of a property as they announced in the election campaign, of course it will not happen. I hope you're not so naive, unfortunately. Just like it didn't happen to stop moving young people like they said they would, just like we didn't buy INA, from a year ago at a press conference Christmas premiere and in a big announcement nothing happened, and it didn't happen, so there's a lot of these things and my questions are essentially whether you were naive or ironic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51502	I thank my colleague Maras for the replica. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51503	Yes, Agent Maras, once your former president, Ivica Racan, was ridiculed to lead the policy of a determined... and it seems that this same statement can now be applied to the current prime minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because every time a real reform is to be implemented, he gives up. He's getting away. He can't face the problem. Here we had Family Law, two hours on the Internet they wrote two portals of criticism we immediately pulled the Family Law. We had our own ideology, the two associations gave a critical opinion, and it's being delayed right away. No more HDZ presidency sessions, almost, we don't need that, we have time. Real estate tax, these are the ones who've been crippling us on the social network, and we're not going to introduce it, that's not what we meant. The announcement of buying HEP, whatever else he remembers, was for last year's snow. And so we actually see that every time there's a critical moment, and that critical moment between the rest and the termination of the commission over one real estate, that's what the Trustable Program says. Interestingly, the Living Wall and HDZ have the same program. Imagine, then, a ban on the conduct of the only real estate which you have prescribed from us. And now you're not going to do it. Well, I really don't understand that. Please, this one, when we're already on paper, let's go and spend some time and we'll all be happy, then we can really have a friendly coffee and say that a new era is starting in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51504	Comrade Bunjac, thank you for your reply. Since we are tolerated in this House of Commons, you have presented us with the HDZ programme even though today is not the topic of this session. Thank you very much for this reminder. Let's move on, next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go. And please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51505	The Honorable Chairman. Well, I'll put it this way, at the Auschwitz camp the first commander of the camp, there was a man who was a mass murderer, but he had a style of black humor, and one camper described him in his book for three years in Auschwitz as the most human of all mass murderers. And why is that? Because he wasn't a fanatic for killing. It's simple that if he shot people or sent them to their deaths, he'd be saying an order is an order. However, his superiors were not satisfied with the speed of killing people, and they declared him incompetent and replaced him. And then a man came to his place who was a killing process, radically accelerated, dared to say and double. And now what's going on? It's an execution by its nature. And your praise for the FINA with its results, and the results of the 7.5 billion kuna billing in a year, a million executions carried out. Your boasting reminds me of the boasting of the people who managed Auschwitz who boasted how fast they actually turned people into dust there. In the same way, FINA does actually grind people, destroys their lives, many leads to the edges and over the edges of suicide, and ultimately, many are just under the burden of a great deal and have left our country. What other countries would be ashamed of is what we're proud of. We are proud that pensioners have the lowest standards in the EU, that we have the most emigrations of young people, that we have the largest growth in debt, that we have the growth of the number of blocked citizens, that we have, the growth of their debt, etc. And then in that statistic comes the FINA and says here's how successful we are we've spent a million errands. Dear ladies and gentlemen, your success, or what you consider a success, is actually a failure. The very fact that claims cannot be charged by natural means means, without the use of forced collection, shows you a deep deformity of the financial system, suggest that the claims cannot be settled, i.e. they have no place to settle. And the proof of that is this, despite the enormous charge, what's going on? The total debt is growing. So it's not like you can come here and tell us, gentlemen, it's a 14 billion-dollar debt, we've charged 7.5 next year, we're going to be 7.5 more and there will be no more debts. No, it's a matter of ladies and gentlemen, that the debts are growing faster and faster and that simply these powerful errands don't lead us anywhere. And what's even scariest of all, the scariest part of all is that FINA collects every tip, each page charges 40 kn. So who makes that code a fool? Well, in the county court when the pages are printed, if you're a defendant in some criminal proceedings, 2 kn is per page, if I'm not mistaken. And here you have 40 kunas. What's that worth? But to sum up another thought, with this kind of policy, FINA actually chokes the citizens, and the state itself, by imposing so much pressure around the performance, created the situation, that the vast majority, or that a significant part of the resources that you're actually completing is not going to the executives, that's the second part of the absurd paradox. So the money that's been taken away from citizens through FINA doesn't go to much of the executives, but to whom does it go? It goes to the executive mafia, goes to people who privatised the process of execution, like the Mason Marijan Hanžekovic and turned it into their own private profit center. So Croatian citizens are a private profit center, executives, poor people, for Mason Marijan Hanžekovic. And instead of panicing here in the Parliament, making that alarm, to question the business of FINA, i.e. the efficiency of that charge, if, in spite of the enormous charges, the debt continues to rise. And to question how public notebooks would even carry out them instead of courts, we here have a report of your work, in which you boast and expect us to accept it. I can tell you on behalf of my own, and in the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, that we will not accept this report here, we reject it, we do not accept it, but there are people who want to accept it. These are the HDZ gentlemen who created this executive law, the executive el dorado, who created people like Marijan Hanžekovic and who are actually doing very well in this business of the performance and who do not see the need for changes in the current system to help citizens. And thanks to HDZ, HNS and minority representatives, this proposal will pass today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51506	We are now going to the final debates on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51507	Today it is on the subject of FINA, you have all had opportunities to hear and see the terrible figures facing Croatian citizens. Over 300 thousand citizens have been blocked, astronomical amounts are being completed. However, the debt of the perpetrators does not fall. The cause of this is complex tuning on the one hand, and on the other hand the enormous costs of the sole tasks. So for a debt of 100 kuna, a minimum of 650, 700 kuna is completed. And the logical question is to ask why there is this anomaly, let's remove that anomaly, let's solve the problem. But instead of doing that, we're actually accepting FINA's report. We accept the current state as finally and definitely, that is, we are dealing with it. We of the Living Wall cannot reconcile with this number of blocked citizens by taking big money for small amounts. But what's the key thing and that goes beyond actually this whole aspect of the debate is that Croatia is the only country in the EU where public notebooks are conducted instead of courts. And when we go back, we'll realize that while the courts were carrying out the executions that we didn't have a problem with mass blockages, and on the other hand I'm saying what's going on. In Croatia, it is not happening anywhere in the EU. The question then arises what happened in Croatia that we have a problem with mass blockades. You don't need to be a genius. If we all know that there was a lecture of performance in the hands of public notebooks, there were little executions and few blocked, and after teaching this job to public notebooks, there was an explosion, obviously, where the problem arose. However, no one but the Living Wall is perceived or pointed to here. And what's even worse is that FINA should be the first to say, so the gentleman who's a representative of the FINA should go out for a pay phone and tell the ladies and gentlemen we're doing people, we're taking their money off the bill without judgments. What we do with public notebooks is we do people, or public notebook solutions take over the property of a powerful verdict, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. They are silent and do what they do, carry out their errands and praise their success, their success in the execution of citizens. The more people are done, the more the performance is done, the greater the success for them. The more money that's been taken, the more it's taken, the more it's done, the more it's done, the more it's done, the more For FINA, it would be likely that next year if it were to be for 2016 the report to say that a billion kunas more have been completed they would have said we have succeeded. And maybe even bonuses there give, maybe give. Here's what more money is taken for everyone, and they forget that FINA is a public institution, that its role shouldn't be making a profit, and the biggest horror that FINA does is to steal money in a way that people fake executive solutions, so they fake that a company owes me, say, 2 million kuna. I go with that falsified solution at FINA and I spend my time with it. And why is that? Because the system isn't digitized. So you can't get a gentleman from FINA into a unique register of, say, court rulings and see. Yeah, that verdict says that this man has to pay for it or he doesn't have to. And thanks to the fact that this is not done by the courts, because the executions have been handed over to the public notaries of the FINA staff cannot go to the Civil Court website to find the verdict and that number and check what it is. And that's why we're getting into a situation where only when the money comes up later, when the money disappears, then it's only as a problem of perception. But it's not an accident, it was purposely made so that you would actually get as much money as possible. And then the cost of that commission is charged by the perpetrators. That's even scarier. So the man they faked for a debt he doesn't owe has to pay the cost of that illegal charge. Where's the gentlemen? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] How do we support this report? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51508	Thank you. Last debate ended on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51509	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed representatives of the FINA. Here we are discussing the 2015 Report. The fact is, and I would agree with those who say that there is essentially legal interest in Croatia, because the fact is that many people with very little debt essentially eventually grow in amounts that they cannot repay, and even become lifelong slaves and inherit their families. And I'm sorry, we forgot to mention since we caught up with the Executive Act that not so long ago there was a proposal to amend the executive law. The amendments that were key, unfortunately they were not accepted at the time, and that is this part, the most important part where with the FINA that is probably boasting about its incomes, which is not good at all. It would be best if they didn't have any revenue on the charge of the charge. It means that the situation would be fine and that the system would be somewhat arranged, so it's pointless to even discuss that the positive business of FINA is in charge of the people they're carrying out. The fact is that the key problem here is that people are in lifelong slavery and that it was not long ago here. We can all remember. A little while ago it was even criticised here from a pay phone from fellow Pernar that MOST had done nothing. Well, as far as we know, there's been a change of law on the HTV performance, which is what you're witnessing. You are witnessing that the proposal was not adopted here which requested, that if someone returned the loan in full, both with interest and with the principal, and in the end it ended up with one real estate, because first of all, interest only, first of all, was charged only later on by the principal and that many people remained essentially without the first real estate, only for the reason that they eventually only returned the principals. They lose their jobs, and the principal comes back. And that was even suggested. It's been suggested that he doesn't have to live for life, that this debt doesn't have to be inherited. It was suggested that after a year the account was unblocked, if he was dead, if he was not alive and could not be completed. And that interest stops, so there's no interest in that year. All of this was proposed in this House by fellow parliamentary representatives, but then the representatives of the lobby, lawyers and bankers jumped in there. There was a debate, it was maybe in the afternoon and they stopped this process of community here in Parliament. The fact is that it's legalized interest on our citizens, the fact is that money is being drawn from all sides of our resources and potentials, through energy, through banks, through teleoperators. So the huge money is leaving, and the citizens are underprivileged by legal interest. It has been noted that the Executive Law of both the President of the Republic and what the President of the Republic proposed was here at Parliament, unfortunately, these amendments were not accepted. Once again, I hope that FINA won't be needed soon and that we won't have any profit from those that have been completed, because we need to find other alternatives, not hold the neck 300,000 blocked because it will basically be that potential will die forever because it will go to Ireland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51510	We have one replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51511	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, the tragedy in your actions is that you have a sharp rhetoric before the election and that you have the same now that you are in opposition. However, when you were in power, you did not have such rhetoric, you had much softer attitudes. And I'm wondering if the Bridge was in the government for 16 months, 17 as long as it was and you had it in your hands, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Police, the Ministry of Economy and the place of President of the Parliament, so what prevented you from removing all these irregularities within a short period of time. You had all the tools in your hands. But we can see that the number of completed and blocked unfortunately, not that it hasn't decreased but has increased again. Why did you allow yourself, to be so intoxicated, to be drugged, to be hypnotized by HDZ in some way, and to forget everything that you've actually gathered for? I sincerely want to believe that you may have learned something about these mistakes and that if you are ever in a position to co-ordinate with HDZ, and I believe that once again you may be, then you will certainly complete what you have announced in theory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51512	Replication response, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51513	Well, yeah, maybe I'm soft in rhetoric, otherwise you wouldn't be in Parliament right now, you wouldn't be an extraordinary election, if it weren't for me. I wouldn't be, so there's been an extraordinary election, and right now I'd probably, I'm glad you came to Parliament and you really have a great rhetoric. But you're in power now, you know that you're in power now, that the people on your list are also secretaries of the Justice Department and that you're positions you're certainly in, because you're very cunningly playing, one part of your list you sent to power executive, and here you play the opposition. While we were in power, I personally here did not support the budget. As long as I was, the state budget. And as for the tax, I supported, part yes, part no, but I would like you to, sir... You say you voted on the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You weren't, you were boasting, and you're holding rhetoric, mostly where you don't belong. It's so far... And it's your rhetoric and your objection to the president, if you can get out of the bench this way, because it's distracting me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51514	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51515	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Article 232. Representative Bulj misused the replica, because he replicated Agent Pernar, and the replica was to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51516	So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know it very well, there was a debate as well as any other. A fellow Bull. Here you go. You're giving up, okay. Then we have finals on behalf of the promoter, the respected Drazen Covic. Here you go. I ask you to behave, Comrade Bull, please behave in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51517	Mr. President, thank you. In the final word, I'd spend a lot of minutes correcting a bunch of inaccuracies, which is about the agency I run and about 3150 of her employees. Of the reports that are all mentioned there and precisely mentioned our business, you will see for yourself that FINA 60% of the income is generated on the market and on the market in which we deal with the banking industry and which is, you will recognize itself a very ungrateful competitor on that market services where you can see that payment can be made on a gas station, on a kiosk or anywhere else. We deal with this market, we develop in the digital part of society, and with 40% of our incomes we make with the state. 19% of our income comes out of business, and on these incomes, FINA doesn't live. We're working on the basis of the fees adopted by the regulations. FINA cannot and her work can be observed exclusively through the performance, but through the entire segment of our business. FINA works at 19 profit centers from the Central State Treasury, the National Clinical System,... advocacy, pre-fashion carding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I support the Department of Agriculture with blue diesel cards, etc. etc. It also lists the fact that we are setting up a company called FINA cash credits. It's not the credit, it's the service. These services deal with the commercial activity of transporting money. I wouldn't spend any more words on corrections, but I just want to say thank Mrs. Mac for the scale of things here. The FINA and the agency currently presenting its financial operations from 2015. The business of 2015 was what it was. We prepare a strategy for our development for the future period and in this strategy we will give our vision of the development of this house in one digital direction that we will support both the financial industry which is our key partner, so entrepreneurs and citizens. I also can't help but look back at the parts of our price list's interpretation. So everyone who comes to our counters except that they can get their eyewitnesses on paper can get in touch for 20 kunas no matter how many pages there are or via a personal user's free box. So, it is mentioned here that we are not interested in printing papers and selling papers, but that same information can be obtained for 20 kunas no matter how many are on contact or via a personal user's free box. I note once again that the financial report presented here is the result of business and work and transparent business all these years. FINA has since the former monopoly through the Department of Payments has now sought to transform the financial agencies into a house that will do business according to all market principles, according to the Law on Commercial Companies. We see our future in the digital world, and we will strive through our technology and all the people working in our technology to support both the financial industry, both citizens, entrepreneurs and the state in digital transformation. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51518	We have one replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51519	I'd like to ask the gentleman who represents FINA just one simple question. Does he consider it normal for the executions to be carried out in Croatia by public notebooks unlike all EU countries where the courts conduct them? Please give a concrete yes or no answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51520	Those who carry out the tasks are defined by Implementing Law. The law of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51521	Thank you very much. This led us to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Annual report of the Financial Agency for 2015. The applicant shall be the Financial Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The Annual Report of the Financial Agency for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I also find that this proposal has been supported by most votes, 81 for, 7 abstentions and 5 against, and a conclusion has been adopted that it has been proposed by the parent constituency committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51524	Thank you. You will be presented with the 2016 Report on the Management of the Pension Fund. It should certainly be noted that two months ago we had a Report from the Pension Fund for the period 2010 to 2015 This report, with a business review for the 2016 Fund, includes I would say one retrospective business from the draft to 2016 in my first opening part. Now, for starters, I'd like to say something about you who may not be familiar with the very purpose of the Pension Fund, something about a legal basis for the adoption of this report and the pension fund law itself. Based on the Law on Implementation, i.e. the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of May '98. the year which entered into force in 2004 shall be governed by the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision to compensate the beneficiaries of pensions which took place due to the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. A year. The beneficiaries of age, temporary age, disability, family pensions were entitled to compensation under the provisions of the '91 Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension-Inhabitation Insurance. the year and the Retirement-Invalid Insurance Act and how I have already pointed out for the period since September '93. until December 31st, '98. a on the basis of the alignment of these pensions with the movement of average net salaries of all employees in the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the same period. The law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision also defined that the compensation of pensioners would be achieved through a specific fund to be established by a special law. It is certainly about the Retirement Fund Act on which this report was submitted for 2016, and this Retirement Fund Act was adopted in 2005. This law establishes the Pension Fund and determines how pensioners are compensated. HPB Invest d.o.o. as from November 2005, in accordance with the asset management contract of the Pension Fund, he shall carry out management tasks of this Fund. The beneficiaries of pensions at that time could decide on the selection of the compensation model by choosing between two models, model A and model B. Model A and half-payments of the amount of compensation within two years or model B to pay the total amount of compensation within 8 years from two years. Two registers have been established, a basic register of fund members and a register of users of the family's highest pensions of fund members. The first payment was made in June 2006, and in December 2013, the last war worth 117.1 million kuna was paid. This report taxively lists from the very beginning to 2015 the way in which the payments are due after the wars. So from the draft Pension Fund to December 2013, a total of 10.3 billion kuna was paid for 488, 577 of its members. That amount should certainly be added to the amount of 180 million kuna paid or transferred from the Fund on 21 December 2015 for the purpose of paying a one-off payment of pension income to the beneficiaries of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. It's about the fund's business I'd say briefly by 2015. This report shows, in return, focusing on non-business with the assets of the fund for 2016. On 31 December 2016, the balance of funds in the account of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund amounted to 6 million 875 263 kuna. During 2016, claims of compensation came daily even though the last war of the Pension Fund was paid as stated in December 2013. HPB Invest responded according to the contract to the enquiries of the fund members and their successors, public notaries, lawyers and courts of the Republic of Croatia. All enquiries concerned the rights of members and heirs of the Pension Fund and the payment of pension debt. In total, 6 disputes totalling 400,000 kunas are held without heavy interest and court costs. The HPB Invest has processed and implemented all the settlement solutions that were delivered in 2016 by the heirs of the fund members. The HPB Invest is also in accordance with Article 34. The Pension Fund Act must issue an information prospectus to the Pension Fund with information from the previous year. The prospectus contains information about the fund, the company and the depositary bank. This was done in accordance with the law and in 2016 HPB Invest issued and published a prospectus of the Pension Fund containing information from 2015. The financial reports of the Fund for 2016 were audited by the Deloitte Auditing House. The financial report gave a positive opinion by the auditory house, and the Management Board of the Pension Fund adopted audited financial reports each year at its meetings. As last time we concluded, that is, as concluded after the transfer of the report on the operation of the fund from 2010 to 2015, as the last war of compensation was paid in 2013 and 6 small-value disputes ended the need for the existence of the fund. In accordance with the then and conclusion of July of this year, the draft law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act adopted in the first reading was drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51525	We have two replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51526	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected chief state treasurer with representatives of the HPB Invest here tonight. Actually, I'd like to say something briefly, given all the information that you've given us in your opening statement here. In fact, after that decision of the Constitutional Court for the compensation of pensions especially for the users of age-old early disability pensions and family pensions under the Law on... Actually, what do I want to say? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was a good story, one success story, one quality story and the next of all the negative things, the blackness, the disaster in the Republic is few of those who are going to say today that we did one good thing, one useful thing about our pensioners. Here I would especially like to point out both HPB and d.o.o. An investment that actually made for the account of young people and the Pension Fund within those legal deadlines publicly and transparently protecting the user, of course the pensioners professionally and responsibly their work which especially delights me and actually says that we are able to do those things that have been impossible for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51527	Thank you. And another replica, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51528	Dear representatives, I'm interested in a problem involving all pensioners born after 1962 who are currently retired. They don't get an extra 27% on that pension. I'm interested in that, and they actually have less pensions than people with the same internship who left them a little early, or they're a little over the age. When, or how does the system intend to correct that injustice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51529	Are you able to make a proposal representative now or at the end of the day as you end up? You got it. Then we move on to the board's hearing, the chairman of the committee, the esteemed colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 20th session held on 22 September 2017, the Labour, Pension and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Report on the Management of the Pension Fund from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, which was delivered to the President of the Assembly by the Management Board of the Pension Fund by act of 8 June 2017. The Committee discussed this act in accordance with Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body. The Committee also held a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that act which the Government proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a report on business and in the opening statement of representatives of the proposal, as well as at the sitting, pointed out that the Retirement Fund Act was adopted and applied for the implementation of the obligations arising from the Law implementing the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia and gave us all the information which is more or less known in the Republic of Croatia and model A and model B for how many users were per individual model, i.e. the conclusion that the sixth and final war of model B were paid in 2013 and that from the establishment of the Pension Fund total payment of 10.2 billion kuna for 488 577 of its members, and on 31.12 days on the account of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Fund amounted funds. Following the discussion, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion that the Report on the Management of the Pension Fund was adopted from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51531	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of representatives GLAS and HSU and respected colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51532	Dear Mr. President, dear Mrs. Bajo is an undisputed state treasurer, but tonight as chairman of the Management Board of the Pensions Fund, a respected member of the HPB Administration Invest Mrs. Lidija Grbesic. I'm glad that here's the report, and last time we'll hear about the Retirement Fund. Tonight, the next time we're going to read again, we're going to talk about the Retirement Fund's quit law, and this story is really, really going to be over. I wouldn't, I mean I share with my colleague Babic that this is one project that came from the beginning to the end, which is controlled, which is successful. However, it was not easy to come to the realization of the project. I remember there in 2004 it was relatively easy to pass the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, but then find a model of how to depriving pensioners wasn't that simple. There was a reflection on whether to place a certain asset in that fund, from dividends or by selling assets, or in some other or third way. So it wasn't that simple. But then the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to even sell some interesting companies. Some accused us of selling some future of Croatia, however, if we're going to watch Pliva when she lost the Institute she lost her future and she was just a regular, not a strategic firm and so on in order of another firm, and the state was obliged to return or defile its citizens by the Constitutional Court's decision. Of course, there were all previous governments and Matešina Government and the Government of Ivica Racans who were wrong when you thought that collective methods would repay the debt to the pensioners through the add-on from zero to twenty percent, i.e. through an add-on of 100 kuna plus six percent. Collective methods cannot return to individual law because each pension is the individual right of each pensioner and there are different periods of retirement and are different levels of damage suffered by the pensioners during the period 1993, September '93. until the end of '98. A year. Thus, it was not possible to complete the process until an individual damage account was carried out. In doing so, it is worth saying that those who were shorter in retirement during that observed period and of course damaged less than what they received through the table kuna and six percent of them remained 100 kunas and six percent, and that was incorporated into the base. I think, of course, after that, they blamed us for creating an increased difference between old and new pensioners, but I think it's fair for all the traumas that the pensioners have experienced and that they have in some way participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia through their significant resources that were then available in the country of Croatia. Of course, the pre-existing formation of the Pension Fund was the second law to be passed in 2005 by which we have today's report here and that I was talking about. It was actually brought in in 2005 and joined the establishment of the fund and there were quite a lot of administrative jobs. Even in a very difficult time somewhere in early 2006 came the offer of model A and model B. Until then, it was negotiated for everyone to get everything. Then came an offer from the Prime Minister that those who want to go to four wars in two years can take 50%, and those who insist on the full compensation that they will get it over a six-year period with a start of two years. I remember all these details alive because I participated in all these details, and we even controlled the postcards to the citizens, the 488000 who left. It's not that much, because then it's still in the process, there were errors in the calculation, so the fee, not the travel, very small number, a couple hundred included compensation. So we've been controlling it all along, and the whole business, the fund has been kind of in our best interests. I must say that five members of the board of directors who I am extremely proud of were from the ranks of pensioners, except in 2009-2011 when they were replaced with HDZ pensioners, because then, as an HSU representative, I stepped out of the coalition. But they were always retired, so out of all these years, only two years were not under control, but nothing happened at the time. And I think that the members of the HPB investment administration were happy with their contribution, because they insisted on the full implementation of the laws, the statutes of pension funds and all possible rules on the publication of the prospectus, to audits and insisted on all possible reports. If we haven't had them here since 2010-2015, it doesn't mean they haven't been here. All reports were also adopted on the Management Board. The truth is, I have to say that this number of 10 billion and 252 million kuna is not a final number, because in December 2015 another 180 million kuna was paid as a one-time monetary allowance, i.e. a Christmas card for Croatian pensioners. In fact, these funds remained from the so-called so-called The sharp pensions, when the uninherited pensioners died and the funds remained from some, let's not mistake the soul, but there were more than 30,000 beneficiaries of the damages they were entitled to, but the amounts were extremely small. You know, there were 50 lip choices, 50 kuna, 5 kuna, 20 kuna, etc. And when someone sent someone a reckoning and said that the state owed him 20 kn and then they wanted to make a statement he wanted everything in 6 years with a start of 2 years or he wanted half of 20 kunas in 4 wars in 2 years, then they sent us, those 30,000 of all of us together that we worked here, they sent us to the devil, and they never answered to declare whether they wanted to pay off by model A or model B. And those funds stayed and that was left by the pensioners, and we were in 2015, regardless of when I announced that it was possible to pay off the Christmas card, they asked where the money was. However, these money was handed over to the HPB and thanks to all this information, looking at reports from the pension fund board, as it was all seen, were found funds and paid to all pensioners according to the social criteria. So for those who had fewer pensions, they got bigger Christmases, those who had a bigger pension, they got smaller Christmases, that is, a one-time cash supplement. Here, it's just to add, otherwise I don't have anything to say to what the board of directors gave one responsible, it's all fair and correct and as far as this report is concerned, since there were no practical cash transactions in 2016, you can all sleep peacefully and in half the night raise your hand. That's how the GLAS and HSU club will make it, so we're going to support absolutely this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51533	But we won't vote at midnight. ... The second is the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected counterpart Mladen Karlic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51534	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the respected chairman of the board of directors, the pension fund, the respected representative of the HPB investment. Dear colleagues, here are a few words I will just say about this subject, since Mr. Hrelja has, with a ferociousness, said it eloquently as a participant, but unfortunately I belong to that generation for 62 years, which so far have a 27% lower pension, if he left, but I think we can really praise this report, since we really discussed the five-years ago, since 2010-2015, where we could really see the business of the fund and cash flow. And also here in the business report we have a table with all payments all over the months, all the details, all these years where they've actually been solved debt to the pensioners. I think we can be happy to accept this report and, of course, as the HDZ Club, we will support it. Since HPB invested professionally, effectively, within the law on all scheduled deadlines, it allowed the implementation of this extremely important, technically complex project and payment... Retired, even in 2013 in fact somehow fulfilled all his obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's till now a2016. In fact, it continues to carry out those tasks that are in some way binding or imposed on it, which means that it still solves the enquiries of the current pensioners who appear to be responsible for carrying out financial reports, business audits and what is important for the Croatian state to account, the Government now has 6 million kunas left behind after a full job and therefore I think that we can accept this report and that the HDZ will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51535	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51536	Mr Karlic of HDZ praises this report on the work of the Pension Fund, and we see that statistics are thus saying that Croatian pensioners are the poorest in the EU, that thousands of pensioners cannot survive their pension, that they have to dig through the trash. How a person can be satisfied with the report on the work of the Pension Fund when his users dig through the trash, eat in the soup kitchen, live with blocked accounts, freeze, etc. I think the reform of the pensioner's system that made HDZ is that it took the second pillar of the pensioner to fail, that it reduced pensions to the pensioners and that the only ones who will profit from it, unfortunately, funds or funds managers of the private funds, rather than pensioners themselves. This reform of yours and this policy of yours is at the will of the IMF and of the World Bank and of the European Commission and similar organisations, not unfortunately in the interests of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51537	Reply to the replica of counterpart Karlić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51538	Dear Mr. Pernar. So we must all be satisfied at least in some way that we managed 10.5 billion kuna Croatian state in its creation practically managed to pay back to the pensioners and thus help them to make these pensions not so small, that they are paid back in fact to be as righteous as possible. And on all of us here and in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian state, it is our job to work to have as many employees as possible so that those funds that pay pensions can be as large as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51539	Okay, now let's go to SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51540	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. We have before us a report on the operation of the Pension Fund and if we have already adopted the first reading because this Pension Fund ceases its validity. What should show that the Pension Fund is a story of two things, one story is that the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity obviously cannot withstand this demographic pressure that we have, which is that few people are doing, and it's relatively much retired. Let me remind you, in 1988, in 1989, a million and almost 800 thousand people worked in Croatia and there were 500 thousand pensioners, which means almost 1:3 which clearly produced a great stability of the Pension Insurance Office, there was money to pay off three annual pensions. We know what happened there in the 1990s when the Mirovinski Fund was robbed and those funds were used to defend Croatia, and I believe they were used for other unholy purposes. Therefore, this Pension Fund, in a way, has been compensated to the citizens of Croatia who have properly singled out the first pension fund and had a regular pension, should have had pensions from the first pension fund. The pension pension fund has passed more governments, more coalitions, and that's the first story that you'd like to talk about, which is that when some things are set up well and made well to survive all governments in the same form that was from the beginning and that no government has changed the very purpose of the fund or the way of payment through that fund, which says that we can do good things together. But that's also the story of the first pillar being unable to endure in the future all those challenges of demographics ahead. As I said at the end of the 1990s, Croatia was 1:3, and now we're moving 1:1,2 to 1.19 depending on how many more employees we have in the tourist season or not. We must therefore look for new exits through reform of the pension system and together make changes that we expect to lead to higher pensions in Croatia and stable pension systems. I see through this another kind of stabilisation of the pension system, which is that famous supplement of 3 to 27%, which was first a pension supplement, and then after that we included the supplement in the pension and thus increased the pensions paid out of the first pension column. There is also a consensus between the position and the opposition and that these changes that were then made remain further and allowed the pensioners not to be two classes of pensioners but to both, that it doesn't matter what years you went into retirement that your pension would correspond to the amount you singled out in the first pension column. Therefore, I personally cannot accept what is written in the Law on Defence, which is that in the new Proposal of the Law on Defence is trying to create two groups of pensioners, one who retired under the Pension Insurance Act, and others who are retired under the Law on Defence because this will lead to two classes in Croatia, two groups of pensioners who should have the same rights because we are all the same under the law. And I plead to propose, and in the first place there is a position that suggests this law to consider whether those rights under the Pension Insurance Act should be changed to comply with those broad rights that we give through the Law on Defence. I note that it is very large financial resources. Probably the secretary of state when she's mentioned it probably doesn't look very good at the problem. And one problem that will also arise in the coming years which is already the current problem is that those 27% are not included for those pensioners in Croatia who will receive a pension from the first and second pension pillar and then we are creating again two groups of pensioners, one who could only leave the first pillar and those others who could not because the law did not allow them to choose whether they could retire from the first or second pension pillar. And if we don't do something, we're in the process of amending the Retirement Act. We'll get two groups of pensioners again. We already have them. And I hope that this law will come quickly to the agenda and that the government will react, because at this point in Croatia we have about twenty pensioners who have almost 1000 kuna less pensions than his same colleague who was born in 1961 because he could retire through the first pension column. And all those who were born in '62. They had to go through the law by force through the first and second retirement pillars. They are now receiving 1,000 kuna less pensions for six months, and I believe that it is not the government's position and Minister Pavic's view that it is not a problem, because it is 20 fates, 20 people who are receiving at this time less pension than they should receive. And I hope that there will be a consensus that this supplement will be introduced for those who receive pensions from the first and second pension pillars. Retirement fund's done its job, he's done good things. He gave people back the money they deserved. We had the possibility then that some of the funds that were left in the account instead of returning to the state budget which every finance minister would greatly appreciate, but then we estimated that these were pensioners' funds, to return them back to those who were meant for them, so we divided those funds as an add-on, one symbolic supplement to retirement. And these 6 million left will be quite enough to cover these court costs or possibly judgments that come in the future since there are not many requests and court proceedings regarding the pension fund itself. He's history, but it's a beautiful story that things can be arranged in Croatia. The SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51541	We have two replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51542	Dear fellow Mrsic, that you have made this very clear and I confirm it. This is one project that has passed, this is the fifth government to deal with this since 2004, and no one has really questioned anything about this compensation. If they didn't want to do it, if it was too hard for them, but they all did it fair and square as it was drawn from the beginning. The other part of your debate went towards possible changes in the pension system. I just have to say that, not that if we progress this far with the additional rights of the defense attorneys I don't mind having realised the government's decision to return 10% of them because that's the case, it's the law. But if we burden the central register and the registers of municipalities and cities, and we have no measure in that story, we're going to stegmatize them first, and the second one never ends, then we're never going to have any measures. And not that it won't last first, it won't stand a chance of state finances because they're all sort of being run out as the cost of the first retirement stake. It's got nothing to do with the other one, or the third pension column. And not that it won't last, but it won't last the state finances. And I ask everyone to be reasonable and I appeal to all the defenders that this country leads about them, but that they do not seek without the need for bread next to a cake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51543	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51544	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrelja. You're primarily credited for fighting for pensioners' rights. And this fund is also your credit. Then you did a great thing for the pensioners, but I think we will all have to make very clear about what and who we allow in Croatia to acquire part or extended pension rights. Because if we let the defenders have the right to work and they went into early retirement, we also have to enable pensioners who go through the Pension Insurance Act. If we allow the pension to be raised by a certain level, we must also enable people who retire through the Pension Insurance Act. We can't create two caste pensioners, one with very large rights, one with those rights that the state can. On the other hand, I warn again that this story about the Pension Fund, and the story of the supplement, is a de facto story of the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity that cannot withstand the demographic pressure that he had, which is definitely problematic when we have 1:1.2 pensioners. What was good was that the pensioners had a stable system, that pensions would come every day, and whether we'd have those times when the pensioners had big funds in the fund, we probably wouldn't have any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51545	The second replica is a colleague of Maras, and he's gone, so he loses his right and also loses his right to an individual debate. So now we're going to the debate finally on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51546	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, and our dear proposings. I just want to say it's too bad that there's no one who's provoked me to report to the final five minutes when we're talking about the problem of restitution of the pensioners that it's not necessary to whine. The fate of the pensioners is difficult, we know all the statistics, I think we need to know that we're digging both in containers and not just the pensioners, but I think we have to stick to all these difficult situations of the subject and what's good to say is good, what's done is done, what's not going to have to be dealt with. But first, to discuss some things, I've been here since 2003, and I'm constantly connected to the pension system of compensation projects, etc. And I think I know a lot, but also every day something I don't know yet was discovered. It is not a simple system and memorized to talk about this system and what needs to be done about the large profits of the fund manager and to break up the system, but it is the easiest, to break up the system and to be against everything there is no wisdom. In a way, I'm caused by my colleagues' reaction because I care about defending this project, but also the pension system that we have to discuss more often and we have to give solutions, and we also have to do what we can, correct the injustices in any case. One of these injustices is that of which Mrsic spoke, this injustice, and it does not have to be in my opinion, it is wrong to read the articles of the law by HZMO because in one case they act in one way, and in another way, and even I do not need to change the law in order to bring it into order. What the government will do will have more solutions on the table offered, therefore it will not be able to say that it has no idea what to do. I'll tell you more possible solutions. Here, of course, once again I confirm that we are pleased and grateful here and Mrs. Lidija Grbešić, who as a member of the HPB Invest Administration all these years is worth our time and very professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51547	We have one replica of dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51548	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Hrelja, the easiest thing to say is that a second pillar should be abolished, the finance ministry will be extremely happy to receive more than 80 billion kuna, and on the other hand Minister Goran Maric will be happy because he will get shares of companies he can manage and then sell them. But what it does won't lead to pensioners going to retire in ten, 15 years having life-worthy pensions. Therefore, what is necessary is to continue the way we are going and, in addition, to look at pensioners in front of us, look at current pensioners, and that means that we should see what can be done for today's pensions that are extremely small, and in this respect, we may make certain adjustments in order for the pensions now received by our pensioners to be something greater than they are, but clearly we need one prerequisite, which is growth and a strong economy, a good and large budget so that we can support possible pressure to increase pensions in a certain percentage because if you increase pensions by just 1% that's 360, 370 million kuna per year, and those pensioners who have pensions of around 2,300 kuna are 23 kuna per month. Therefore, for a bigger jump, there should be much greater growth, but the same thing should be considered and seen in what way this could happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51549	And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51550	Dear fellow Mrsic, I would be happy if that disastrous thesis about the collapse of the second pillar was welcomed by Mrs. Treasurywoman, but I don't think you would agree with her either. She well knows that there are around 700 million kunas of cash in the mandatory pension funds, and everything else is paper. So Mrs Bajo or the Ministry of Finance would get nothing because most of it was serviced and the debt of the general state or credited to the state. However, it has its own dynamics and on the day someone retires they are capitalised, so pension funds turn into money that goes into a fashion that is later paid to pensioners. So, all those who advocate such catastrophic solutions here, I think they should be told that they are wrong and that what we have should only be used more useful and better, specifically in better projects that create better jobs and that are long-term. Here from this pay phone I was talking about the project of the port of Gruž, it has been said several times about the construction of hydropower plants that have been returning long-term money and essentially raises that capitalised savings of citizens, and one other time I will say one other heresy, that we should separate from our natural resources by kuna, by cubic meter, by cubic, by the cube of stone, etc. for our pensioners. Because there are no jobs and their pensions will be small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51551	Thank you. And final address on behalf of the promoter, respected Ivana Jakir-Baja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51552	... Fund, I think it's correct that on behalf of all the presidents of the board of directors so far, thank you and MP Hrelja has overstepped me. [[Specially enabled.]] Certainly, HPB's investment and our Lydia who followed all these presidents who have changed over the years. We are safe, and clearly there were positive audit reports that could confirm the good work of the pension fund. Here I would also like to thank you for the correct debate and support and especially the representative of Hrelja who has been following the work of the pension fund from the very beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51553	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Report on the operation of the Pension Fund from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 The applicant shall be the Management Board of the Pension Fund. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the operation of the Pension Fund is hereby adopted from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that 94 votes for and 1 vote with abstention has reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51556	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll try to be brief. It is incomplete 6 months than I had the opportunity to comment on the annual report of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2015 and I am lucky that 16 years is really fast. So I will just remind myself of the basic elements of the document that represents, the primary position of responsibility of an independent energy market regulator and energy activity in relation to the Croatian Parliament under which it is legally and legally responsible. I will remind HERA is an independent and non-profit institution with public authority. It was founded in early 2000 and after several legal changes in 2012 was formed in its present form, in which it is practically transposed from the European context of regulators. Such categories of regulators, independent types rooted in European rules. Croatia has 4 with HERA there are more AZTN, HACOM and HANFA. So one side of this story is the necessary independence of such regulatory bodies. The other side of that story is the responsibility and the public of the work. This year's report is precisely a manifestation of this obligation, that the regulatory body will, once a year, and, if necessary, show the wish and more frequent information on the monitoring of the legal framework, the implementation of European rules and games, and Croatian rules of play on the energy market. Focused primarily on what we call the internal energy market, therefore, the electricity market and natural gas, including those components that are in the power of HERA, to monitor them. There is heating above all, and also in one procedural and accompanying part and the topic of renewable sources, which is again a subset of electricity. After 2013 after our integration into the EU, HERA received, in addition to its obligations on the domestic market, its obligations on the European agenda and has become part of the hatred of independent regulatory bodies in EU energy, and thus also a member of ACER and CER, respectively, of energy regulation bodies in Europe. So our mission, as I've had several occasions to explain, is regulation of energy activities, i.e. covering those components of the market that are considered natural monopolies, these are meaning here's hate and wire. In addition to monitoring and regulation of this component, the HERA ultimately determines tariffs and prices, guarantees free access to infrastructure, except for all implementation and implementation of Croatian laws in the field of energy market, protects customers in segments of regulated activities and implements those dynamic components that occur every year and come from European legislation. I'm not going to burden you with those things that are at this point may be too extensive, but the energy strategy is being formulated in some other places by energy policy components are being defined in the executive government. HERA is here to implement these laws, HERA is here to monitor dynamics on the market, even this year's report, so it has 2 or 3 basic components. It provides certain statistics and dynamics of last year's events in the energy markets in Croatia. It gives a certain judgment to which the market has developed, makes certain recommendations, so in the structure that you have before you we have tried somewhere in the opening parts, and in each of the parts and we have made some recommendations, which is what this honorable House has on several occasions insisted on, to try to potential those things that we consider to be a space of improvement in Croatian energy. You will notice that this document has grown over the past few years on almost 200 pages, we are in a similar situation as our pandan at European level, so... ACER whose documents have already become so large and then necessarily and hard to read that they are considering breaking such documents into several parts, so it's very likely that this is the last and last to say, an integral edition of this report. So we're assuming that we're going to try to separate the statistics from those basic evaluations, evaluations and tips that we'd put in the front, hopefully the next version of this document is going to be a little bit more clear. But it has its own weight because it is a source of some sort of statistical data that is systematically used in Croatia, and in some ways it represents a certain tradition. The structure is more or less known, it is in line with European principles of structure of such documents, it starts with general assessments, but then covers three groups of markets, covers the internal market, means electricity, natural gas and heat. With natural gas going both oil and bio-energy, and in a sub-supply of electricity we also have a comment on renewable sources where HERA does not have the role of regulators but has the role of someone participating in the process, however, as the repercussions of the use of renewables are broad, how they have consequences on other elements then, of course, and that is the inevitable part of this. Each of these divisions, each of these sections, I apologize, also has a component concerning the quality of the service, which concerns some characteristics of security of supply, the characteristics of the infrastructure and the way in which customers or users of public service in energy are trying to protect themselves. I would not enter the data of each of these areas because the time has moved away and this mainly shows a wealth of statistics that everyone of interest can look at but one general comment on 2016, perhaps not burned. In 2016, on the plan of functioning only the energy system was indeed quite stable for a year. So, all the energy systems in the technical sense of words functioned reliably, we didn't have incidents that would indicate that there are structural problems of infrastructure both in electricity and in gas, and even in heat that I say, we follow in one other way. We shouldn't take credit for this, but this was also the year in which three, in fact, two to three years in a row of circumstances in Europe's wholesale markets went to the benefit of customers so that we notice our market primarily at wholesale levels, this is the third year of a slight decline, so that the price increases resulting from electricity and natural gas activities themselves were not, the infrastructure costs remained on a constant level, the goods fell noticeably. Especially at the wholesale level and with the development of the market in recent years you can see both gas and electricity in the retail market. In fact, opening up, the entry of new players has created a certain component of competition here and here, which should lead to a lasting pressure down the price in the long term. In the infrastructure components, HERA has permanently tried to say, pressure from energy entities, try to boost savings, control as much investment policy as possible, and that we have at least stable results, if not some cost-effectiveness of infrastructure components. As far as everything else is concerned, the important events of that year that show that a good part of the European regulation is being taken over and there are still serious tasks in this area is also the fact that two major procedures have been made, the Croatian transport system operator, the transmission system in electricity... certification, sometime in early 2016, which means that the key element of electricity infrastructure is a fully homologous game rules in the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a procedure that was quite difficult, quite long-term, but successfully completed. This is what we are about to end in the gas area, so we assume that in the next one we will be able to report on the overall completion of the certification procedure and for PLINCR. In particular, given the shift we have heard in recent weeks of working in the new Law on State Property, we believe that even the latest steps towards PLINACRO certification will be completed soon, so that the entire Croatian infrastructure system will be recognised and confirmed as comparable and equal to the European system. The second important thing in 2016 in this work that crosses the borders of Croatia is the successful launch of the market for the day ahead, which Croatia's CROPEX electricity stock market, after becoming a nominated authorised operator in Croatia at the end of last year, by our solution, CROPEX successfully launched the Croatian market for the day ahead and in 2017, and for the day that creates assumptions that serious quantities have already been... implemented from renewable sources, successfully integrate into the electricity market, something that will be growing in the coming years, an increasingly intense problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, after that relative in 2016, I would just end up with the fact that what is coming for us, I hope that this market and this report will confirm these rather positive trends on the market and in the quality of supply and in reducing losses. In 2017 and 2018 we are engaged in the implementation of the so-called so-called implementation of the programme. the network of codes, therefore, of unique network codes that the EU is introducing in both electricity and gas areas, are documents that are mainly developed, which are around 50% already implemented in our regulations but which are essentially creating uniform rules for the EU's complete gas and electricity market. A major challenge and something launched or put into the public at the end of last year, in the 12th month, the EU, or the European Commission, has published a cleaner package, something considered unofficially a fourth energy package, a whole document of over a thousand sides that will pass through the procedure of the European Parliament by the end of 2018 and become binding for us by that time. In preparation for this next step in a revolution which is essentially not only the completion of the market but is actually dedicated to a fully deep penetration of renewable sources in the practice of electricity markets that will imply significant changes in the management of the electricity market that will require additional equipment. So that's the next big challenge ahead of us. It changes the total paradigm of the buyer of electricity and, over several years, the dominant relationship will no longer be a customer in relation to the manufacturer, but each of the market participants will actually be in a position to hand it over at the same time to the system and take it from the system, be a buyer and producer. Which, of course, presents a huge challenge for equipment, for measuring devices, for managing the system itself and for buffering oscillations that such unpredictable or difficult predictable, almost stochastic system will impose. The storage of energy as one part that fills this future energy with its spikes and sinks on emobilitia issues, and the topic of protection against cyber crime. That's what we're dealing with right now, with everything that's been a routine part of ours for a few years. We have a regional integration of the market where certain steps have already been taken in the field of electricity, but during this year and next year we assume that integration with the electricity market will be completed for a day in advance at the Croatian-Slovenian border and then we will have a similar problem on the Hungarian border. We are essentially becoming part of a larger whole and in this context Croatia is whole so-called. core groups within which the integration of electricity markets will develop. And something like that, a little shy, but it's coming in the gas. The energy strategy we are waiting for will give us other answers to which the regulator will also know and hope to set up, waiting for us in the perspective of, say, some 3 years, the way towards a complete market deregulation which will change the role of regulators again and giving more and more attention to monitoring and increasing daily interventions. And our large infrastructure projects, which the regulator of course seeks to monitor as much as possible, of course we are talking about LNG first and also about SINKO GRID and some other major energy projects. These are the topics I'm saying I hope we'll be able to present in the next report. I urge everyone to take a closer look at this report, to give us any questions they may be interested in. Even after last debate, we tried to answer certain questions directly by mailing the questions of parliamentary representatives, so we will gladly continue to do so. And I beg you in that sense, and I suggest you adopt this report. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51557	Thank you. We've got five replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Bull's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51558	I am sorry that this is not in the morning so that Croatian citizens can listen to all this as a regulator and as you who see the market what you have made possible for them, how you have actually allowed consumers to rob. You say you oversee the energy market, no heat consumption from an existing heat system has changed its supplier and you talk about the market. Can you give an example that someone has transferred the consumer from the heat market to that market? As far as I'm aware, you're not stating in the report that he's transferred, of course it's very important that the privileges you've been given were very effective in the pre-nup year-on-year, to the old year-on-year, and to the Silvestero that you're privileged for two biomass projects that didn't start Benkovac and Zupanja today, but of course it was sold to the old people and that they could sell, in order to sell, she had to get HERA's extension of the privilege. These two projects are the power of 10 megawatts, which means 80 million kuna per year, which must be paid to them for 15 years. That's 1.2 billion kuna in total. Both companies are privately owned by Tomislav Rados, Vrdoljak's assistant and his right hands. How many more privileges have you given in the companies of former HEP directors from the HNS party champions to HDZ members, various tycoons, this would be discussed. Only the first gas company you have issued three solutions for a total of 12 megawatts of 115 million incentives per year in 15 years, as many as 1 billion kunas that CROTE will have to pay and, of course, that price will eventually be paid by citizens. So you've affected everyone at the expense of our consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51559	Okay. Second replica, dear colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51560	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Jurkovic, so you mentioned in your presentation a slight change in the reporting methodology itself, it would be absolutely convenient among this number of pages if we could get along even better. However, you estimated that 2016 was stable. And what you mentioned to me in your report is certainly for us to underline and let's say one proposal in the direction that we should go and that's about the losses, in the transmission of electricity that is 7.6% for last year. And when we see from that that report of yours says that 50% of non-technical losses are then we can certainly look for space with both distributors and suppliers bound up, sure they're calculated losses. So that's where we can literally talk about stealing electricity. You also mentioned certified CAPS, therefore, according to the 3rd EU energy regulation package, it started in 2013 and I am glad to hear that it ended after 3-4 years. So anyway, in this section, we're going to support this report, and hopefully still good news like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51561	Thank you. We have a third line, dear colleague of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51562	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the gentleman, business year 2014. City gas station Zagreb d.o.o. ended with net profits of nearly 19 million kuna. The city gas station Zagreb supplies 24 million kuna, and together made profits of nearly 43 million kuna. The question for HERA is why HERA was doing an extraordinary audit of the company that was doing business with profits to raise it... 26% margin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why this public gathering went unnoticed, why the government reduced the supply price of gas by 12%, which was expected to result in a 10% reduction in the final price of gas for the city's gas industry. However, the price of gas has been reduced by only 5.9%. Since HERA kicks raised an extensive margin by 15%, and... 26% margin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The public didn't know for the sake of reducing the gas purchase price that the well-being of the gas supply was 12% halved due to the action of HERA, so if you can answer the question?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51563	The answer will be written, what you said... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then let's go to the next line, it's a respected colleague of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51564	Well, like my colleague Bulj, he would have expressed regret that such an important topic affecting a good part of our citizens, that is, almost everything, is in such a late time. It is well known to this Viskom home that the report by HERA for 2015 is not accepted at the vote, that it is not accepted. And then there was a change in the wording that it was being taken to know just so it would go away. It was probably done with premeditation in order to achieve or consume this unnatural coalition with HNS, the bridge was transferred to protect HNS personnel, and we were just about to deal with that energy octopus. So much is unfounded in this report of yours. There's so much to explain. I didn't realize now, you're here to answer all these questions in writing, and my colleague Bulj has raised some questions. Now I've answered individually, so I'll do it in the debate, but you can't talk about it, watching the market, and that was a good point. So when it didn't happen at all, you gave no example that a single heat consumer changed the supplier. So, you haven't done your job, you haven't developed the market, and later in an individual debate, I will present what I resent and what is problematic and I believe that our colleague Slaven Dobrović, as a former minister, will have a lot of objections.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51565	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51566	I'm sorry, maybe if I could just tell you about this subject. When I was talking about market surveillance, I was talking about internal market components, talking about electricity and gas. Heat energy and its character and to what extent it is what is market-based came from the Heat Energy Act, which tried to install the customer component inside. In any case, it wasn't brought by HERA. Comments on the nature of the market, or the attempt to introduce the market into thermal energy, successful less or more, remain beyond the range of this report. It primarily refers to monitoring developments in the electricity market and the natural gas market. But indeed what might have been overly ambitious was expected to be commented, but could not be considered an object of the monitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51567	Thank you. And five replicas, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51568	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, of course my replica is going in that direction, something that may be most interested in Croatian construction, because the announced purchases of electricity are tied to privileged contracts, to privileged energy producers. My question is how it's possible that contracts were concluded before the state of the field was entrusted. That some legal persons have been extended privileged contracts, even though in the field they didn't actually have some went bankrupt and some didn't actually stick a shovel, so to speak. How is it possible that this was happening? Wasn't it checking up? And the long thing that's about protecting consumers, you've now mentioned with thermal energy, yet I don't understand it now, because when we're talking about making cost analysis and getting a cut, you paid the external performer nearly half a million kuna, and two months ago. Another £48000 has been reserved to draw up an opinion on a study that has been paid nearly half a million kuna. Isn't there anyone among the numerous HERA well-paid experts who has an opinion on the study they ordered themselves. And for the introduction of measuring devices for gas, HERA reserved 350,000 kn, in 2017. Creating a methodology for cost analysis and obtaining the introduction of advanced measuring devices and systems for their networking in the gas area. And now the only thing you were saying about the previous reply to the replica, only for the warmth of HERA was not held responsible for doing a study of the cost of construction. On the contrary, its members, administrations and directors in a complete conflict of interest, visited foreign heat equipment manufacturers and took a keen part in their installation, after legally binding citizens on the installation of divisors, which today, in a large part of the cases, are not in office. So this explains to me that HERA is not in charge of thermal heat consumption control is not too high for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51569	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51570	I don't know what order to comment on, but we're getting out of the middle. So it's a legal obligation, regulators, not a ministry or someone else, which is, say, a radio evaluation, the cost of benefits of installing divisors or similar devices. In this case, it is an assessment, i.e. cost and profit analysis, of the introduction of smart numbers and smart grids. This is the first step towards the ministry's decision, in which smart numbers will be implemented in the future in Croatia. This document is a legal obligation for HERA to make it available to the ministry, based on which the ministry will decide. I'm also sorry about the price we're talking about here. However, it is the prices achieved in the study. This is all just an unusual document and everything but a routine document. Because the order of the size of the investment that we are talking about here, which should be carried out somewhere between 4 and 11 years ago, as we had varied options, is difficult on the Croatian market, 2.5 billion kuna. So the moment Croatia decides how to implement the next generation of smart numbers and it is necessary when green energy enters deeper into everyday life, it will have to decide how and how these money will be spent, how it will be collected, what equipment will be built on. Something that is difficult 2.5 billion kuna can bring home industry down compared to those that today produce electricity numbers, can give it, give it a chance to develop, can decide a thousand things. So it's a very, very sensitive matter. And we felt on the one hand that there was a need to conduct a study on a topic that did not have much knowledge and experience in Croatia. So we gave that study. Our Academy looked at her, too. So definitely the price was, I'm sorry, we thought the thing was important enough to... [[Adversity President: Please, time is up.]] Everything else, I apologize, everything else... [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51571	No, we don't have time, representatives of the state of time, and I'm asking you to stick to the time. We now move on to the club representatives and is the first respected Slaven Dobrović on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51572	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I welcome Mr. Jurekovic and the parliamentary representatives and MPs. HERA's 2016 report, in general, this issue would indeed deserve a much better term because it is something that concerns all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, they probably don't know the extent to which the good or bad work of HERA concerns them and what serious consequences it has on all citizens. And that is why the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is in the view that this report is not a problem in the report and report but is a problem in the work of HERA, not only for the past year but also for all these years. Practically, the energy area has been devastated. Of course, it is not only HERA that is responsible for such a situation, but it is definitely a serious part of its responsibility. I am quite certain that these young citizens today who should be the bearers of the development of the Republic of Croatia, educated, who see how the state pulls them by their noses in various ways. A good part of that impression and the impression and the will to leave the city and the problems of energy. From the fact that someone has imposed an unusual heat collection system on them on speed, over the line, overnight without preparation and to the fact that the system is facing huge financial dues, I am talking about the electrical system because of the poorly planned, or poorly contracted system, or renewable energy sources that absurdize whether they are in the interest of Croatia but not in this way. Of course, there is also a question of regulation of gas networks, i.e. gas distribution, which is probably the least public information. So we're not in favour, we think we should reject the report as it should have been rejected for 2015, or what was rejected, someone said so, so it's actually accepted to know what an unusual formulation is. But here I am going to go through several of the most important points, one of HERA's tasks is to monitor energy markets. So the market is certainly a mechanism that promotes the competitiveness that comes in the interests of consumers, lowers the price. However, it should be done with a grain of salt in its head and if it's done upside down, then it's either someone, I don't know what term to use, so it's either unprepared for it or it's hidden, or it's opening a very strange door. So let's say the heat, do we have the heat market. So you have been mentioning in your report for many years a line in a row and so far there has been no development of competition and significant development of the heat market. It's a perfectly formulated sentence and there's no market at all. So he's gone. Whoever produced it 5 or 10 years ago does it still. In any case, no consumer has the opportunity to change its supplier. So it's just one thing, and what's new? So the new thing is that it is not regulated but it is left to that market, in fact, in other words we have a legal monopoly and the situation that citizens are exposed to unusual prices, that these prices are therefore extremely high and that they can only be unbuttoned from such a thermal system. So something that might be possible because it's about cogeneration, so efficient use of energy, energy sources, energy transformation into useful electrical and useful heat has experienced one of its nakaradas because here I consider your responsibilities as well. It's interesting to see the prices. And here, let's see that heat price, so you mention in the report the average price of electricity and gas, but of course not to mention the average price of kilowatt hour heat energy value heat value because maybe it shouldn't be mentioned, it will regulate the market, but the markets are gone. So a very unusual situation, the consequence is that in many places citizens are simply exposed to extremely high heating costs, and if you can look at it or study it, and you probably know that the price of kilowatt hours of heat energy is even higher than kilowatt hours of electricity. It is interesting to see how you regulate the price, let's say, there was already talk about the distribution margins, so it's unclear how you mentioned to one great distributor that Zagreb gasman in 2015 a total of 96 million kunas, so you raised there by 26% and dropped 41% by 41% with our information on their initiative. And now we can ask ourselves how is it that you have this role as regulators and that you make such terrible mistakes because obviously consumers in this area could have used gas significantly cheaper than that distributor. The privilege award is also your task and HERA has issued hundreds of solutions on priority and many who have received such a solution or received a privilege have not built the facility at all. And it is known that an extension of the benefit can be allowed if they have a built half of the investments so that they can continue to maintain that status, however, the preferential price means that it is guaranteed the price of the purchase that is not percentage higher than for factors greater than two, three, three and a half, four times the market value. So here I have an example of Energana in Fužine where the company went bankrupt without practically starting anything on the ground and that drive has experienced an unusual sequence of events, which is why citizens can get to know each other more closely. We have Benkovac and the Parish of two biomass projects where it's also sold to foreigners, of course with the previous extension of this privilege. That extension here I think someone mentioned the figure for the fifteen-year period means 1.2 billion kuna, so it's not small money. There's a lot of it, we're not going to mention now the contracts that were issued on Silvestrov very valuable in the long term, because they're being signed for a long period of years, for all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they mean measures in billions of kuna. So it was certainly possible to monitor the change in the market, the fact that the technology of the vertro power plant is experiencing its renaissance in the world, that prices are going down and that the mathematics of the return on investment is significantly changing and that any state that cares about the interests of its citizens would do a calculation and say no, we can't do that anymore, we need to reduce it and it has to be done spotlessly. That's how national institutions do it that really care about the public interest. What's next? You also protect consumers, however, on many questions where you are asked to think or to point to illogicalities you easily respond with dissuasion from jurisdiction, so for a moment you are not in charge of a particular problem. The best example of HERA's or your understanding of jurisdiction is the problem of installing the criteria. So you put in your plans paragraphs of the Energy Efficiency Act that and that number of NNs that entered into force on 6 November 2014 are the relevant additional obligations of HERA. HERA will monitor the obligations of energy distributors to ensure that, to the extent technically possible, individual numbers at competitive prices which accurately reflect the actual energy consumption of end-users maintained real energy consumption are supplied to the extent that this is financially justified and proportionate in view of potential energy savings to end-users. We know exactly what happened to the so-called. heat divisors, i.e. a physically correct and confirmed system for the distribution of supplied heat in the common consumption system, however, the way in which this was carried out is a later discussion in which you held sides as here's an unsatisfactory body is indeed unusual. So-called cost-benefit studies that read here that you need to conduct and they cost the office half a million kuna, however, that you can't even discuss what this study brings, so you can't pass it on to the legislator in summary, to communicate it with citizens it's really unusual. So in addition to the study you're paying, you're paying your opinion on the study, so for gas, it's only for these heatheads or the heat energy criteria that the variant is more physical, so it's really measuring, and it's not calculating, so the distribution of the most likely heat delivered. You haven't done any cost-effectiveness studies here. So I wouldn't want to be any longer. It's late. There may be something you can hear about this. Definitely a situation in energy is bad, there is a serious responsibility for you. I believe that you did not justify the name independent professional regulator which is legally required to work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. So very little or none of it, therefore to the harm of the citizens, so also to the benefit of individuals. I hope that the investigating bodies, so the institutions in charge, will work on that because I wouldn't want to make assumptions here, for instance. Here's why I'm repeating we're not accepting this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51573	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51574	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 34(2) has been injured: ‘In the event of the absence of the President of the Parliament or of the obstacle in the conduct of the presidency, he shall be replaced by one of the vice-presidents of the parliamentary majority appointed by the President of the Parliament. If the President of the Parliament does not determine, because he cannot determine the vice-president's duties as president, he is acting as vice-president from the ranks of parliamentary majority MPs," means the present Mr. Reiner or Mr. Brkic. And here it is visible how important this topic is that even the vice president and how many people are exhausted the HERA regulatory agency, that even the President of the Parliament can't hold a session, and the vice president of the majority we don't have to replace it. So at one point President for five, six minutes your chair was empty, there was no president, which means the Rules of Procedure was violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51575	Okay, I'll give myself a warning. I had to go where every one of us has to go sometimes, and since there's no vice president, and I'm sorry there's no club president, maybe he'd jump in and then he'd help. But since he's been gone all day then he couldn't help himself. I apologize to the MPs for being here for those few minutes. [[I could have asked for a break. I'd ask for a break to make it easier for you.]] Thank you very much. But I think that, that... Comrade Bulj, I beg you not to make a circus out of this now because the delay is hour and I didn't go for no reason here if that's enough to explain. I hope so. We're moving on to replicas. We've got the first one. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51576	Thank you, Your Honor. Col. Dobrovic, I have not heard Mr. Jurekovic exhibit here, so he refuses to say, each year avoids stating the average price of heat. So, do you know Mr. Jurekovic how much a kilowatt of heat has passed? You've been running HERA for years, and you should know the average heating price. Don't just tell me that the price determines the heat market because we found here that the markets don't exist, and the price of heat is so much that you don't want to say it because it's higher than the average electricity price and several times the average gas price. So you don't define and monitor anything for heat, and you keep the price in your report. He gave his colleague Sladoljev, I think he set an example of the City gas station Zagreb, which ended in 2014 with a total profit of 43 million kuna, and HERA went into an extraordinary audit in early 2015 and increased the distribution margin by 26%. The city gas station Zagreb itself asked HERA to cut the same margin, so HERA reduced the margin by 41.5% in December 2015 and the City Gasman Zagreb ended in 2015 with a total net profit of 96 million kuna. How much profit she would have had if she hadn't asked HERA to cut the distribution margin on her own. Thus, it totalled nearly 100 million kuna net profits in 2015 in which HERA was doing 2 extraordinary business audits and changing the margin from 26% to -41.5%. The question of what's the regulator for when it can be wrong to set tariffs by more than 40%? What are you doing, sir? And he says a colleague here from the HNS needs to support your report. This report should be rejected and anyone who does not reject it protects the crime that is happening in HERA and Croatian energy. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51577	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51578	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You started with heat. Yes, in the EU accession process, we should give up regulation, full regulation of the market and move on to a market economy, i.e. create a market. However, as far as heat is concerned, it is not created because it cannot be created in such an artificial way. However, what was created was created by El'Dorado or a legalized monopoly. And that's why we have a really unusual situation that heat has become more expensive than electricity, or gas energy that's absurd. Absurd and obviously it should be clear to everyone that we must return to regulation immediately until a system is established in a technical sense that will enable this market, i.e. market competition, hence alternative heat producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51579	Second replica, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51580	Col. Dobrovic, so HERA controls the market, we see that there is a monopoly on heat, so I don't know what they're monitoring, determines the prices of gas distribution, public services. They don't know the price at all, so let them say what the price is. The issue of benefits to renewable electricity sources and means and favourably means electricity that is three times more expensive than the price spent, it is really interesting to whom all these incentives were assigned on a Sylvester night, mainly for the wind, because also very well for the former directors and firms, former directors of HEP and assistant ministers of Vrdoljak, closely bound and these companies. Well, we do. They protect consumers. Yes, it protects consumers to pay more without consumers knowing anything. This is an eclectic example of how to do with what Croatia is rich in resources and energy to the consumer. 20 million, 22 million kuna means it stands out to an agency that works against citizens' interests. Let's make that clear to everyone. You only share subsidies, so incentives, so for Sylvester's sake, you opened two minutes before the new year. You didn't give our citizens conditions for solar power plants. They gave it a very simple incentive, i.e. the aid to renewables to wind power plants that are foreign investors, and of course the former HEP directors and their projects sold to HERA also kept silent. Everything she's meant to do against them. All this is a crime against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and a robbery of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51581	You haven't answered, have you? Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51582	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bully, it's true that there's a riot practically in every segment. If we look at only how the distribution margins for gas are determined, then we see that some companies are able to acquire a pretty large profit or profit with which they may be able to master a better quality market, so while some smaller ones are pulverized. I can't argue that it's specifically intended for some particular purpose in this respect, but I think an analysis of the behavior or determination of these margins can show quite unusual things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51583	Third replica of my colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51584	Thank you, dear colleague Dobrovic. One question that is being imposed here and your work within the HDZ-Government coalition, so I would say that Minister Panenic before you has marked quite a heated conflict with HERA, so that year and a half of the time there have been objections, your advisors have said a lot, you've sent letters, you've objected to some of their decisions or not making any decisions, but nothing has been done. So the very simple question is why this problem hasn't been solved in a year and a half and how long it takes for you to get rid of everything you've been complaining about so far. On the other hand, some people say that you, as Minister or Minister Panenic, failed to reconcile the price of renewable energy in the period when you were in position, and that is why there is now a higher price increase than it should have been. So this also confuses Croatian citizens because now we are all witnessing that electricity will collect an average of 10% per household but also the arguments of people in that industry saying that you had an obligation in 4 years to reconcile the price of renewable energy sources and you did not do so and that by accumulation of certain funds it is now more than it should be done, say, a year ago when it would be a deadline. So these are some questions that people are also interested in, so please, if you can answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51585	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51586	Thank you very much. Dear Maras, therefore, it is true that we did not agree on HERA, i.e. we wanted to implement a clear reform of that sector, which means that the riot accumulated in the energy sector had to be cleaned up in such a way institutionally in a way that people who do not have a problem with the real work in the public ministry, in this important portfolio, were to be done simply by public competition or in any way. Because in Croatia there are many experts working both outside and present, who are able to lead the sovereign energy policy of the Republic of Croatia. As for the compensation for renewable sources, the second part of your question, we have found a situation where there has already been a serious threat to the energy sector, so electricity markets because they have exploded, quantities have exploded, amounts of energy from renewable energy sources at preferential prices. These quotas have long been cracked, clear and should now bring a new policy that no longer needs incentives, prices have fallen and citizens are involved, we have had several projects, so citizens, electricity producers and others that we have prepared and which represent a healthy implementation, the use of renewable energy sources. Because the future of energy is renewable energy sources. But what we have today is unfortunately nakarada and now is the chance to make it right. So by refusing this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51587	The fourth replica of a esteemed colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51588	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Dobrović, therefore one of HERA's tasks is certainly consumer protection. protecting citizens to get the right price and amount of energy on the market. You have well stated the Energy Efficiency Act, which states that HERA will exercise control over energy distributors' obligations to ensure that individual numbers at competitive prices which accurately reflect real energy consumption, etc. are provided to final customers of energy distributors in households. So to go back to the heat dividers and the heat system, the study wasn't done, it led to the fact that other than the citizens paying too high the price of thermal energy they had and they had a significant cost of installing the divisors themselves, and then instead of saving with those divisors they got even higher bills. This can be justified partly because of the very state of the buildings, the building systems either because of the inability to balance these thermal systems, or for some other reason. However, it is no excuse that it is not the rules of a cost-effectiveness study, so it would be interesting to see when a line is drawn and then a key question arises whether the study has not been done because the citizens are deceived into being framed to say so, to invest in the divisors that will lead them to ensure that they pay for more expensive energy or simply knew in advance that this study will show that it is not a good move. In other words, nothing useful has been obtained, and much damage to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51589	Replication response. But please answer it, yes, excuse me, but don't lift it like this, just a little bit. Your colleagues from the club insist on implementing the Rules of Procedure very strictly, so please raise the tiles then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51590	Dear colleague Sagar, it's true. So that sentence is very nice and it would be good to have a work behind it that justifies... but it repeats nothing happens. Heat energy is a complex system, significantly more complex and technically demanding than the electricity system. Therefore, it has to be done by then and by then, without adequate preparation, without previous analysis, without the preparation of the market that these divisions may be cheaper or God forbid to produce any of that in Croatia, it did not happen. It happened vice versa, they collected, so the citizens paid too much for that building material, and the effect was achieved somewhere, nowhere to be achieved. It was therefore necessary to include, or certainly, technical preparation of substations, to include buildings or facilities to create other technical procedures, etc. Therefore, all of this again points to the conclusion that the work is not good or that it should be significantly better and that Croatia as a Mediterranean country that could experience its blooming energy deserves significantly better. Here are no more important to me than the people whose strategy is to give experts and let's make Croatia a prosperous country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51591	Thank you. The last replica of the esteemed co-worker, Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51592	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a short, few things that my colleague Dobrović can explain to me in his presentation. As far as the heat and heat sector is concerned, that is to say, the whole discussion about the market has not been liberalised, my question is why or what steps and why you did not do so in your mandate, the more we know that at least I am speaking now, I am from Osijek and there HEP Toplinisation supplies heat energy as together and as with Zagreb, Sisko, Gorica, Samobor and Zaprešić while other cities of Rijeka, Brod, Karlovac, Vukovar are other suppliers. Let's say HEP Heat hasn't changed from this report is visible its price for last year, but at least in Osijek what I know does with loss, so it produces heat with loss. We know that you have just stopped the construction of the new TE heat plant cogeneration plant in Osijek, which, apart from the biggest investment in the history of the city of Osijek, would bring this very industrial pair and the new more efficient thermal energy, there is, of course, a question and distribution, so I just want to know what moved and what was not made for the year and a half of the liberalisation of exactly the thermal energy that was the problems. And it's actually incomprehensible to me, my colleague Grumoja said that he was incomprehensible that we would accept this report as well as a number of others, regardless of what was in our mandate, and yet I still find it incomprehensible that the minister would not accept the reports, and perhaps even responsibility for what was in his mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51593	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51594	... my colleague, the heat energy I repeat is a much more complex segment and it was certainly unserious to engage in so-called. the creation of a market, but not really but a fictitious creation of a market, therefore, with these technical assumptions. Who can bring warmth? So there must be a new heat manufacturer and it must be attached to some remote heating system. Therefore, all of this requires serious technical assumptions so that, in the second round, they would then start to create a market or deregulation of the price of that heat energy. So it's clear as day, and I think it can be clear to you that in your five, six months of ministry as Minister of Environment and Energy, because in my first term, I didn't deal with energy, we started a lot. However, definitely the scissors were not, the sukma may have been on the table, but without the scissors and that is also the reason one of the reasons is a structural systemic discrepancies with the partners at the time and there has been dissociation. However, I now insist on what can be done, come on, because there is now a consensus on everything, including energy. And here, there are serious problems ahead of us, there are serious failures, so we'll see what we can do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51595	Thank you. Now you should talk to the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, respected colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, but since he is not there, he loses his right to speak. So it's the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored counterpart Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51596	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Jurekovic, colleagues and colleagues. 15 minutes ago, after hours and a half of time spent and a vain debate about the fact that it's an exercise, how it comes and who spends it, we missed the whole discussion, so then, the colleagues... In seven minutes, I hope that colleagues who don't have a clue about the executive system and the FINA have learned at least a little bit about how to get to the top, who implicates it, and who's FINA in that whole story and spends it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now I listen to all these discussions about Croatian energy and I exchange SMSs with colleagues who have been in energy for a long time, and I have to admit that people who are at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Shipbuilding today can't believe that this is the way the debate is being held in the Croatian Parliament. We have no fundamental knowledge here, which is regulated activity, which is market activity and what is the role of HERA. HERA is not an element of the energy system as economic operators, HERA is a regulator. HERA has a law and a legal basis. To say that the report is incomplete, to say that the report is declassified, to say that this report has no head and tail, means the unread law and not to read the methodology in which the report is submitted. The Energy Regulatory Act accurately states this. And by reading this in the last 5, 6 days, I am sure that HERA is in line with the Energy Regulatory Act of its annual report, which must contain information on the activities and results achieved in the business of HERA, the results of monitoring, the implementation of energy operators' obligations under the Energy Activity Regulation, the Energy Law and other laws governing the concept of energy markets, energy sector analysis, observations and anomalies in that market area. Therefore, it regulates that regulated part, but must identify anomalies in the market area. Therefore, it cannot even stop and can boost market activity. And when we talk here about a more total price of kilowatt hours of electricity, not more than a meter of cubic energy, but a kilowatt of heat or some kind of energy value or caloric value of a cubic meter of natural gas, then the storage component is a regulated activity, transport component, regulated activity, distribution component, regulated activity. And what's in that whole market story? Production and supply. If we had at least a little sense of what it means to be a business, a real business sector, then we would, I'm sure, know how the final price of kilowatt hour, energy, that gets or buys with guaranteed quality, is formed 24 hours a day by the final customer. Therefore, only in that part of the supply margin, the authorised buyer and today our customers are privileged customers and all our consumers category households, therefore, can negotiate with the supplier the final price and electricity and heat, i.e. gas supply prices. I can negotiate. Sit at the table and in that segment I'd say deviating the supply network can either persuade or force the supplier or any other way to force that price to be the way it suits him. And then we come into segments, here potential heat stories. You know why there's no heat market? Because the heat loss is over 20%. Because the losses of all those who are part of the heating system are so enormous that the ownership structure of these heats has changed, for the simple reason that there was no profit. And then what happens to you? What happens to you is that after a long, long time, you get a law that provides both production and production and transmission and distribution and supply of thermal energy, and it is normal that there is no playable market because there is no private supplier in that segment that sees profit. Therefore, I return to the term and to the terminology of what is regulated, the transfer tariff and the distribution tariff is regulated and that is the price element that transmission system operators and distribution system operators must reinvest in the network. We had about a year ago a young secretary of state who, after 2.3 coffee, realized how he could resist the strange insinuations of a 25% increase in gas prices. You know what he did? I hope you know what he did. He put it on the table and revised the plans of distributors and transmission system operators. And you know what he found? That the tariff of transfer and distribution includes so much margin and is not spent on building an attitude and we, instead of thanking such managers who run state firms, we keep them in those positions and today. So, HERA has approved an investment plan, 5 and 10 years, these plans are not respected, the system has not been upgraded, the tariff has not been invested and the tariff has been collected. It's a handicap and there's a rabbit in that bush. That's why the 20% losses. We're going back to another story, let's say the losses in the transmission system are 7%, of which the report says almost 50% of the technical losses, evidence that the system was being built, that it was being maintained, that it was being invested. If not, the losses would be 12, 13% and the losses would be over 50% of the technical character. The second thing was the effect of billing and invoices issued to our customers. And now I have to admit that listening to all these discussions, and I'm following them at this time, I'm not going to apostrophe and I'm not going to repeat the sentences in the report. In each of the components, both in the electricity segment and in the natural gas segment and in the manufacturing and processing segment of oil and oil derivatives, and in the heat segment and primarily in the renewable segment, this report identifies problems. And don't expect HERA to solve them. In the Energy Regulatory Act, these problems do not solve HERA, as public procurement does not solve audits, as neither the performance nor the problem of the performance solves FINA. So, we've been wandering around here all the time, we've gone into some weird maze and we've been discussing it completely deplaced and the people to whom it's a profession, the people who watch our debate wonders and admires our ignorance. Yes, the certification of the transmission system operator in the electricity segment. She started and ended in three years. ... started in 2011, finished 2014. 2015, 2016, 2017 was certified under the auspices of the European Commission. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the gas transmission system started in 2003, the certificates are not even available today, but we don't wonder why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the HERA report, this was apostrophyd and stated. A few days ago in a similar debate concerning the 2015 report, I received several messages as to why I was not paying attention because I reportedly said, and I listened to my speech and did not say, but I turned my attention and now I am distracting it, Croatia has an electricity market. Croatia has a component of responsibility that is allocated to the stock exchange and at the same time is productively acting by CROATs and now we are wondering if there is a muscle plantation, whose ingenuity and according to which law some lex specialis, the authority on certain things has CROTs and CROPEX, the electricity exchange. They invested people in the biofuel production system. Based on the European methodology, we have established subsidies for them because this production is not market-based. People invested, started producing, we created a commitment to blending bio diesel into diesel and bioethanol into gasoline. That story lasted three years, we shut down all the subsidies, and all three biofuel manufacturers went down. It's a Croatian reality. What's important and what's clear in fat letters is in HERA's report. The electricity prices did not change in 2016. So, those catastrophic announcements that at one point we're all going to go bankrupt, and that's why the price of electricity rises, and that's why the price of gas rises, we're talking about percentage amounts of over 30%, eventually what happened? I'd like to share in these replicas now those facts we talked about about about six months ago. Nothing happened. And now I'm only going back to two short sentences to the system of renewables. Very easy and simple verifiable figures. We had an account or sub-account of HROTE, which is not part of the state budget, which is an extra budget account or fund, ended in half of 2011, and there were 300 million kunas in that account. Then we had a balanced system and a scale. Neither was the revenue too large nor was the subsidy's expenditure too great. By the time we forgot one side of the scale. We included an increasing number in the system. And it's not that much of a problem if it's wind power or solar systems or any other kind of renewables, the problem is that there's been a imbalance between expenditures from that fund and income in that fund. If tariffs were to be reduced then there would be no problem with new systems but there would be problems in some other segments, because each country should also take care of the balancing system, how stable is basic production and how unstable is renewable sources. And how much regulation in the Republic of Croatia is available to balance this system and how many regulations we need to introduce through cross-border capacities to keep the system stable. And that sentence that is very important here, very important, regardless of what we imported 36% of electricity, 50% of gas, and I don't know how much crude oil in 2016 the energy system of the Republic of Croatia was stable. We didn't have any major outbursts, we didn't have supply disorders, we had constant prices. I hope, too, that we will have a stable energy system in the construction of basic production in 2017 and 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51597	Comrade Horvath, thank you. We have four replicas. He's the first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51598	Here, I'm glad you've been consulting with the experts, and you've run the power system together nicely and neatly, so everything's fine, obviously it hasn't even collected electricity due to the preferential price for wind power plants. It's easy because we're subsidizing her, but who are we subsidizing to? When was the decision taken? And what made the decision? So who, which is why the preferential price, here's what I asked the gentleman here exactly how much PPD was subsidized. As former directors, these are friends of former Vrdoljak Minister, I read it, and I'll read it again, but I won't have time because it's a replica. You know what the problem is? What if those experts had run a neat state, I repeat again, surely I wouldn't be sitting here in Parliament and I wouldn't fight in this way because I wouldn't need it. And about distribution, the way, the infrastructure, that would be to talk and talk about and what it's like... The network. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the people, the citizens, of course, Dalmatia's 100 kuna will now be costing electricity on average for the middle household. 100 kuna due to wind subsidies, Vertro power plants, which are owned by foreigners and people who have their tanning salons, have not entered the quota on the ceremony's silvestrov, means 5 minutes before the new year when the regulator shared those bonuses. If it were right today, the system would be Croatianly decorated. The fact is, there's an enormous crime in energy. If it wasn't for today they'd be white nights in our possession, and INA would be in our possession, they wouldn't have a HEP, which the company in charge went to sell. And numerous other investments that are harmful to the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51599	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51600	Comrade Bull, we agree on a lot of things. I've given you a fact that we can't escape and that you can very easily check out. Some people led to half of 2011 and it worked. The system included 400 megawatts of wind and proportional to that and other forms of renewable sources and was proportionate to the installed power of basic production. What happened after 2011? That should be explained in this House by some other people. But what's the fact in that whole story, there's been a imbalance between what's been made in relation to what's been paid in that account. And we can't get away from it. So today we have a minus of about a billion and 800 million kuna. Well, he can have 16 Ph.D.s, but he can't find a methodology to keep that gap still without anyone paying for it. Well, there's no peppertuum mobile. In the end, all these guppies are paid by Croatian citizens. So these billions and 800 will want it or not because no one else does.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51601	Okay. Second replica, dear colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51602	No, my colleague Horvat, I would agree with most of what you said. You warned the directors of certain energy companies, you said they were a problem, I think your party should rely much more on you than on that team. And on the other hand, I don't agree with you about the role of HERA, so I can't agree with that. What you're telling me here, you're saying you're getting messages, and we're not saying this out of our heads, we're getting ready for this, and we're being prepared by people who understand the situation. And I just don't understand how you're abliing HERA out of responsibility. So for you, she doesn't need anything, nothing is her role, and it makes sense for me to swear that you paid through the energy you spent, it's an average price no matter how much of the component is in the account of regulated or marketable. If HERA could do that for electricity and gas, I don't see why HERA can't do it for heat. And as for the price of electricity, all you said was true. But why the imbalance? Is there any responsibility to HERA or no responsibility? So the current's going to grow because HERA signed those contracts, gave them the consent. And that's why you're right. There's nothing a colleague of Dobrović can do about it. I don't know how many PhDs she can have. But there is a hole that all Croatian citizens pay for. Someone is responsible for this – it is policy responsible, former Minister Vrdoljak is responsible, but the team in HERA is also responsible. And that's a fact. We're out of it. I know you're in a bad position. You probably feel the same way we do. But there are some things you may not be able to say that way. I'd like your party to rely more on you than on those HNS personnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51603	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51604	Comrade Thunderbolt, we might as well discuss here by early morning. I didn't do anything wrong with HERA. I'm just saying that according to the methodology defined by the law, the report is correct and we will support it. What I resent not only HERA but all the stakeholders of the energy sector, and I wrote down a sentence that was said here, and I fully agree with it, regardless of what a colleague of Dobrović at one point jumped out of that context, so the sentence which was excellently elaborated in a bit of a strange way. So he said I didn't want to replicate, but I totally agreed. Energy's devastated, fact. You have 4700 megawatts installed today that can be powered by 50%. You don't have the efficiency of the power system at 4700 megawatts but at level 2200. And when 2200 megawatts are adjusted without regulatory mechanisms and you need to regulate 700 megawatts of unstable renewable sources, then ask colleagues at the dispatch centre in HEP, the national dispatch centre in which they all appear and how they match the consumption diagram and the production diagram and imports to make the system stable. They should be brought here for this pay phone and asked how you guys do it. So, there's a lot we'll agree on. And I said abolize people who were supposed to build a system and we shouldn't, but that whole story was supposed to be humanely resolved long, long before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51605	Third replica, dear colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51606	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvath, the esteemed was your exposure to listen. You'll all agree to the report because it's written in accordance with the law. Well, that's fine. I believe the provisions of the laws that prescribe form, content, form, etc. There's no problem. But here we are talking about Hera's work. Let's say what with sublegal acts that needed to be regulated, let's say, the costs of balancing the system, because renewable energy sources have their own specialities is one uncertainty or surprise and there are costs of balances that are not small. So, there's a lot of leaks. On the other hand, there are many things that have been done in an unusual way. So, your current partners could certainly know why they were raising the wind quota, so past all the studies. So, the basis was not to raise such a strong quota for wind energy. On the other hand, some other forms of renewable energy in Croatia are as unrecognized at all. So, the solarists are terrible... So people don't use them, they're not motivated and we're Mediterranean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about geothermal energy? She's able to replace a lot of boilers that use gas. So you can't allow neither you nor your partners to because the supply route is gas or supply contract or I don't know what to prevent the development of geothermal energy use. At least it can be one pillar, so for thermal energy, that is, the creation of the market and in a healthy, therefore sustainable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51607	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51608	Here's the information that I'm hoping to get here in these two minutes I'll at least partially explain what actually happened in the last year in the heat segment. So basically the price of wholesale and gas retailing, which is almost 95% energy for heat generation, fell by 29%. So when you have a 29% drop in the heat system, and you keep the supply and each other's margin at a level throughout the year, that means that it should be the net profit. That net profit I hope, at this point I don't know, but I hope that all that profit produced by reducing the entry cost, and by maintaining the same supply price has at least absorbed or replaced that loss to the heat plants that they accumulated over the year. So, in the heating system there is no surgical cut at this time because the system is multifunctional from the central ones that are here in the Zagreb area, to those distributed where practically every building has its own boiler room and has its own rules of conduct. On the other hand, I say this story about the system of renewable sources was the methodology by 2011. The moment the quota is increased, the penetration of renewables into the system, the tariff is reduced and the pressure on that cost side is mitigated... The bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this were done in 2011 and 2012, we might have a small loss today, but not a loss at the level of billions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51609	Thank you. And the last replica of a esteemed colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51610	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Comrade Horvat, you said in your debate that nothing happened to the price of electricity, thinking about it, probably that this increase in prices that will be at level 10 and something less than percent is insignificant. I would disagree with you, so it amounts to an average household of 20 and some kunas higher account every month, or 250 kn per year, and it may not mean too much to someone, but a lot of our citizens will definitely feel that increase, and there's something that's happened. On the other hand, you pointed out on behalf of the club of representatives a strong objection to managers, i.e., directors, I trust most of the state-owned companies involved in the transmission and distribution of electricity that chose quotas and did not invest. Let me remind you that the party holding these staff with you in the coalition is now not clear to me here, whether HDZ is seeking the resignation of these people and the replacement of those people in HEP, for example. Either it's your solo performance here, or your opinion, or it's a disagreement between the HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia Club, since here, you said yourself, you're not happy with their work, and they're still sitting there, and the Legion would be very happy to return. He'd be very happy to come back and watch how to get into a combination somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51611	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51612	Comrade Maras, I didn't think we'd be discussing who the people of some technical profession, argued from numbers. I've been having disagreements over some party decisions, so I have to admit, in the last month, I haven't enjoyed it, but here and there I look at the mess that's going on with you. It didn't go to waste, so when I look at the board of directors, every row has its own opinion, and its frontman, who, after that, hides from the cameras, makes comments on the president's decisions. At this point, HDZ has one president, one presidency, one central board, one national council, and decisions are made, perhaps not with a 100% majority. But decisions are made and they're part of our party life. By the way, I have to admit that this play that's going on with you seems nice but I don't like it. In fact, this government has reduced VAT to electricity prices from 25% to 13%. In all these anomalies and increases that don't happen because of the real need for an increase, because the energy price went up. But this increase in electricity prices, the anomalies that were found at the time that this government took over the government's helm are being solved. And what's a fact, you'll remember at one point you've constructed a strange regulation and everything is done today by public tender. For me, a lot of time is wasted and all these companies are going through a public tender and I am sure that the changes in the management of that company will make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51613	Thank you. Next debate The Club of Representatives HNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51614	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Jurekovic, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to return to the topic of the annual report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2016, which gives us a full overview of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, which is made up of HERA itself that operates within the legal framework. As we can see here the very competitiveness of energy services on our market, what is good, when we look at the structure by sectors and as it is stated in the report, that no matter what in 2016, the energy sector was on the bridge side. With one or another minister, perhaps more significant, which this first one is not here, but we will, of course, accept this report and record a lower drop in electricity prices on the retail market compared to 2015. Electricity is on the wholesale market compared to 2016. As for some shares in the last year, the largest of course had hydropower plants, as regards the production of electricity of 55%, and thermal power plants 32 almost, wind power plants... and now wind power plants that are constantly mentioned in other things, the difference is other renewable sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I already mentioned in the replica is the losses that have been said here as satisfactory, so we can trust the words, 7.6% of the total supply of electricity and 50% of those 7.6 is for no technical reasons. So, of course, we can tell him openly that there is a loss due to incorrect numbers, but also the theft of electricity. So there is something certain that could be more addressed and regularity with regard to distributors and suppliers themselves. As far as one part of it is concerned, it would only draw attention here in the report, it is related to the number of complaints made by end-of-life customers to the misleading business of suppliers, so we are aware, not only of last year, but also of the last few years and of the liberalisation of that part of the market and the supply of electricity, a lot of phone calls where poor people are not even aware of what they agree and it is well needed for the public to do so, and I believe that someone is watching or hears that it was implemented by the law on the electricity market and the Law on the protection of consumers against one of the suppliers was initiated and a misdemeanous procedure due to the costs of the termination of the contract, and this is not in accordance with the provisions and general conditions, so they must not be charged by someone who is already knowing, not knowing about the change of the suppliers. As to what we're talking about here all the time, it's said that the government or the ministry, and that has to be said again multiple times, as far as HERA is concerned, is then working within the rules laid down by the government, politics and laws, and we know who makes the laws, we know who proposes them, and if something wasn't right, then it should have been changed by legislation and let's say the rules of the game. Last year, until October 31st, no compensation was adopted under the Law on New Sources and a highly effective cogeneration, so this began to apply. Col. Dobrović said in his... that during the time of Minister Vrdoljak the quotas were increased, I would only ask here what they would be now and where would they be now if they hadn't then not had an increase from 3.5 to 7 but would have had from 0.5 to 7. how much would the VAT have to shrink and then what would they do? And the only decision that was to be made and that had to be made by 31.10 is not, because it was in that direction that something had to be increased. He increased probably because it was necessary and apparently needed and now needed even more, and if he hadn't had a bigger problem. As far as I was concerned, I would once again point out that for the period from April 1st to December 31st 2016, the gas base when I switch now to gas, that the average price of gas was reduced in this... 15%, so absolutely and I mentioned in the replica all the cuts in energy costs. What's important is that we're talking about heat here, so heat is currently working with losses. No market liberalisation that I do not know how much it will not bring anything but an increase in the price of heating, and that is what we must avoid. Energy policy must take care of the availability, security and cheap energy and stability of the system, and this report says that the system for last year has been stable. That's the goal, so safe and cheap energy and everyone available. I'm afraid a policy in which we don't make decisions, at least last year it seemed that way, and clearly here and it says that no decision has been made, and apparently all those objections that went from the ranks of colleagues whose intentions I may not doubt, but in the implementation obviously did not go. They had a chance to do something for a year and a half, but they didn't, that we had to take care of the future for sure. But first of all, as far as heat is concerned, it's not just so easy to solve, at least not as it's said here, is it obvious that they might have solved it or maybe they're not capable? Only one thing that has been mentioned here countless times already, and when we talk about the wind power compensation, I can only talk about publicly available data by the Croatian market energy operator, which is that in 2013, a reduction was made, so once again a reduction in the predicted wind power produced from 1200 to 400MW reduction. But because some investors had already been in the process in order to avoid any damage claims by the end of the year, 31.10. passed regulation for 1.1 next year, so by 31.12. everything had to be regulated, it came to 700MW, and then we're talking about someone I don't know what kind of system, which was done in the term of the former minister and with 21 billion incentives down to 14. These are data, but well that's and less important obviously for some other policies are more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51615	Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51616	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about HERA's 2016 report as well as the 2015 we discussed a few weeks or maybe months ago, I can say that we here will accept this report because we think it's written correctly. Of course, we are not happy with all the situations in the energy market, nor about electricity, in particular we are not happy with the increase in electricity prices, we are not happy with the level of investments that HEP has been carrying out over the past two years. We have seen in this report and that there is a certain loss both in the transmission and distribution of electricity, who told counterpart Curaj that it is satisfactory, it is seven and a few percent. We think, and the plans of HEP are such that for the next ten years, some seven billion should be invested in the transmission system and 10 billion in distribution. When you see the dynamics of the past four, five years then you see that this dynamic is not quite satisfactory, and I have to say, looking at it now, I think it could have been more invested, and given the hep's gains, obviously there were opportunities for that. And on that side, they can agree that a certain gap has been made and they can agree that we need to make an effort in the next period to correct it. As far as the ongoing debate on renewable energy sources is concerned, whether we need them or not, I absolutely think, as well as Mr Dobrović, that this is something that is not only inevitable but also necessary for Croatia and on that side, the only question is what will be invested in. And I can say that when you look at how much power is installed in certain segments of renewable energy sources that are above the average wind power plants or wind, I will also say that the idea and the project that Mr. Curaj says is unfortunately drawn up by strategies, ideas, projects already ten years ago and unfortunately there are already driving things in the tracks for the last five, six years and only this correction that my colleague Curaj said was made to the lower, not more in the government in 2011.-2015. Of course, there's always a debate about who invested, but look at who developed them then you'll find a lot of famous names that worked in HEP in 2000 during Ivo Sanader, etc., so I want the citizens to be aware that these projects are designed to be realized and, unfortunately, they're realised and they're in some way realised by those who imagined them during the year 2000. As far as renewable energy sources are concerned, it is often seen as a cost, exclusively as a cost, and it is dominated by the discussions of colleagues of Bulja who have already branded in the area and often debated there, but would recommend that he look at the reports page 83 and look at the most developed countries and share of electricity prices and taxes and fees, and most often it is also about fees for renewable energy sources in Denmark, and then he will see that unfortunately in Croatia the cost of the basic energy price at a level which is higher, for example, than in one where the price is final for the consumer is the highest for example in Denmark, but the basic price is higher in Croatia, and that all of these incentives, support and benefits are higher in Denmark because people invest in renewable energy sources and thus get more competitive producers and afterwards have a cheaper price, and that they do not talk about basic energy, and that they do not have a whole amount of resources. So there shouldn't be some special innovator, you just have to show, look at countries like Denmark, Germany, Belgium, Ireland, Austria, and you'll see that it doesn't always have to be evil if it invests in something because it can be returned to ten other sides. So these billions of kunas you mention can ultimately be useful for Croatia if they invest wisely. I agree with you that it may have been better for Croatia to invest in solar plants or solar energy, to try to capture as many people as possible, to disperse it, but I say those strategies, those decisions were made ten years ago, entered into this, and it was very difficult to change these things in walking. Now we are where we are, as regards stability we can also see that this system that we have in Croatia relatively stable, although according to the report the number of interruptions last year was twice as high as in 2015, but still better than some years before and on that side of course we can be satisfied. We will support the report, we will not enter into technical discussions that have often marked and communicated the councils with the Croatian Assembly and with the ministry especially when Mr Dobrović was there, there it all came down to whether the rule was two days earlier or two days later. But basically if it points to a problem, and it doesn't get rid of it then I think the problem is even bigger than it was. So when we point out that something needs to be changed then it should be done, not for a year, without doing almost nothing but bad energy, bad communication between regulators and government, as was the case when it was between Minister Dobrovic and gentlemen at HERA. Here, the SDP club will support the report for the year 2016 of HERA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51617	We're moving on to an individual debate now. The first is Honorable Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51618	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is what we were saying, and Mr Horvat has even analyzed this on the expert side, so I am sorry that he is not in the system, and there is no Parliament that speaks these important facts but in the system and I am sorry that it remains in the hands of those who are in the Croatian People's Party who are... in fact who are allowed in this way to destroy this energy potential and the system of the Republic of Croatia, and we know this as well as we know how it went in the way. HERA serves here so I don't know how to monitor the market, there's nothing to monitor if we don't have competition in the heat market that's a fact. You said earlier in the debate that there was a problem, that there are problems numerous is sure that in energy it would be much better if we created a solar mini-power plant of five megawatts or 200000 or that only for money that was subsidized for wind power plants, for foreigners assigned to foreigners and money to draw us out, meaning a billion and a half kuna a year, we give foreigners that money was invested in private houses, in apartments, so even the Parliament could be, if it didn't already have a solar mini power plant, so we could solve these problems, to use our sun, mainly in Dalmatia. Today, however, we have been brought in to even how much energy the lobby has been short-circuited, that even thermoelectric power plants are being built on the largest source, i.e. The largest pool of drinking water on the river Cetina, regardless of what it will pollute that strategic resource. But he'll make her. For what? Because the gas is subsidized, because it's... The Peru combined power plant and it will, of course, receive subsidies because of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will be 500 megawatts, in a way that will be a 100m chimney, that there will be 700kg of exhaust gas in a pure oasis, that Cetina will be heated with 3 degrees higher, 8 degrees higher, that will be over 30 degrees in summer. The fact that it's going to destroy the largest drinking water pool for central Dalmatia, that's a minor problem. It's important that we subsidize the gas. When you see in this all in... So market surveillance, I said, determines the price that's the price, let her say how she determines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It issues privileged, renewable power sources and sees the fulfilment of conditions for a more favourable electricity price. Now here is the question of all the questions, to whom these powers have been given, that privileged, that, and most of all, it's interesting, that HERA has issued hundreds of solutions to privilege. Many who received the privilege did not build any facility, and then HERA proposed a privilege without satisfying the conditions that they could have a built half of the investment to be further privileged, received from citizens 3.5 a higher price for electricity production. This is a question for you, sir. So HERA extended its advantage to the power plants in Fužine, and the company went bankrupt that week, without anyone sticking one shovel into the ground, let alone fenced some kind of facility. Another example is even more interesting, HERA extended its privilege in 2016, for the 2 projects were mass, which did not begin today, Benkovac and Županja, but were naturally sold to foreigners, in order to be able to sell, and HERINO's extension of the privilege had to be obtained. These 2 projects are the power of 10 megawatts and mean 80 million kunas of annual incentives that must be paid off. And so for 15 years, which means 1.2 billion kuna. Both companies, I repeat, are sorry that there is no president here, uh, from the CNS, owned by Tomislav Radus, Vrdovic's assistant and right-hand man. If they didn't, they went out in the field, so if we didn't go out on the ground, check out at least half the investment built, you could only read in the media that the land was being released without companies meeting the conditions for served privileges. HERA extended its privileges to Radishe's firm in Županje in January 2016, and the Voice of Slavonia publishes a picture of an empty plot. So for the charge of building amounts over billions of kuna in the coming decade, HERA doesn't care what breaks the law and what citizens will have more electricity than someone else's charge, all that matters is that HERA signed it, and dear citizens, you will pay it more expensively. How much more privileged she had leading to a company owned by former HEP directors, to the HNS party champions, to HDZ members, to various tycoons, to a criminal mile. How many of those HREA has come to meet and who want this report to pass and that nothing is happening, so it is now a report that is normal, a very important report for our citizens, but now you see what hour we are discussing and of course there is no TV transmission. The most privileged were issued in December 2015 by the famous HERA... solutions, only the first gas company issued 3 solutions, for a total of 12 megawatts, which annually amounts to about 115 million kuna incentives, and in 15 years, even 1.7 billion kunas, which will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to pay off, and the citizens paid the price of electricity, but we know that the Peljeski bridge 2 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's how much you've given on that New Year's candlelight night, while citizens, I have an example in Sinj Man, can't get any more, he's 10 years old, for his mini solar power plant, he can't get, so he can't get into the quota. This, these power plants I was talking about last report, I don't even need to talk anymore. This topic could be spoken of far and wide there are still a lot of irregularities. I could say it, and I could say it in the final word, but now I'm going to say, the fact that your statement immediately, rather than being replaced by the Ministers of the Mosts, replaced by the new Mr. Jurekovic, at the 6th Leader's Conference, three months ago, was sent to the new HDZ Minister, Environment and Energy Protection, Tomislav Čorić, all excited, because you got rid of yourself finally, Mosta and you're back in the path of energy in HNS, you're doing your best, there's going straight, there's your plows standing, you've said, I'm going to quote, not to be patient, and not to spend time looking for the guilty, and to turn to the future. On the contrary, the Bridge has asked for exactly the opposite, to change personnel, mainly the HNS, by energy, businesses and institutions. Of course he kept part of the HDZ and the Bridge didn't match them. So we can even, I'm sorry that he doesn't preside over the names he's now talking about the way he is and why the Bridge wasn't responding to HDZ. I hope, therefore, that Croatian citizens who pay 22 million kuna, an agency that works against Croatian citizens' interests, that this Parliament, on behalf of these citizens, cannot support what counterpart Maras said earlier, would support this report. He can't support it. Crime and guessing must not be supported. It can be supported when a man has no knowledge of ignorance, and this is a sin against the people of this House. The sin of the people will no longer be forgiven. ... Mr. Jurekovic, two-by-two, hitting foreign investors and your pals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And MOST and I personally wouldn't support it at the price I don't know what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51619	We have two replicas. The first is a respected colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51620	Your Honor. Dear fellow Bully, for these individual cases that you have brought forth here, specific names are listed by men who are the right hand of former Minister of the Vrdoljak. We had the opportunity to see that a fellow HNS representative Curaj defended it, you made concrete proposals, i.e. concrete examples. And what saddens me is that my colleague Maras is defending something that should not be defended, which is not his responsibility although it is the Government of Zoran Milanovic would be, so it would be the right move of the SDP now that those HNSs who did what they did went to HDZ to preserve these positions and to continue with this same paved direction that you were talking about, that fellow Maras said what a colleague of Vrdoljak did and what they did with renewable energy sources was not good. It is not good that they favored the companies of their party colleagues and others, it is not good that the electricity is growing to Croatian citizens, it is not good that HERA has done nothing. Because Mr. Maras shouldn't be responsible for that, and that's exactly why we won't support this report. I followed Mr. Jurekovic when you said you'd support him, he took a breather because he had protection. He'll be supported by HDZ, HNS, and then you said you'd support him, and now he's calm, he can go back to the way he was. If the SDP wants to change, it wants to correct the support of its coalition partners, not its mistakes, but the mistakes of coalition partners, this is the right opportunity to show that it was not SDP's policy but that it was the HNS policy and that criminal energy octopus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51621	Let's move on. Another replica of a respected colleague, Vučetic. And sorry, sorry, is the answer to the replica, is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51622	Yeah, a colleague just like that. I also expect that fellow Maras speaking on behalf of the club will change his opinion to the vote because it is simply a fact and it is evident that all the subsidies and incentives that are given are being given against the citizens' interests and that, among other things, because of HERA, which bears the most responsibility, our citizens will pay more electricity and because of the whole situation, because of the HNS that Vrdoljak here before the local elections claimed publicly that there is no way that they will go to the coalition solely because of this. And now you will support the report di absolutely, and that Mr. Jurekovic is very well aware of his statements as well. He was happy, they were champagne, they were toasted at the moment when the Most was no longer in power. He celebrates that Vrdoljak's team is here, which is HNS. Well, here's the thing, I'll give you one more piece of information. Here's if Mr. Jurekovic knows, Mr. Grmoya, that's 2017. ... doesn't meet the conditions for privileged electricity? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course he does, but he still pays millions of kunas. And you'll support that? He still pays, and he doesn't meet the conditions. They're picking up money from people's pockets. All MPs here are colleagues Horvat who professionally explained it. It is a pity that HDZ does not use such people within the institutions of HEP and not in Parliament here. We are the ones who hear it from the people and from the experts, and we must convey it, which is not used. It's not a problem in our presentations, the problem is that people have been robbed at our resources, and these are the resources we have energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51623	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51624	Thank you. Col. Bulj, listening to your discussion and debate by his colleagues, Horvat has shown that there is a high degree of similarity, coincidence in facts, facts presented but also differences in conclusions. You also present many strong concepts such as criminal miles, fraud of interest and against the interests of citizens, devastion, robbery. Now I'm wondering if you can tell me what the activities or activities of HERA have led you to use these very terms?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51625	Look, they're in charge of market surveillance, and basically in their report they say exactly like this, that there's been no development of competition, significant development of market heat. It's part of meaning price fixing, absolutely no price, absolute monopoly. I have listed to you the powers of former Minister Vrdoljak of Friends, that in the first gas company of 10 years, they will get as much value as the Pelješki bridge, numerous investments that are essentially impossible to achieve, the shovel is not a problem but they have received the privilege and will receive subsidies. They receive subsidies that citizens pay. So absolutely this HERA costs 22 million kuna a year to our citizens, but it's important that he celebrates. So it's connected by the subsidies themselves. So imagine for a new year five minutes before half a night are allocated, so for renewable energy sources into the quota and there are just great investors like wind power plants, all foreigners and that money goes to foreigners while our people, citizens who have their solars on their houses, have invested, cannot get these incentives. I can't get into that quota at all so I can connect to the network and that I can either sell or buy electricity, that's a guess, that's a crime. It's a coup on the state, on the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And given to foreigners, we encourage renewables to draw money and not to spread it to our citizens, instead of dispersing it to every household, if possible, to a solar power plant, they give it to foreigners. A billion and a half kuna just for the wind. The thermal power plant, what's going to be built on the Peru, you know what the subsidy is going to be? Huge. Maybe Mr. Jurekovic knows, probably, it's already in his system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51626	Thank you. Okay, now let's go to the last individual debate, it's a respected colleague of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51627	Thank you, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that this debate and the representatives of MOST, but also colleagues of Horvat, well colleague Vučetic concluded that practically we have the same views only the conclusions are different, the views are such that energy is devastated, what is certain is that there is a very important role of HERA and that HERA has not fulfilled its function and role. Is the report written the way it should be written, that no one disputed, but the fact is that HERA failed to fulfil its function, the fact is that the report from 2015 was also in this House and that at that time the HDZ representatives voted, but then it was probably some kind of phone call and the changed formulation was so more voted on accepting the HERA report than on receiving knowledge. You presented a whole series of examples where HERA gave its privileges and where practically these drives weren't even built, you mentioned this case of Babine Grede, which I also got in the messages of the people who sent me. So, this power plant has never met the conditions of privilege, which means that it must not be paid $1200 for incentive but is still being paid, and today, even after it is here, there is a former minister, asked HERA for an explanation. Last year alone, over 75 million kunas of incentives were paid to the plant, HERA would not have been able to control it if it hadn't been forced by media signs. So you react when you're forced by media inscriptions. So you didn't even perform privileges until these individual cases were discovered. But even after that surveillance you've done, you've done nothing to make sure that the money that was paid for the privilege of returning to HROTE, rather than telling the ministry that this facility is being upgraded. That's a lot of miss. And colleague Maras says your report will support it. This report must not be supported. So she can't support herself, we've set out a series of concrete examples that show that HERA didn't do her job the way she was supposed to do it. Also, what must be emphasized. There are hundreds of contracts that can still be annulled because of the irregularities we are here about, which my colleague Bulj was talking about, and not supporting this crime. If the report falls, HERA must change management and all contracts should be revised. Those who have been naughty, those contracts should be annulled. And what are we gonna do about it? We'll save money for Croatian citizens. With this move, we will save money for Croatian citizens. Comrade Maras, would you like to save some money for the Croatian citizens? If you want, you won't support this report. Dear Mrsic, would you like to save some money for Croatian citizens? If you want, they won't support this report. You SDP colleagues have no reason to protect your former coalition partner, HNS and Ivan Vrdoljak, so this report should be brought down at all costs. So what else is there to point out? Now is the last moment, the last moment to bring down this HERA report, to change management because even today we don't know what's going on, who has all the conditions and who meets the conditions of privilege and the question whether we're going to stop this or allow energy poverty to chase and this little remaining population in the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking you special representatives of the SDP, you have no reason to protect the crime of Ivan Vrdoljak and the HNS crew, you have no reason. Being your coalition partners, you might as well say, you had such an agreement that everyone was in charge of their resources. So you can say that you haven't been involved in the economics and energy portfolio and that it's not your responsibility, but it's time for you to say that and that by making a concrete move, by rejecting this report, you show what you think about such a policy. I expect it from you, and they expect it from you and the Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51628	We have three replicas. The first one's a respected colleague, Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51629	A fellow bush, from everything visible and real state of purchase of electricity prices, we know why, to whom it would please. And all the stories fall into the water. Here we have to surprise me at all a statement, and even expect parts of HDZ, not to support this, the HNS will necessarily support it, it will defend it, it is their territory, it is not the territory of citizens, energy, it is energy exclusively for HNS, and I expect of course to finally move forward, to finally break up what these contracts have to break up, where they do not have to receive a preferential energy price if there is no conditions for producing privileged energy. What's wrong with the people of the profession, let them say and we have to change. In this way where you even... for 40% of the electric energy assessment 40% or no more sense at all, but from this debate it is visible that neither Mr. Jurekovic can defend it, but I am surprised at the clubs that will support this except HNS. I'm not surprised to the CNS, this is their territory they don't give it, they defend it, and of course it's what Vrdoljak has been preparing and guarding for a long time. The HDZ of certain groups within the HDZ kept exclusively for the HNS, of course, and these groups have their own interests. And once again, my colleague Grumoja and you have called this report must not go away because of the well-being of citizens and the protection of energy systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51630	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51631	Well, my colleague Bulj pointed out that HERA was worth signing and extending the agreements on the privilege of renewable energy production. If contracts were to be broken that would burden citizens with billions of kuna for the next 15 to 20 years, if they did not break up, there would be a sure rise in electricity prices. According to the 2016 report, over 1.5 billion kuna were paid by citizens for 9% of electricity consumption in 2016. For this year and next year, it will take double according to the newly signed contracts in HERA CROTE. I think it's time to put an end to choosing new people, of course, that's decided by the majority, but it definitely needs to be changed to this administration, this report needs to be torn down, and those contracts that aren't valid and that haven't been respected, and you yourself have cited a number of examples, concrete examples, and here I have set a concrete example in this presentation and presented concrete evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51632	Second replica of my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51633	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague of the Grmoi. Although this is about the 2016 HERA report, we may remember something that was in the past, because every kuna that was in the economic crisis there in 2011 had been pulled out of public companies before, so it came from HEP later on to collect, either through the fact that no investments were made that were needed and that did not invest in the development of companies and then the system itself. Also, if you remember the add-on to the gas business that still here could come at the collection of the Republic of Croatia and at the end of all these contracts on the privileged purchase of electricity from renewable sources that will eventually come on the charge because if these contracts are signed in a harmful way, so they are not signed transparently, they are not signed with those companies that have met the conditions at some point in time. Finally, to conclude this debate today, what we are constantly saying, is not even the problem with HERA's report, he is what he is, but what we want to say is that HERA is not an independent agency at all. It is a highly political-dependent agency, although this is about professional topics, here politics gives a key point. It is the policy that said that at five to twelve contracts, it is the policy that has set out who will sign and with whom the contracts will be signed. Maybe the CEOs of HERA can't even do anything about it, that doesn't mean it's not his responsibility, but it's politics that determines everything and sometimes it comes at a charge. And in the end, which means charge, charge means more energy for our own or more expensive energy for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51634	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51635	Here's my colleague Bulj's mistake. He doesn't know who I'm talking to or who he's talking to, so he doesn't know who the replica is or who's answering for the word. Nothing, my colleague, you're absolutely right and of course politics dictated everything. It is not by chance that these companies are more privileged or quotas, it is not by chance that it happened just then, it is not by chance that there are people associated with the former economy minister, it is not by chance that HNS claimed and this is what my colleague Bulj was saying here and Ivan Vrdoljak swore he would not go with HDZ, and I was the first to say that HNS would go with HDZ because I knew what interests this was about. There's no value, there's no general good, there's no public interest, there's only private interests that need to be protected, and we started these private interests to end and they knew it. And I was told there was a party in HERA and you mentioned it after our ministers were removed. Ha, of course, when we had a minister who was protecting the general interest, who did not protect private interests, and such a minister did not answer. The minister who's an expert who protects the public interest, he's not answering. He is not responding to that clienteletic click on HNS, which easily crossed over, which went to the vote on the National Coalition list, and then moved on to HDZ to protect its interests. And it doesn't matter what the HNS rating is now, it doesn't matter what happens to that party, it's important to calm down all these personnel, share certain functions, continue with this stalking business, and now we have a situation to approve new incentives and of course it will pay for all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51636	And the last replica, dear colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51637	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. Dear colleague of the Grmoi. Nicely in your presentation, you touched the main features of this report, or the main problems that stand in spite of the form of the report, you ate what was done by ear, that is, the profession, that is, according to the law that defines things about reporting. But things are bad here. There's a lot of records that point to a very bad condition. You also referred to it as a reflection on our society. And it is quite clear that part of the impression with which our young educated people leave Croatia under the impression is here and disgust because there is nothing I can do. I would like to know what you think, Mr. Grmoy, whether the time has come in Croatian politics that people here in the Parliament will vote on their conscience, that they will consider any subject voted on by their conscience, try to hear, assess the validity of the facts and then vote. So to vote past the clientelest and I don't know any party relations, therefore, and indeed in the interest of the people, in the interest of Croatia, the citizens who chose them anyway. It's not really populism here. Here's a chance to put his voice on the line and try to initiate the change, we need a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51638	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51639	Comrade Dobrović, I hope that time has come. This process of disclosure, which means the process in which we were trying to create one decommissioning of this clientelistic system. He causes people nausea. It is not nice to hear about how things work in Croatia. And many young people leave Croatia not because they are hungry, some leave because they are hungry. But most of them leave because they're fed up with this kind of clientelistic policy because they're sick of what's going on in energy because they're sick of what's going on in the Croatian Parliament, because they're sick of watching most of it come here to form a new government. And that all leaves consequences. And besides having to talk about these problems, we have to offer solutions. We need to show that politics can be different and I think we showed it, that you, too, have shown it as a minister in your actions when you haven't looked at your position. I think I showed that, too, when I was here, I became a parliamentary representative in this term when I first signed for Parliament's disbandment. I wasn't looking at my position, but when that shame happened, I signed the first one to disband the Parliament. And these are the moves and messages to young people in Croatia that are worth fighting for. We'll fight still. I know people are full of suitcases and you, Mr. Dobrovic and me, regardless of our best intentions, because people don't trust anyone anymore. But we must show by our actions that there are people who have a general public interest above any private or particular interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51640	Okay. Now we have only one final debate left on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj. Duration five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are colleagues in a small number, and a very important topic. I am sorry and all this has been noted that in the morning this topic concerning only our citizens and what the heavy work of HERA will feel in their wallet. The fact is that the leading ministry MOST was looking for, the minister was overly emphasising it all, former Minister Dobrović that the observed mistakes, anomalies costing Croatian society dearly, that they realized that what was happening in HERA and that they announced the replacement of HERA. However, HDZ was determined to oppose it because it agreed with Vrdoljak to replace us and we warned before the local elections. My colleague Grmoy himself said that Mr. Vrdoljak here was loudly sworn there was no way that we could invent these insubordinations. The fact that he's basically now in the HDZ coalition, you tell him anything Mr. Horvat he'll raise his hand. Just leave him his, his ice. It's no less energy. And that is why today there is Croatian energy where it is. That's why citizens pay subsidies to foreigners. Wind power plants, so now we see thermal power plants subsidising which in Europe are mined because they are neither cost-effective nor economical. The fact is, if the parliament allows this report to pass the HERA report that it is a continuation of the robbery of Croatian citizens, we are looking for solutions. The solutions were made by Mr. Horvat. I hope that he will be loud in HDZ, that he will explain to his club everything you've agreed for us here, hopefully and I'm convinced that what you said can be repeated in his club and that fellow Maras will tell you what he heard here the fact that he'll say it in the SDP. We need to give solutions, break contracts where privileged subsidies are made out of citizens' pockets where there are no conditions for subsidized energy. It's a deal. That's why once again there was a celebration in HERA when the minister of the Most was removed, the celebration. The champagne was opening. The minister was grateful that he was looking for the guilty, looking into the bright future, to continue to do as it has been done so that my Dalmatian Zagora would die out which energy potential has the greatest. Now my friends who do not have kunas, have no organised transport, have no free textbooks in the villages, their roofs are collapsing in schools and the wind power plants are standing, and they will have to get out of their pockets and encourage them to pay instead of the Croatian state strengthening its energy system. No, we're paying foreigners a billion and a half kuna. Solar mini power plants our citizens couldn't get but for the New Year's 5 minutes before the New Year's Eve, it was very effective all signed for wind power plants to former HEP directors, these were their projects that pushed foreigners into their hands. And now this thermal power plant down there that's gonna destroy the entire block end, the subsidies are gonna pay those citizens down there again. Do you have a reaction to that? You don't have a reaction because you're not independent, you're in the chin. You're in the ridge, we have to get out of the ridge. Croatia will isolate us, we will remain empty. Energy is very important, very important. So much encouragement and subsidies to give friends of former Vrdoljak's minister to the gas company, so we could make 17 Peljek bridges. Building schools, jobs, fast road connections, stockings, fast roads, everything is devastated because of your activities but you are beautifully professionally explaining in the suit and Croatian tonnes, young people are leaving. The only reason HNS is in the HDZ coalition is because of this. Because of the energy, the only one. Here's Mr. Horvat, ask if one of the HNS's frames can change? Hardly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51642	Two replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51643	Thank you very much. My friend Bulj, it doesn't make much sense right now to replicate it, but I have to tell you that in the future there will be more debates of a similar type, and then you will cry again and call my last name, but you have no right to do it for a simple reason. You made it possible. You. So you've brought HDZ to power twice,... Wait a minute. [[You can't hear me.]] Wait a minute. If it wasn't, it might be funny to you, but in the SDP there is no Zdravko Maric, no, it probably wouldn't have fallen to the government because of Zdravko Maric. So you've made it possible and with what you've made possible and it's not funny at all, no, it's not funny at all, so you've brought HDZ to power twice, and now you're still calling SDP and you're looking and yelling like SDP to your vote, watch out around HERA will now undo it all and bring it back. Well, I mean, it can be funny like this if people get a little fun and smile before the end of the session but it's not serious. It doesn't mean anything. So it doesn't matter any vote by the SDP about breaking anything in energy, you could have interrupted it, for a year and a half you've had time as a position and as a minister, means both Panenić and Dobrović, and at least you have the right to complain because you're twice HDZ to power and now you ask the SDP, where we are, why we don't prevent something. That really doesn't make sense. I mean, I know you're sorry about that now, but you should've thought about that before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51644	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51645	As much as you're crying for us from MOST, you can't believe it. But the fact is that you in the government where you were minister with your colleague Vrdoljak, you brought Milanovic's Government at the last session of this very subsidy, this very law where the wind and those incentives are just you, but that's a minor problem. It's a minor problem and it's not about HDZ at the moment but about HNS that has more in one HEP plant in Sinj, he's employed... all over the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you know very well, but you can't say, I don't know why, and what, what happens now to you in the government with the Vrdoljak and that session last through these social measures, you got a man through this, subsidies about these former directors who were supposed to sell their HEP projects to foreigners for encouragement, so it happened to you. But you can't support this. Well, we didn't support this the last time we were in government, you know? You know that very well. But don't consider your decisions such a sin, but they destroyed half of Croatia. They've evicted half of Croatia because it's a huge amount of money, your decision that you've raised on the government of subsidies for renewables, will be huge money, here in the next 30 years, will go to the state budget. So you know why you raised your hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51646	And another replica, dear colleague of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51647	Dear colleague Bulj, I think we've been quite clear, concrete, that we've set concrete examples and that this report simply cannot be supported. Whoever he was with in the government doesn't matter what kind of policy was being implemented. I, in my first question, pointed out to Mr Jurekovic that the report of HERA for 2015 when we were part of the ruling coalition, or the ruling majority, we did not accept them, so HDZ was asked to vote again but under the second formulation, to take note. So our policy has continuity, and this continuity is an opposition to this behavior of HERA, to the inaction of HERA and everything HERA has done and thus damaged Croatian citizens. You have a chance to say now what you think about such an energy policy, you have a chance to say what you think about the action of HERA you have a chance to say what you think of Ivan Vrdoljak. And don't miss that chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51648	There's no response to the replica. So we've come to the end of the debate, I'm the one who concludes it, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2016 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2016. The applicant is the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2016 and the report on the achievement of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 80 for, 4 abstentions and 13 against the conclusion proposed by the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51651	Your Honor, I know it's too late, but I know the subject here was much more interesting than the one I bring you. But you have before you the Annual report on the work of probationary offices in the Republic of Croatia. This is the Croatian Government's obligation under Article 2. The law on probation, which must be notified each year by the Croatian Parliament of how this service works. So in the report you have all the data for 2016. Porobation jobs are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. It shall be carried out with a view to the protection of the social community against the perpetrators of a criminal offence, its resociation and reintegration in the community, influencing the risk factors associated with the conduct of criminal offences. Over the past year, the probation service has achieved excellent results in performing probation work. A total of 4147 new items were received at the execution, and 3749 items were completed. The persons involved in the trial have completed a total of 539770 hours of work for the general good, and the number of legal persons in which this work is carried out has increased by 81, so we now have 1137 legal persons in which these jobs are being carried out by our persons in the treatment. So our offices and services cooperate intensively with the police, courts, the State's Attorney's Office to prepare pilot projects for the introduction of electronic surveillance in the Croatian criminal justice system. And that would be what I wanted to tell you besides what you have in front of you. I'm sure you've all studied it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51652	I thank my colleague Martinovic. We have one replica. Dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51653	Here's the secretary of state, when we talk about probation, it's very important, you said the triba report was given every year. We know that during that rehearsal, some of them had a goulash of potatoes, and they snuck good money out of the budget. So do you have any kind of a trial of all the groups in that report of the people that this is about? It means what measures, what judgments. Do you have any kind of a trial of all the gatherings in that report of the people that this is about? So what measures do you think you're going to have because it's the fact that many people who stole millions, and one of them is recognizable, the man himself said he was going to peel potatoes, and he put millions in his pocket. Do you have any exact statistical indicators that criminal acts are about and what they're about, so we know. Because it's probably the one who stole the newspaper at the kiosk would end up in jail or the one that caught him selling his bow on the market, probably, shut it down because he doesn't have a fiscal cash register, and these guys were peeling potatoes for a couple of days, a couple of kilos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51654	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51655	Dear Representative Bulj, all that you ask me you have in the report exactly everything by species everything, but there is no of course the name of the person. That's not our job. So you find that in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51656	Okay. Now we're moving on to the debate. It is the first club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51657	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. In front of us is a comprehensive report on the work of probation service in the Republic of Croatia for 2016. The jobs carried out by the probation service today are indeed of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, as they concern the protection of the social community from the perpetrators of criminal offences as well as assistance to them in their resocialisation and reintegration into society, which is a very difficult task in view of society's attitude towards such persons. The analysis of the work of the probation service since its formation so on here comes up with very valuable data, and the uncontestable fact that from year to year the number of items is significantly increasing, that the items... They also decide that the number of certain hours of work for the general good is significantly increased as well as the number of legal persons in which the work for the general good can be carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, I would like to stress that from the original 81 legal persons at the moment the work for the general good can be carried out in as many as 1137, resulting from the activity of the Probation Office and the identification of the benefits of such an alternative way of executing the prison or fine. With regard to the implementation of probationary tasks in 2016, it should be stressed that the trend in the growth of the number of cases received and solved compared to the previous year indicates that the trial system is well integrated into the judicial system, and that the work for the general good as an alternative to prison sentences or fines is recognised as the possibility of which the convicts themselves and the entire social community benefit. We are witnessing that from year to year, the number of crimes is growing, the number of prison fines being imposed, and thus the need for prison facilities is greater. And because of the generally known financial situation, the construction of new prison systems in some foreseeable future is not possible, so it is this way of executing penalties for yet some minor crimes that are a good way to solve burning problems in the prison system. Performing the work for the common good may be one of the most sound work performed by the Probation Service. However, other tasks carried out by the Probation Service should also not be disregarded, and their role in the preparation of reports for penitentiary offices or prisons, as well as reports for execution judges that are very important when making decisions on parole. She also did not have the role of the Probation Office in overseeing parole in which the police system previously acted. What needs to be pointed out in particular is the active role of the Probation Service related to the National Action Plan on Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2015-2017, where the Probation Service directly worked with 264 drug addicts who had been given a mandatory treatment precautionary, special treatment obligation or continued drug addiction treatment. It should also be noted that during 2016, the Probation Service has been involved in the psychosocial treatment of the removal of violent behaviour, and the trend that has been increasing lately, and this may be one of the recommendations to the Probation Service to further engage in psychosocial treatments in the future in order to eliminate the cause of violent behaviour among the younger population because we are witnessing a significant increase in stadium violence, intervening violence and the high incidence of all other forms of violent behaviour, especially among younger adults. Finally, no less important are financial indicators, which say for 2016 that the funds spent are less than the planned funds indicating proper and rational management of the state budget. Accordingly, I propose that the Parliament accept this report on the work of the Probation Service for 2016 that supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51658	We have a replica of a colleague, Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51659	Thank you. Your Honor, you said that the huge problem is the attitude of society towards the perpetrators of criminal acts and that this results in many difficulties in their resociation. This is not clear to me, in a digestive sense, psychosocial treatments are primarily about finding and opening those potentials in the perpetrators of criminal acts so that they recognize those criminal factors in society and avoid them. It is therefore not possible to make a change to a society that accepts the perpetrators of criminal offences but is primarily an emphasis on the fact that the perpetrator of criminal offences forgets his past, to forget this technology of committing crimes and to be resociated, so that he, as one who is no longer prone to committing criminal acts, is incorporated into society, not to bring about a social change which will then affect the perpetrator of criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51660	Thank you. There's no answer. Well, then let's go to another club, it's SDP's Club of Representatives and the Honorable Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51661	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. As mentioned in the introduction of the trial work itself are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia or to the inclusion of individuals. So sometimes it's done by committing a crime should be replaced for a crime or some offence that has been committed, and sometimes before. So what we can see in this report is that there is a marked increase in trial procedures, so 4100 was in 2016 or several times more than in 2012, even growth was from 1500 to 4000, that is two and a half times more, and now we need to look at the stage in which these trial procedures are, and it is seen that, in principle, the most procedures and cases are related to the court's decision, this is something that my colleague Bulj used to say when the punishment is replaced by work for the general good. There are also, according to the judge's report, some of them, which are based on proposals and decisions made by the State's attorney, and in the end there are a lot of them, and which, after the execution of the sentence itself, are on parole or on special days of proceedings, means with special obligations with conditional leave. So there is a wide range of diapazone and procedures and objects, and they should be seen as not only the resociation of people but also as a measure that replaces certain actions that individuals have understood before themselves... punishments as something with which they can repay debt to society for certain things they have done or believe they should not have done, and, of course, the society or the state considers it so. As far as the service itself is concerned, we support in this part of course not for serious crimes, this is the case mentioned by my colleague Bulj should never be replaced by the work for the general good and the peeling of potatoes when he burns and takes 30 million kunas from the state budget from the position of public office, it is unforgivable and I don't think it can be compensated by any other phenomenon, no matter what the state's attorneys sometimes think that way they can get bigger fish, but according to that logic, people who stray in such positions can always get away with someone else and, in fact, that their misdemeanes. These are special responsibilities, responsible positions and never someone from the minister's position to commit such a crime, as here was a gentleman, a former minister who bought a business building called Cobankovic to peel potatoes, I don't think it should ever be done that way. We can see, though, that now that the gentleman is after the whole procedure, when there has been a pacification of the damage that the state has done, there is also a request for a re-action, etc. He's still trying to I'd say, in a way, get away from that burden he's unfortunately made, because it's not an honor for anyone in Croatia. I told you, someone in the government was robbing the state budget that way. Unfortunately, we're going to follow that for a long time as a state, but I hope it never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51662	And last debate, the Independent List Bridges Club, Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51663	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Maybe after these debates today, this is either a game of symbolic forms or a game of irony of the soul of the world to finish this report tonight, a 2016 trial service. So I won't be long. I'd just like to point out how probation and probation service are directed towards this conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators, criminal acts. This is something that represents the civilization's reach of time that we are in. Because if we repeat the history of surveillance and punishment, in history the focus was solely to punish the body of the prisoners, and therefore those perpetrators of the criminal acts were imprisoned, to prevent them from being citizens of the world. A free man is a man who makes decisions out of the anonymity of his own freedom, from the geography of the world. He doesn't have these restrictions. The prisoner has a completely different geography. It's his geography, his prison geography. He must also narrow down the dimension of his freedom. This probation service is kind of halfway through. It's about the conditioned and supervised freedom of the perpetrator of the crime, but for one noble cause. And this noble goal is exhausted in the probationary service involving social educators, psychologists, lawyers, and all those who can lead to all the elements of society and all the elements of that individual perpetrator of criminal offences resulting in the permanent separation of the perpetrator of the crime. Yes, every one of his actions is an act of return, individual, personal, anonymous and autonomous freedom. This is why the Independent List Bridge Club supports the 2016 trial service report. It supports and welcomes the results seen in this report, from the fact that in 2012-2016 the number tripled to the fact that in 2016, out of 4150 frames, cases 3750 were completed, of which 91% were successful. These 91% successes are something that we must welcome as a society and as representatives of society, and the Independent List Bridge Club will support this report and support all the efforts that the probation service is doing, from working with the perpetrators to the manual that no one seems to have mentioned to me tonight. In 2016, it was made and served as a reminder to those who were directly involved in the probation service, to know which methods and contents to apply in the work with the perpetrators of criminal acts, but also to serve and teaching, to be the starting point, from which the probation service would only develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51664	We have one replica, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51665	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetić, therefore, briefly, you said supervised freedom. What I'm interested in is maybe I haven't read enough of the report, maybe you can help me in that part of it. So it's about controlling freedom. What happens if, in fact, the service doesn't monitor, what should happen? Because as we've seen from the report, more and more legal persons the facility is growing more and more of them appear to be able to carry out this trial process. What if they don't keep that record adequately, if, in fact, I say, they fake that record. There were cases where USKOK worked, so where some people were on probation, and actually they didn't show up at all, they just faked the paperwork. What, in those cases, when a watcher doesn't do it and is it the task of the probation service to oversee the procedure itself? To see if those are the people who are... really there, and shall I say now picturesquely, do they really peel that potato that is given to them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51666	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51667	I'll get back to you as soon as I can. If someone in the probation service system fakes data or doesn't do their job, then there's a much bigger problem than not doing the job, and that's the problem with the intellectual deficit. Because so many people in the probation service are involved that it is not possible to fake the data and that it is not possible to avoid that chain of surveillance and surveillance. And just proof, that it's not possible to avoid the chain of surveillance and misjudge the rules of the probation service are also talking about this data that you've provided, which is that it's not possible to do something like that undetected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-04-0.u51668	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. With this we exhausted today's agenda, tomorrow we continue at 9.30 report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2016. Thank you and good night. Session adjourned at 22.35 p.m. 2016 Probation Service Work Report. The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the home Assembly Working Body. I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2016 Probation Service Report is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 97 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parent council.
