ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25123	Thank you very much. We are looking for a break in current situations on the domestic economic market related to the largest Croatian company.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25124	Okay. Thank you. Do we have any more? Dear Representative Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25125	Dear Vice President, I'm also asking for a 10-minute break to discuss the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25126	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25127	The Honorable Chairman also on behalf of the MOST Club, 10 minutes off on the current economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25128	Thank you. Do we have anyone else? I can't answer for a break. All right, then we'll pick it up at 10.00. It's 9:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. A few sentences and messages about a situation that gets complicated and becomes more dramatic from day to day. And our citizens rightly ask and seek certain answers and what they can say here that the SDP club is aware of the seriousness of the situation and is aware that in some ways, this failure of the privatisation model that HDZ nominated in the 1990s is symbolic. Now he's no longer in the first place or who he owns or whether he stays or leaves, of course he's leaving now, I guess it's clear to everyone, but he remains concerned about the people who work there and remains caring for suppliers and workers who work with suppliers. What I want to say here is very clear when we talk about the law passed on Agrokor, that SDP and SDP Representatives' Club will not allow any kuna debt to fall on our fellow citizens' backs, it is a very important message. Not a single kuna of debt should potentially fall on our fellow citizens' backs. And that's why we're not satisfied with the announcements where the state should take the risk of the company's business. The existing legislation allows certain arrangements for creditors that are already taking place and, if the existing legislation needs to be completed, it should be done, but Croatian citizens must not be burdened that, potentially, in the coming years, the Agreocora debt may fall on their backs. Unfortunately, the HDZ and MOST seem to be not the most important thing, because then if the president of the Most was not focusing on only one person, he would systematically solve problems. The situation we have in Croatia today, and therefore we are looking for answers, means MOST which has filed a complaint against Mr. Todorovic's Board of Agrokor, obviously has information that has taken place. And we ask Mr. Orepic, the minister of police, to report to the Croatian public what crimes took place in the company, or on the other hand, it is about pure populism in order to cloud the situation and to pass a law that could put an additional cost on the back of Croatian citizens. Or another question, I see Mr. Miro Bulj speaking behind me, does Mr. Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia enjoy the trust of the Most? I want to hear it from the representatives of the MOST Club, the party that reported to the Agrokor Administration with whom he worked closely was the first in line and Mr. Marić and who has enjoyed the trust of the Most for a year and a few days. We want here a very clear message from the club of representatives of MOST whether Zdravko Maric has the trust of the Most after which Mr Petrov filed a criminal complaint against the Authority of Agrokor? These are questions that interest Croatian citizens and will move us away from demagogy and pulsism and bring us closer to a concrete solution to the problem. It cannot be trusted by the Most and the Croatian Parliament to have a person who, up until a year and a few days ago, co-operated closely with the administration who is suspected by the Most for criminal offences. And on the other hand, I will say once again, we do not support laws that potentially because of one company of any kind in the Republic of Croatia can put an additional tax burden and cost on the back of Croatian citizens, especially after yesterday's debate when we saw that there was no will to raise minimum wage. So on the one hand, the problem is to raise the minimum wage for several hundred kunas to HDZ and MOST, but it's no problem to take billions of kuna debt on the back of taxpayers. The message of people most important and most needy nothing, those who have the most will remain protected and we do laws for them. That's not good, and that's not how you should behave. We have already seen this from this government and on the tax reform which, along the way, is again done by those who have the most, respectively, Mr. Marić. I will repeat once again that Mr. Bulj does not forget, tell us now, Mr. Bulj, do you support the Minister of Finance as the Club of Representatives of the MOST Zdravko Maric? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25131	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25132	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. As we know, Agrokor is in crisis. I have to say, Agrokor is a country in the country, he's been acting like this a lot. Laws, standards, regulations that applied to everyone else especially to the small and weakest for Agrokor often did not apply. The crisis was under surveillance at the end of last year when there was a rumor of layoffs in Jamnica, about the sale of Jamnica, and here she culminated at last. Agrokor as such has been unsustainable for a long time, there are too many debts, and it is too bad business and sometimes there has to be a breakdown of this economic model. This is a breakdown of both existing monetary policies and credit policy and fiscal policy because it shows that no one can repay loans or receive loans under such huge interest rates, it is only a matter of time before the breakdown occurs. But it was easy to do business for years when the state, which is yet to investigate, was eligible in every possible way, when the enlargement balances were opened while workers worked for minimum wages, while paying the fines, while the taxes were forgiven, they were questionable to charge concessions. It's easy to float like that. The laws clearly did not apply to Agrokor. As far as these points are concerned, we have statements from both the Minister and the CNB that this is illegal. My colleagues and colleagues, it's illegal for ten years, what's been going on for 10 years? We all saw consciously, or you who were in power here in violation of the law and how our institutions are, are saying that the law is not to be broken, that nothing has been done, is obviously the Agrokor state in the country that can do what it wants, whenever it wants. You should also say something about how Mr. Todorovic acquired the property, here's just one example of Jamnica. That magical time of conversion and privatisation, back in '93. She should have, simply the directive came from the top that Todorovic must be given Jamnica. At the time immediately after the local elections Branko Mikša was the mayor of Zagreb, Stjepan Vujanic was the mayor of Zagreb County. And since the plants are in Pisarovina, Zagreb County, Mr Vujanic should have signed that for small money to Todoric. He said no, be careful what you do. The county then is abolished, connects with the city of Zagreb, now Miksa is mayor and Vujanic is the mayor of a large new county. Miksha signs for Todorovic, this one takes over the firm. After that, the county returns to the map but this time not as Zagreb County but as the current name Zagreb County. It's just one little example. We can talk about PICs, about Bel. So he's and this whole set of furniture had conscious support from the state to do what it was doing, to spread in the way it was spreading and the crisis was when it had to happen. As for Mr Petrov's criminal charges against Mr. Todorovic, O.K., but I ask where is the criminal application for Mr. Marić and 5 other ministers sitting in the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Let's remember HBOR granted that Christmas loan to Mr. Todorovic knowing what the situation is, knowing that laws are being broken, knowing they won't be able to return. So here's the call, let's systematically solve the problem, where the criminal application is next to those ministers who consciously went into something they knew wouldn't make it. I can conclude that this issue has also dropped a budget based on a rise of 3.2%, I believe a rebalancing will be done. This is why we could get into one recession, and it's simply unsustainable this kind of projection that you voted in the long run. We offered an alternative in the form of monetary, credit fiscal reform, then it was declared a populist. Well, you're in charge of 10% interest on someone else's money. That's what our absolute priority here is to preserve fields, water sources, jobs, we can't let someone who doesn't have Croatian interests at heart fall for it. Also, this law will come to debate when it comes. We will insist that before it is activated the origin of the property of those to which it is applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25133	Thank you. And last on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, political elites did not protect economic sovereignty from privatisation, both in the Homeland War and after the Homeland War. All governments favored political tycoons. So the justification that was presented just before by colleagues Maras absolutely does not stand and we can see that now in the case of Agrokor, we can see that in the case of white nights, we can see that in the case of INA, Telecommunications that both the SDPs of the Government and the HDZ Government were servants of one's interests in this case of largely foreign interests and we see that Todorovic is also foreign interest. Because allowing the borrowing of Todorovic and the capture of the economic system and the circulation of all essential resources, water, fields, food production and trade leads the state to collapse. The sovereignty that the defenders fought for is here in Parliament, and they are now watching them, with such behaviour as the Government in which Mr Maras, the SDP, and in which the HDZ was brought sovereignty, in this case economic, monetary, competent sovereignty before bankruptcy. So the state, the Republic of Croatia, is this way as it was guided, as it was favored the tycoons from those who sold Split a humanitarian aid manister to those who now have courtes such as Todorovic. The fact that there was no control of the system of borrowing of Agrokor, which is as complex as the circulation of the economics, is obviously planned to be taken over by someone else. Yesterday I was at a grocery store in Konzum, and I was asked what was going to happen to the cashiers. Marasa doesn't care, he doesn't care because his agriculture minister Jakovina is 2 billion kunas that were needed by the Croatian OPGs in Slavonia who moved out because of this went to Todorovic. Also... if the CNB gave up billions of euros for Christmas, someone has to answer. Ivan Vilibor Sincic, if he knows this, has to file a criminal report as Bozo Petrov courageously raised against Todorovic and the administration. Enough demagogy for this speaker, you mismanaged Mr. Maras, you from the SDP and their coalition partners as well as HDZ so far with this system. It was shown on the INA where MOST defended national interests, where the government fell and in this case we will defend the interests of Agrokor, people, I know you're nervous, that you brought the state to bankruptcy, Mr. Maras, and that's why you object. [[President: Let's not throw it away!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25135	Comrade Maras, please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25136	Report criminal charges against those who mishandled...... who mismanaged. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25137	I warn you, my colleague Maras. Don't get it from the bench. Please! I'm warning you, colleague Maras again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25138	Thank you again very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again, if this hadn't been done by Bozo Petrov as a person, I would have personally done it towards Ivica Todorovic and management. That's what I did in Sinj for the alienated money, for the weapons of the 1990s and countless other situations. The demagogy that's spreading from this pay phone is over. The Croatian economy has been questioned and the entire Croatian state and blood spilled for this sovereignty. You mismanaged and you guessed, you filled your pockets uncontrollably with Todorovic and others, uncontrollably. You cannot justify yourself before the people, and MOST is the one who will know how to protect the economic system of Croatia and certainly not Ivica Todorovic, Tedeski and others who have destroyed this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25139	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did he get hurt in, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25140	The 238th article was injured where Mr. Bulj, on behalf of the club, directly insulted and accused me of not caring about people and of filling people's pockets, and at the same time the biggest demagogue there is he on behalf of the Most because he didn't answer. He reports Agrokor and supports Maric. You've had five minutes to tell Mr. Bull whether you support Maric or not. And you didn't say anything about it. So don't answer it again! Don't lie to people here! You're lying, Mr. Bull! You're a demagogue! The greatest demagogue there is. Tell me if you support Marić or do not support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25141	Okay. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure are not injured because such statements are heard every day here and you know it very well. You often pronounce them to other colleagues, therefore it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has been lifted by Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25142	The violation of the Rules of Procedure of 238 colleagues, Maras, interferes with his incursions and otherwise interferes with the speaker. I know he's neurotic, that truth hurts. Please chair him to remind him that I have used my entire debate as any parliamentary representative, i.e. Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u25143	My friend Bulj, it's my fault. That's why I warned my colleague Maras. [[Here we go again.]] Okay, now that we've done that, we can move on to the agenda. Okay, now that we've done that, we can move to the agenda and the first item of the agenda is - The proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of People with IPR" Proposer: The Committee on Health and Social Policy is a Proposer of the Committee on Health and Social Policy on the basis of Articles 85 and 172. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received his report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee Ines Strenja Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35586	I would like to thank the esteemed President, the esteemed fellow MPs. We should say a few words about the announcement this day and that everyone is actually hearing our message from this pay phone, which is that the Committee on Health and Social Policy at its 10th session of March 3rd set out a proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties that would be marked on 16 May. People with intellectual difficulties are a sensitive social group where there is an increased risk of social exclusion, and in this respect it is necessary to engage our society as a whole. Raising public awareness of this social group involves combating stereotypes and prejudices as well as promoting and respecting their rights, and active participation by all competent authorities which is of great importance for those with intellectual difficulties in order to raise the quality of their lives and full involvement in community life. 24662 people with intellectual difficulties were registered in the Republic of Croatia. According to this frequency of these difficulties are 6 persons per 1,000 inhabitants, and the group of people with intellectual difficulties accounts for 5% of the total number of registered persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Intellectual difficulties are not a disease and cannot be treated. In terms of intellectual difficulties, we think of the complex appearance of the condition of a person, or child, which is difficult to determine uniquely because it contains medical, psychological, pedagogical and social specifics. But there is not one, namely there is not one satisfactory definition that would express all its complexity. However, only in a community that accepts diversity and cultivates the tolerance of people with intellectual difficulties will achieve all their human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Republic of Croatia is a party to all key conventions and standards that have assumed the obligation to protect and promote human rights of disabled persons. The rights of persons with intellectual difficulties are achieved through a number of legal and other regulations, through international documents and the National Strategy for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, all in order to equalise opportunities for persons with disabilities. On 16 May, the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties also gives recognition to the Croatian Union of IPR associations that have been active since 1957 and gathers 31 associations in the Republic of Croatia and an alliance was established in May. Since the activities of this Alliance are aimed at protecting and achieving the rights of people with intellectual difficulties, but also at supporting families, there is an additional incentive to mark this day right after Family Day 15. May. Following this, the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament supports the initiative and proposes to the Croatian Parliament on 16 May to declare the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35587	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35588	Here I thank Dr Strenji-Linić as the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Health for a short but summed and comprehensive presentation. So today we are talking about people with intellectual difficulties and I absolutely support the initiative to maintain and mark a national day. What should also be taken into account are certain shifts, but it should be kept in mind about the importance of the completeness of inclusion and rehabilitation and the rehabilitation of people with intellectual difficulties. What used to be a problem, now it's somehow less and less, taking away the work ability of people with intellectual difficulties under some cover of obtaining certain social rights, unfortunately it's also sometimes driven by family members themselves. We need to work to enable the best education of people with intellectual difficulties so that they can get a better job and can get a job in the open labour market. Sometimes given the unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia, it seems impossible, but just marking a day like this can help change the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35589	Thank you. The distinguished representative Ines Strenja-Linić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35590	I'm thanking you. I'm having a discussion on behalf of the club, so I'm going to answer all of this in a slightly broader explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35591	Thank you. So now we're going to open up the debate and we're going to the first clubs. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists to speak again the distinguished representative of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a little bit wider from another aspect. I would like to say that according to the modern knowledge and approach of the World Health Organization, we define, on the basis of data available to the American Alliance for Mental Retardation, intellectual difficulties today as a significant restriction on the overall life of an individual characterized by an average intellectual function that is simultaneously accompanied by a reduced level of two or more adaptive skills. Areas of adaptive skills are communication, self-care, housing, social skills, self-orientation, health and safety, functional academic knowledge, leisure time and work. Intellectual difficulties as a condition are determined 18 years ago. Thus, numerous successful projects of promotion of care for people with intellectual difficulties, training projects of experts, scientific achievements of educational rehabilitation and complementar sciences, isolated financial resources at the level of cities and counties, as well as spot-based ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the signing of the Memorandum of Social Inclusion have instilled confidence. However, at an external level, they indicate a willingness to change, benevolence and openness of relevant social factors to the population of people with intellectual difficulties. But in practice these facts are shown in a different light. Despite the declarative attitude of society towards people with intellectual and mental difficulties, it is still far from open and positive. Intellectual difficulties are a complex condition that is difficult to determine uniquely because it also contains medical and psychological, pedagogical and social specifics. There's not one satisfactory definition, and I read one to you, it's an American that would express all its complexity. Intellectual difficulties are not a disease and cannot be treated. There are many obstacles in Croatia that make it difficult to employ people with intellectual difficulties. Many of them have no opportunity to finish regular school, choose the profession they want to deal with already end up in special schools. For example, if by profession the braider has difficulty with his hands, determines him to be a braider and has difficulty with his hands they continue to insist that he finish for the braider. It is just like today they continue to enroll children in books that actually today in this way that the books are printed no longer have room and will not be able to be employed. So in special schools, people with intellectual difficulties learn outdated occupations with which they can't find a job. Regular schools should also be open for these students where they can get better results, and better education will also mean better work for them. Students with difficulty need help in learning and a tailored school program that we need to provide. People with major intellectual difficulties find it very difficult to get a job because they do not have adequate support and the state does not care enough about their employment. The most important thing about getting and keeping a job is good support because it allows people with greater intellectual difficulties to work and keep a job. Support is needed already when looking for work in preparation for job adaptation and doing the job itself. With quality support, almost every person with intellectual difficulties could perform some work tasks and be employed in the open labour market. Unfortunately, because of work and waste of time, employers often do not want to introduce more adjustments to the job needed to do the job. Often employees with intellectual difficulties have little pay, which is even less than a family pension, which is why they are part of a group of very poor citizens. If they use accommodation services in centres of social care, they must make all the profits for accommodation services. That means they don't have anything left for their own personal needs. People work in less paid places than people with disabilities. Because of all this, they also have reduced motivation to work. We are the ones who should give them greater support in finding and retaining work. It is therefore necessary to give greater cooperation, to ensure greater cooperation between the education system, state-run employment institutions and the rehabilitation of people with intellectual difficulties in order to include them as many as possible in the open labour market. The withdrawal of the business capacity which, as a legal measure, should have served primarily to protect these persons in extremely difficult, extremely difficult living conditions has grown into a systematic, legal mechanism and has turned an exceptional protection measure into Paternazila and Domination. The stubbornness and closure of the legal bureaucratic system according to every attempt to assess the justification of the measures taken have been experienced in the painful and difficult long-term struggle of professionals who have integrated people with intellectual difficulties into the local community in providing professional support in achieving their rights to change guardians, re-skilling the ability to make marriage, the right to parenting, a child who has been taken from them against their will and committed to institutional care. The courage and determination of those with intellectual difficulties, the keen support of experts who have followed them on this thorny journey with all their knowledge and humanity today still have successful cases of change of guardians, the positive outcomes of re-experience and, accordingly, a few civil and churchly arranged marriages of people with intellectual difficulties. But these cases are too small to talk about significant shifts. The growing openness of employers to the employment of people with intellectual difficulties in recent years is still a good and positive fact. On the other hand, education studies confirm a high percentage of the positive attitudes of the general population when it comes to employment but at the same time to a drastic decline in positive attitudes when it comes to the rights of people with intellectual difficulties in achieving emotional relationships, marriage and parenting. For persons living in institutions and not involved in projects of gradual deinstitutionalisation of marriage remains an impossible reality. Yet, there are programmes of sex education that unfortunately do not exceed biological frameworks, even when they talk about protecting their own dignity. The question is how much we really know about life inside closed doors of institutions and how many users themselves can influence the quality of services and the care system provided there. It's final. In modern society the last 30 years of theory and practice rehabilitation of persons with intellectual mental and motor difficulties has been strong as a society aimed at their fuller involvement in the community of life. It is our obligation as a society to provide them with full social inclusion and work on models that will enable them to contribute themselves through their work, their improvement, our improvement and our declaration of this day, so we want to draw attention to it and contribute to their better social inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35593	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35594	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. We know about a proverb that says that society is as much as the weakest link in society and people with intellectual difficulties are definitely one of those people. It once says on the portal that one of the big problems they face when they get hired is that they can't sign a labor contract. That's because they're deprived of their business skills, so that's what the trustee decides instead. When a person is deprived of business skills, it is often impossible to get a job because some guardians often do not want to sign a contract out of fear of losing certain rights in the welfare system. Many people with intellectual difficulties are often deprived of their ability to work especially for those living within their families because they feel that this will result in social rights. Well, here's to just a little bit of commenting on what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35595	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35596	... You're absolutely right, so the biggest problem is to take away a business ability that makes it impossible for them to get a job and make contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This problem is recognised and will, in part, be legally possible that there is no and complete meaning of business incompetence but will be allowed that part of these persons can work alone and be capacitated to sign some contracts. But the question is, how much do we do by bringing them back into the community and what they're actually uninstitutional? Do these communities in which they live mean several of them in an apartment where they are cared for by a good solution? We believe that this is the way it should have been done but not in this way in which it went quite rapidly in Croatia. But also one part of them that stays in families is definitely out of the sight of those who should have control over what is actually happening in these families and how these people are completely socially excluded and part of the families that are poor actually live off their social benefits. I think that social work centres are the ones who actually play the biggest role in identifying such and preventing any malfeasance or abuse in some way because we know that some of them are in a lot of difficult situations, so and they are not allowed to go out, they are not really enough, they are not in contact with the environment, they are not, they are, they are, they are, they are not, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they So there's a lot of these problems that actually need the one that has supervision and that's the welfare center to have over that insight and try to intervene in certain families.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35597	Thank you very much. We would now move to the next club of representatives and that is the HDZ in the name of which the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35598	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague of Strenja-Linić's really very, very detailed in her debate about people with intellectual difficulties. As a disabled person, I have been meeting for many years and with this group of people with disabilities who can truly say one of the most sensitive. People with intellectual difficulties can say that they are one of the categories of people with disabilities most covered by deinstitutionalisation in the last few years. It is certainly evident that the Republic of Croatia has opted for the deinstitutionalisation of persons with disabilities. However, I must mention here that as much deinstitutionalisation is good and the Republic of Croatia as I have said has been defined precisely for deinstitutionalisation that many parents or families of people with intellectual difficulties continue to advocate the form of institutionalisation for reasons that worry about what will happen to their family members just when they are no longer there. They consider accommodation in one of the institutions to be a much better and better way of life for them. My personal opinion is that it is for some better deinstitutionalisation, and for some it is really a better form of accommodation in one of the institutions. At this very moment as we discuss this decision, a working group is held to amend and supplement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, employ people with disabilities. This law certainly also takes place on the employment of people with intellectual difficulties. In order for people with intellectual difficulties to really be employed and to make a quality contribution to their lives, they must first of all be educated as well as any person with disabilities if they do not have quality employment education, they can only dream. The education of people with disabilities as I have said is extremely important, but for many years we have been facing professions that are not competitive in the open labour market and are preparing in the Ministry of Education a document that will talk about what interests will be competitive in the open labour market and that they can end people with disabilities, and then also those with intellectual difficulties. I believe that this Law on Professional Rehabilitation, the employment of people with disabilities will still do a little better for the employment of people with disabilities than we've had so far, so people with intellectual difficulties will be able to find their place both in the protection workshops and then on the open labour market. I personally know a large number of people with intellectual difficulties who have had a full age pension. So they made a pension. In doing so, they earned their lives and were not burdened by the State. It is the interest of all persons with disabilities, but we all know that the Republic of Croatia has passed the Law on a single body of art. That's what we've wanted for many years. We wanted to keep the art in one place. When I say in one place, I mean not only in Zagreb, but I think that a person with disabilities is reported once and that this artisan can be used in all systems. The law on a single body of art did not get the best results, so this government and it will soon have to change it in order to together, so the Law on the Single Body of Art and the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities brings really those results that we have been expecting for many years. I could talk a lot about the attitude of society towards people with disabilities, and so could those with intellectual difficulties. But today I don't have that much time to talk about it. I will just say that no matter how hard we try, I will also say that the Republic of Croatia is the third country in the world to sign the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And when they told us then, maybe you're too early to sign the Convention. Are you aware that this is causing certain costs? Then we were a delegation that was in the UN, and I thank God I had the honor of being present there, and then we said that we knew that it would cause certain costs, but that we wanted to have the wind in the back to simply go as soon as possible and to adapt the quality of the rights of the disabled to some better and better standards. I think that's what we did. Of course not completely and never fully satisfied, there is still a lot of work ahead of us, but I am personally very pleased that this government has put people with disabilities in its program, as well as those with intellectual difficulties. And that from personal assistants through education to employment gives its maximum to allow persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia to live on an equal footing with all other citizens. May 16th, which should be declared a national day for people with intellectual difficulties, is important, that it will be marked after Family Day. It was extremely important for the alliance to be that very day because when they talk about people with intellectual difficulties and their problems, they talk about them not only but also their families. It is extremely important to sensitize families with intellectual difficulties. I won't tell them how hard it is to live, they may find it difficult until they learn how to live with an intellectual person and what are the values that they can get out of such a life. An educated family, an educated parent, surely lives far easier than a family that is not educated. Thus, the Alliance of People with intellectual difficulties will this day point to the problems they face. However, I expect that, in addition to the problem, it will point to those positive examples that it certainly has. I believe that, as on December 3rd, when the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is marked in the future, we will listen to more and more positive examples that people with disabilities face, and believe me, there are many. Instead of the problems faced equally and pointed out to me here a few days ago, I was present at a panel discussion in Varazdin where there was just talk about the problems of people with intellectual disabilities and other disabilities, but primarily intellectual difficulties. The parents who spoke there some of them must have told you they didn't even see a way out of their situation. However, through a joint discussion, we came to the solution that it is necessary to establish a daily center where parents could take their child during their working hours to meet their work needs and all other needs, so that their family life is easier and simpler. Here, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can say that we support this decision and look forward to marking this day, this year in a very special way, I could say spectacularly how this is being prepared and to warn that people with intellectual difficulties have the right to live in a way worthy of man. And I believe that recently, as I have mentioned earlier, we will listen to positive examples thanks to this government, and I have to tell the resolute minister, Mrs. Nadi Murganic, who would say miracles, in order to enable all persons with disabilities in some way to live evenly in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35599	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35600	Dear colleagues, thank you for bringing us some details. Since I'm not an expert here, it's a complex problem. I think that every civilised country and society should take care of the lowest and most vulnerable groups, the weakest groups in society, and of course it always depends on one word, is that it's stressful, it's money. Now I wonder here if Croatia expects 14.8 billion euros from the EU by 2020 for the Croatian budget that will come here, how much will be allocated to the people we are talking about today, about those people with special needs? And the second question, we expect 14.8 billion euros by 2020, but from 2001 to 2010, 15.2 billion euros were stolen from Croatia. For that no one is responding to that legalized robbery, off the Shore Company, etc., when will it be back? That's where we listen to cheap jokes about humanism every day, etc. But the one outside, the... You have 14 families data that have savings of only 14 families 1.7 billion kuna in a bank account we have out there and every year they get only for interest 50 million kuna per year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's with the money? What about pre-fashion settlements, etc.? And until that money comes back, the data has all the jump. That money could also be deployed where necessary, but he's not here yet. And if we're doing this, we'll be waiting for us until we're 18 years old Greek... Collapse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there won't be any money for these people we're talking about today or for the pensions for the defenders, etc... Then we have an implosion of the pension system and the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35601	Thank you for the response of the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35602	Thank you very much. My colleague and I can really agree with your replica, but I must say that for many years we, persons with disabilities, have wanted to have legal issues in the Republic of Croatia above all, so laws that regulate the rights of persons with disabilities, to be created in one quality way. People with disabilities have achieved some of their rights so far through projects. And I have to tell you that a lot of money has come out of the EU, however, problems have also arisen. When the project is completed, the question is what will continue to happen with the exercise of rights. You probably had a chance to see yourself here as we talked about personal assistants. We therefore want the rights of persons with disabilities to be regulated by the law, to set certain resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35603	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35604	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleagues, I really agree with your debate, you've given us a series of data and this part where I look back on it is the right to live in the community of everyone because it's the fundamental right of man. But I also agree in that part that the situation is specific. And we as individuals are each specific. So that's why it needs a combination of exactly where it's possible to be living in a community, so in a family, whether it's living communities, which is also good where 400 people in the last three years have come out of a system of closed institutions. And unfortunately, we also need to respect specificity and these are also institutions where accommodation needs will always be. But what I'd be interested in is your opinion of the protection workshops. During some periods, they were extremely active and employed by many people with disabilities. They had far greater privileges, or we stimulated them. It's been a bit of a concern lately, so I'm curious to know what your opinion is about the adoption of this new law on professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. I agree, it is necessary in the full school of career change and especially in this section. So let's hear what you're thinking and see how you can see beyond those protective workshops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35605	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35606	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I'm going to brief you on what the housing communities are all about. They already exist in the Republic of Croatia. I personally think we should improve them. I don't think that's settled in the best possible way yet, even though there are. And as for the protection workshops, unfortunately there are fewer of them than there used to be in the Republic of Croatia, and I'd say fortunately we've managed to maintain these 10, 12, as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia. As for the incentive, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities provided incentives for protection workshops that employ people with disabilities through the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Certainly the protection workshops should be kept. I must say that at one point in the Republic of Croatia the position prevailed that they were not necessary and that they were, and should have been deleted from the law. We fought hard to keep the protection workshops safe because they weren't just disabled people working in them. And it's not good for people with disabilities only to work and people with disabilities and people with disabilities, it takes at least 51% of people with disabilities. There will certainly be incentives, we will not give them up, the protection workshops will continue to be promoted as well as employers in the open labour market. The intensity of this society is that as many people with disabilities as possible try to hire in the open labour market and those who cannot work in the protection workshops. I believe that we will succeed and achieve and one part of it we already have, but precisely because the law was not exactly the best, that is why we are changing it and I believe that new solutions will also come to quality employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35607	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35608	Dear Representative Lukačić, you mentioned how there are still those persons with whom deinstitutionalisation is not possible. When we talk about people with intellectual difficulties specifically to persons who are diagnosed with mental retardation it is a broad diapazone and there are several degrees whose common denominator is significantly below the average intellectual function. Of course, we have situations where we should try to fully engage in a wider social community so that I would dare say, on the one hand, an institution that no longer needs to be as large as it used to be, so full inclusion in society, if possible, is within the family. The whole concept of change from a medical to a social person with intellectual difficulties contributes to this, but we still have to admit that the relationship of society to people with intellectual difficulties is intolerable, that the relationship between the community is negative, which increases the vulnerability of people with intellectual difficulties and families, which then, of course, reflects on the situation we have, that certain companies still prefer to pay fines rather than hiring people with disabilities. And in the context of declaring and marking the day of people with intellectual difficulties, I also expect the role of the media to increase the awareness that we all contribute together as a society, to show some bright examples, individual cases to be a rule rather than an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35609	Thank you. Answer to the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35610	Thank you very much. I am particularly pleased that you mentioned in your replica as a doctor that it is good that we started from the medical model according to the social model. That's what we've been trying for many years. And as for society toward those with intellectual difficulties, I mentioned it briefly in my discussion. Yes, we cannot be completely satisfied and not only with people with intellectual difficulties but generally with people with disabilities. Unfortunately, most of them, I won't say most of them, but a lot of our employers like you said would rather pay compensation instead of hiring a disabled person. And we had a chance to hear the employers point out that this fee was imposed. We're trying to explain that it's really not an imposition. I am extremely pleased that the Minister of Labour has also accepted such an explanation and I do not think that it is really an imposition. And that fee will stay. However, employers do not really have to pay that fee unless they can or do not want to hire a disabled person, they have a number of other options in order to fulfil their legal obligation through replacement quotas. That's the problem, you know. No replacement quotas are met either. And if they meet at least one of the replacement quotas, they accept the practice of students with developmental difficulties, students or conclude a contract with one of the protection workshops if they need anything, so they need to buy, then they really don't have to pay that fee. However, this fee also benefits us in order to improve professional rehabilitation and pay incentives for disabled people, so here I believe that both new law and these things will be a little more qualitatively solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35611	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lukačić, of course, would like to say first of all that I fully support, so the decision to make a decision on the day of marking persons with difficulties, with intellectual difficulties, and I certainly believe that such a decision will primarily contribute to the sensitisation of the Croatian public and of course Croatian society towards those with intellectual difficulties and raise awareness of the importance of a special, therefore access to such persons. And on the other hand, of course, I think it will contribute to raising standards in the field of inclusion of people with intellectual difficulties in society. And I would just briefly refer to that part of the debate you were talking about about the quality of life in a family where people with intellectual difficulties and relationships live, so families to such persons where in practice I would dare say we still have two situations completely opposite to each other. On the one hand, we have in the part, so such families truly have a clear awareness of the need for a particularly tailored approach to people with mental retardation in order to stimulate all their capacities that will affect the meeting of all their needs, of course needs and the right to a decent life. While on the other hand, unfortunately we still have examples and families, as well as local communities who have not yet regained consciousness and who, unfortunately, still react in a way that is particularly up-to-date in our rural areas, especially in those situations where we have cases of dysfunctional families, families with the appearances of alcoholism, etc. And so I think that I should really put emphasis on the need for education in both institutional and non-institutional terms in order to strengthen the awareness of the right to a decent life of such persons. So first of all, it strengthened employers' awareness of an important segment, which refers to their employment to develop a sense of belonging to the community in which they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35613	Thank you. Reply by the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35614	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, yes, you've all said well, I am convinced that the marking of this national day for those with intellectual difficulties will also contribute to a better and better quality life for themselves, and their families, and I believe that on that very day they will find a way to educate people around them. Whether it's a small environment or a large environment, it's easier to live every disabled person in a large environment because he has more opportunities. Through the Alliance of People with intellectual difficulties, and through the National Roof Association, the Association of Persons with Disabilities seeks to educate as many small communities as possible that life is a person with disabilities not only in Zagreb, not only in Osijek, Split or Rijeka but also in any small village. So every person with disabilities must have the opportunity to go to school in their midst because it is the least traumatic for her. Whether it's a person with physical disability or a person with intellectual difficulties, that's why there are assistants in the follow-up to allow them easier education. I believe that soon and at this point, we will also adopt a rule on personal assistants in the teaching that will in a fair way enable every person with disabilities to have equal schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35615	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the next club of representatives, and that's the HNS-HSU on behalf of which will speak the distinguished representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35616	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU club also supports the announcement of a national day of people with intellectual difficulties on 16 May. We have already heard and heard here today, and we all know that intellectual difficulties are not a disease, and this is not some condition that can be treated but is simply one unique, it is difficult to uniquely determine this condition because of the various medical, psychological, pedagogical and social specifics that determine them. What saddens me is that most often these children are forced to attend special schools where they learn occupations that are unfortunately no longer competitive at all, there is no need for them at all, and they are forced to go to these schools in some way. What I definitely think today is that they should be included in regular schools with perhaps partially adapted programs. We ourselves know that we have personal assistants who can help children and children themselves will feel much better and much more useful in the company of their peers with whom they grew up since their birth. I believe that people with intellectual difficulties must have the right to work because you yourself know that working brings us some sense of value, a sense of respect for yourself and contributes to a better feeling in the communities of those people themselves. Unfortunately, as mentioned earlier when people with intellectual difficulties succeed in finding work, they sometimes have problems with their families or guardians who refuse to sign contracts because they fear that they will be left without various social benefits and other help. And I think that definitely social care centres need to take more care of it, need to take more care of how these people are cared for and possibly intervene if they come to the conclusion that something like this happens to these people, or those families in which their families are trying to take away their working ability. I definitely believe that, with the quality support of the rest of society and employers, any person with intellectual difficulties could carry out certain work tasks and could be employed in the open labour market, we just need to give them a chance and we all need to work to make it possible for them. There's a case in my county that's been pretty shocked by me, it's a couple of years old about their institutionalization. I definitely believe that as much as possible to work on deinstitutionalisation as possible and that they can live alone in communities because they can take care of themselves with the help of assistants. In fact, in some social institutions there are various deliverys and threats to people with intellectual difficulties and here I also appeal to social care centres that more water attention is being paid to them and that the institution employees are doing more work because people with intellectual difficulties even if someone additionally threatens them and forces them to do something that is definitely something scary nowadays. Croatia has done a lot of work on the right person with disabilities by now, but although we have come a long way, I think we have a lot of work to do. And I'd like to say one sentence here, recently I've been watching a little video clip, although it was made on the day of a person with Down syndrome, but I think their message can also be transmitted to people with intellectual difficulties. And they said they weren't looking for anything special. So they don't need any special type food, they mention not eating for breakfast dinosaur eggs, they don't walk around in armor the only thing they need is education, work, to give them opportunity and love and friendship just like we do, and I think they deserve it, and that's why we support being declared the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties on 16 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35617	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned special schools that are mostly attended by people with intellectual difficulties. We need to know that there are several levels of intellectual difficulties. Therefore, I and everyone in Croatia expect the unique body of art to know exactly which person has some level of intellectual difficulties so that what you know today does not happen to us, and it is not a rare case that creates even greater problems for us to instruct the person with intellectual difficulties in economic and administrative school. But the person with, for example, moderate intellectual difficulties, which may not be capable and cannot end such a school because of its difficulties. However, if her program is adjusted in some way, she is given a personal assistant thinking that it will be a successful school graduation. Some people don't think that's possible. And that's why I'm talking about making a decision at the ministry about occupations that will end up in certain categories of people with disabilities. Because it didn't happen once that someone with intellectual difficulties came to you, and I personally experienced it, and I brought a testimony that he had completed his administrative school, and unfortunately you immediately see that this job can't work. And then you feel extremely horrible and unfair towards that person because you have to actually give it to her if you want to hire someone else I would say even an auxiliary interest because she's not able to do this kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35619	Thank you. Answer to the esteemed representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35620	Dear MPs, I fully agree with you and there should be some unique, unique way of classification but unfortunately in many places it is the simplest of families and doctors, although it may be a mild difficulty for them to say it all in a way they put it in the same basket and do not give these children a chance at all. So you definitely need to set the criteria, you have to do a certain work, I mean no research but work with the kids before you see what those kids are even prone to, which they'll be able to do. And I definitely agree with that, there's no point in putting them in some occupation where later, they're simply not going to be able to work, but also let's not put them all in some occupations like that, it's been mentioned now, the importing of books or braiders, practically occupations that are no longer available and are not needed in this labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35621	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed Blessed Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35622	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Puh, I agree with you that the biggest problem in hiring such persons is absolutely but I think that local levels, county and state institutions must be an example in showing employment to such persons because this will also show private entities how useful it is. One short card, one, and more as an incentive to all and of course to disabled people like this little Marine here, proof that they are truly acceptable in the middle of both work and local and any other. Marina is extremely good and obedient, she's never late for work, she's always smiling and happy, she's become a part of us and it's hard for us to imagine that we could function without her at all. We simply love her, said Marina's colleague, adding that fear of the arrival of a person with special needs in the work environment was scattered on the same first working day of her work. A valuable employee with special emotions is also the principal of this kindergarten who remembered her first meeting with Marina at this time. We met, and I asked her how she was doing at work, and she told me everything was great, but to come to her sad when the weekend came because she couldn't work for the weekend. These words may best speak about how big Marina really is, loving her job. The director added, Marina increased our labour collective productivity by 10 to 15%. Marina smiled at her children who came to that kindergarten. So don't hesitate to hire a person like Marine because they will help you and the children in that kindergarten, in that working collective and give you all a smile on your face every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35623	Thank you very much. The Honorable Maria Puh will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35624	My colleague, I agree with you, I am very pleased to hear this story. I hope that all the local levels will be encouraged by this story of yours and more work to integrate people with intellectual difficulties, because they are really valuable members of our community. The work itself and the opportunity to provide them with an added sense of value. And you wanted to admit it to me or not, those when they get the chance to work harder and more to prove and that they can justify their abilities and their ability. And here I am glad you shared this story of yours. I hope that as many people as possible will hear about her and give an opportunity to people with intellectual difficulties, as well as to other disabled people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35625	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedeković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35626	Here's my colleague, so I agree, of course, with everything you've been talking about. First of all, I would look again very briefly at just defining the concept, so intellectual difficulties. And you said yourself that the concept is very significant, so the nature of intellectual difficulties is very diverse and it's difficult to define unequivocally, so what it all comes down to. And it's also even harder to predict which direction, so intellectual difficulties in its development, given its intensification throughout life. And therefore, there are also what counterpart Lukačić spoke of different categories, so people with intellectual difficulties at different levels. I'd just like to look back, and you've partly talked about how our system reacts and how our system determines and edits the tracking of people with intellectual difficulties on verticals from preschool education to let's say to employment. So, you have, a child enters preschool, finishes, so he leaves kindergarten, and there they sort of deal with him. After that, she comes to a primary school where I myself witnessed such situations where she is categorized, so either in at least two categories, or she receives a tailored programme as referred to in Article 7 or she is assigned to a special department. And that's how it lasts until fourth grade. Five to eight later. And then he comes to high school, followed by, of course, his assistant, which is a major breakthrough. Then he comes to high school where he needs to be followed again where he usually gets an assistant. Custom programs are rare. The special programmes are almost gone and referred to as completion, so some high schools according to their current abilities to enter the labour market. Most often these are occupations that unfortunately today They don't finish. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Excuse me, one sentence to finish. I therefore believe that this is a problem of systemic nature and in such a way that it is systematically needed and solved so that people with difficulties can be systematically and quality monitored throughout life. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35627	Answer to the distinguished representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35628	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's everything you said I agree with that. I'd just like to further point out that at any rate it must not be easily approached by this person alone I don't know how to call the degree of disease. So if at least, in one step, some other degree may be assessed by that person, let's say that life can be made worse and directed in the wrong direction, and later this is already quite difficult to correct and return in the right direction. So, as counterpart Lukacic said, there is definitely a certain evaluation that will be held tight and thus help people with intellectual difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35629	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strike, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35630	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to our colleague's debate, and I must stress that I agree with the debate. Among other things last week, the candidate for the mayor of the city of Varazdin, Mr. Habian, organised a stands called the opening of a daily youth centre and persons with severe intellectual and physical difficulties. The tribune has given rise to great interest in both the media and the public, and this is about the following. There are 177 people in the Varazdin County alone who receive a personal disability. All these people up to the age of 21 can attend the school Tomislav Špoljar. After 21 years, these individuals are literally locked in a circle of their families or most often within 4 walls. Now that both of us are coming from the 3rd electoral unit, I think it would be good to, and also related to what my colleague Boban said, to make both municipalities and cities and counties when it comes to these topics involved in doing everything possible to open up a centre of daily character, to make life more quality and easier for those persons, but also for their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35631	Thank you very much. Answer to the distinguished representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35632	Well, here's my colleague, I'm glad you support my debate and that you agree with my thoughts, with you now mentioning the local level I must inform you that we in Krapina-Zagorje County are also socially organized. And here I was, starting two weeks ago, one of the stands where there was talk of peer violence at the time. But we will continue to work on all topics, even to help people with disabilities. And I call on all of our colleagues and colleagues to work throughout Croatia to raise awareness and familiarise citizens with social problems and to be as socially involved as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35633	Thank you very much. Since there's no one else registered with that, I'd like to conclude the debate. We'll vote after 12 o'clock and now we'll take a half-hour break and meet here at 12 o'clock to vote on the points we discussed. Thank you. It's 11:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] MEETING IN 12.01 HOURS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think the situation only deserves a moment to inform you here together, and I'd like to ask you in person for one favor. The point is that during yesterday, Mr. President of the Parliament who I thought would be here, filed a criminal complaint against the Agrokor Administration. As Mr Zdravko Maric, as he became Minister of Finance for many years, was the closest associate of these people, I ask that Mr. President of the Parliament be shown whether Mr. Zdravko Maric, as minister of finance, still has his trust, so please forward my inquiry to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-31-0.u35637	We are now going to propose a decision to declare the national day of people with intellectual difficulties, the proposer is the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to declare the national day of persons with intellectual difficulties. Please, let's vote. The vote is over, 112 votes for, not one against, not one abstention. I find that a decision has been unanimously taken to declare the National Day of People with Intellectual Disabilities in the text as proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy.
