ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58674	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians and parliamentary representatives, State Secretary, dear public, who follow us through the media. Here are the gentlemen before you a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, so one proposal for a law that we are confident will improve the existing system, the existing law, clarify existing provisions and contribute to better, better quality work of the unit of local and regional self-government in the future. I would point out the most important changes that go with this bill, and of course later in the debate, we have an opportunity to discuss everything that you consider necessary. Perhaps as the most important institute here in public lately stands out, and this is the new way to regulate relations between the representative body and the executive body, when I say representatively I mean municipal councils, city and county councils, and the executive body here I mean the head of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy. We have defined here that indeed the budget becomes what it is, and that is the basic financial document of each unit of local and regional self-government. Therefore, it must not be converted into any instrument which, in any way, God would not allow certain inadmissible pressures on anyone, whether on the council or on a leader or on a third party, he must indeed serve and be directly expressed by citizens through all the projects they need and which need to be implemented in the next year or in the plans and projections for the next two years. Here we are convinced that with this new model, we will precisely achieve this purpose, which is that the budget becomes the true will of the representative body, the true will of the citizens, and in order to realise all those necessary projects for that unit of local self-government. In this regard, we have defined that if the first thing we have committed to the head of the body is that it is obliged to submit a budget which, under the applicable law, was not an obligation. So if the head of the body doesn't hand over the budget, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband only the head of that body. Under the applicable law, if the head of the body fails to submit the budget, the government will disband both the head of the body and the representative body. In this way, the head of the body could initiate the disbandment of the representative body, which is not in spirit with the Constitution, nor with the law, nor with any basic pillars and foundations of democracy. So unless the head submits the budget, the Government of the Republic of Croatia only disbands the head of the body, and the representative body remains and will also vote for or against the new budget. As more power is given to the representatives of the citizens, so to the Assembly or the Municipal Council, to the City Council, and to the citizens directly and directly, so that the representative body has the opportunity to propose amendments to the proposed budget. Of course, these amendments must comply with the specific regulation, with the Budget Act. However, the representative body may, in cooperation with fellow citizens, with local committees, to intervene in that budget exactly as I think most necessary, propose to this budget what is necessary to the local or regional self-government unit to meet all interests, all projects. If the municipal council adopts such a budget, it is okay, the budget goes on, the local self-government unit develops, the head implements the budget as best as possible. However, if such a budget, which is mentioned here, has been created by a representative body in cooperation, we hope and wish to believe, in cooperation with our voters, with local committees, co-chairs and leaders, will accept such a budget then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the leader, again the leader, and not the representative body. If, on the other hand, the proposed body refuses to accept the budget without any discussion, without any argument. It is then clear that the representative body does not want to draw up a quality budget but only wants to politicise, and then the government of the Republic of Croatia will disband that representative body. We think that, we do not think, but we are sure that this proposed new one will increase and political stability will save a lot of, a lot of money in early elections, giving time to both the representative and the executive bodies so that they can prepare projects in quality for next year and thus contribute to a more quality budget that will better reflect the will and needs of voters on the ground. Besides that, I would say the most important changes we have detailedly addressed the issue of funding units in situations where no budget has been adopted. Then we have detailed the powers of the Commissioner, we have arranged whom the Government of the Republic of Croatia can appoint as Commissioner in order to prevent so far a rare practice that these Commissioners are named by some kind of political resemblance. We hereby conditioned that the Commissioner must have high school equipment, that he must be the head of the local self-government unit, and as long as he does not or does not wish then from the office of the state administration for that county. This continued to professionalise the role of Commissioners who are here tasked with ensuring until the next election, i.e. to elect the next leader a normal and regular functioning of the local self-government unit. Then we reacted to the rights of leaders who act on duty as volunteers. We have limited that in the election year he cannot change the way in which he is acting from volunteering to professionally, just so that he does not, in order to reduce the number of those fees after the term of office, so that officials have the right to receive and all to save, so as not to burden themselves with local and regional budgets. We sort of arranged the question of council fees. In practice today, we have situations where council fees are determined either by the presence of the session, either monthly in the flat-rate amount, or by the combination of each other. We have prescribed that, therefore, a council fee shall be arranged by the municipal council with its act but that it may be paid exclusively by the presence of the councilor at each session. By exempting the presidents and vice presidents here, because here we appreciate that they also have an obligation outside the sittings to negotiate with the Chief of Marking, preparation for the meetings, etc. We have also arranged a councilman, the elected councilman is entitled to a reasonable absence from the work to participate in a particular session. We had examples in practice, and we see it from all the concepts that the ministry is just processing that certain employers refused to let the councilman go to the session and of course that it is also preventing democracy, that it is not acceptable and that this way we have prescribed that the employer is obliged to let on the unpaid day of the council to attend that day at the session. We also made it possible, I would say better cooperation between units of local self-government where we said that we could set up joint departments, joint working bodies, regardless of whether they're territorialally connected or not today. So today, local self-government units must be territorially connected to form some common services. Now we haven't put it on condition, I think it's also one breakthrough. In addition, we have allowed units of local self-government to be less than 3,000 inhabitants so that they can establish more administrative departments and not like today's practice is a single administrative department. We have the needs of units of local self-government that are stronger, more developed, more fiscally potent that they have the need to set up administrative departments, special, for example for tourism, the communal economy or the like, and today they don't have that legal option. So we made it possible for those with financial opportunities to have real needs to set up other administrative departments within the municipality. We have also strengthened the representative body with regard to local committees and wheels, so under the new draft law, the representative body can initiate the establishment of a local committee which, under the applicable law, could not. And only a representative body can disband a local committee. Under the current law, this is within the authority of the mayor, so the mayor, the mayor that we really consider inappropriate that the executive authority is disbanding, I would say the legislative authority, or representative power, and we have restored that power, i.e.. We put it down on the presidential body, not the head of the body anymore. Here, I briefly pointed out those things that seem to me to be the most important in these amendments and the additions to the law. I believe that they will contribute to better and better quality work of units of local and regional self-government, directly strengthen the representative body, directly strengthen the influence of citizens in the procedures of the most important process, especially by adopting a budget so that we believe that we will also raise the quality of these financial documents, especially budgets to a higher level. Of course, we look forward to all your suggestions, your comments, your discussion and everything to bring this law into full application as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58675	I thank the Minister. We have 11 replicas. The first is a respected colleague of Mateo's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58676	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. First of all, I want to express my satisfaction that you are here today, that you represent this law. Thus, you show a certain respect for the local self-government unit which is expected of you as a minister and as the former head of local self-government. But my replica is related to the term of adoption of this law. Today it is November 15th, which is the basis of the Budget Act, the last term when the leaders, the holders of the executive authority, should present the draft budget to their representative bodies. We, as the leaders of local self-government, will do so, that is what we have done. However, we do not know by which law the budget will be passed. Not only that, but also a law that is also extremely important for the creation of a budget that is the Law on the financing of local self-government was only here in the first reading without saying that the law on regional development or on a new index of development is not yet in the draft. So if the government's intensity was to make a certain political stability at local level, then these terms certainly do not contribute to this stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58677	There's no response to the replica. The second is the esteemed Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58678	Thank you, Mr. President. The law we're discussing today got one in public, so I'd say even an ugly name and that's the lex sheriff. It was named because it strengthens the role of the executive body in relation to the representative body in local self-government units. I'll be free and read you article 133. The Republic of Croatia states: ‘The right to self-government is exercised through local or regional representative bodies, which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct, equal and general voting law.’ The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because you deny local self-government representative bodies the ability to control and pressure the executive authority in those units. So, I listened to what you were saying, very carefully and you said in this section about the budget next, that it was a financial document, but it's not like that. The budget that we bring for the Republic of Croatia and the one that we bring for the units of local self-government is not just a financial document, it is a political document that we define what units of local self-government will do for the next year or plan for the next two years. This document must be a fruit of cooperation. With this law, you deny that cooperation, and it is particularly expressed in something you have said. The mayor will not be able to refuse to execute the budget but I am now asking you, at the time when the local self-government unit, or the representative body of the local self-government unit, as the only authorised adoption of the budget, how could the mayor refuse to execute that budget except that it executes items and actions beyond those planned in the budget? So I ask you to explain to me how you brought this law in line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58679	Thank you. Let's move on, third replica, dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58680	Thank you, Mr. President. So, Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you mentioned that I will quote that "the law will improve the existing system". This can be interpreted in different ways. So, if by improving you consider less extraordinary choices then I can agree with that, but I don't think that's a big improvement. In fact, before the current law was passed at the Ministry of Administration, we had a bunch of cases where the head of the body and council, the mayor and the mayor and the council were suing each other, so when they couldn't replace him, they wrote criminal charges, representations of administrative inspection, performances to various other institutions, and then instead of cooperating, they would be competing on who would report to whom again and again. By passing a new law, it was something reduced and the budget account was pending. And then the election would solve the crisis or the citizens would choose so that the crisis would continue because they voted differently. One for the captain's side for the representative's body, where it's tight. So, my impression is that if it wants to prevent a number of choices that may be the most correct solution that if a budget is not adopted to be temporary financing until the budget is adopted, at least all four years, then some citizens and the commissioner and the council explain why they are on a cold drive and why they can't agree or force them to no longer be able to explain to the citizens why they are doing it, that they go to elections at any point when they agree on it, it would be the solution that would be most stable and then they would remove this unfortunate syntagma lex sheriff from this law because, in fact, because of Article 21, he no longer deserves this syntagma in my opinion because in this way and the head of the unit of local self-government would force him to live in an unwanted so-called so-called state. a bad marriage because it can get a budget that he can neither nor wants to carry out, and thus the crisis will deepen rather than resolve in the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58681	Let's move on. The fourth replica, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58682	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Your Honor, I am also expressing my satisfaction that you are here with us today, and you will listen little to the remarks we have regarding this law. We have called this law a lex sheriff although it seems to me it would be better if we called by the name of a man who is the mayor of the largest city in Croatia and the other Parliament after this Parliament is a hundred meters away. We have here pleasure with the presidents of both Parliament at this point, but my question concerns something else. We bring or there is a budget of the Republic of Croatia and at the level of the year 576 budgets are made. At the level of 4 years, it's 2 304 budgets, and when you see how many times we went to elections, we're about 1.5% compared to the number that we're talking about. We tried hard, so we figured it out a little bit. You said in your presentation, among other things, the following. To bring stability to these and to make these inputs in a certain way and financial savings. So I'm particularly interested in how much this cost 1.5% of the election in those four years and what kind of savings are we talking about? For the simple reason you're going to change the law then you have some purpose, you have some purpose, you know why you're doing it. If we only do this because in the largest city in Croatia is one instability in the city hall, then it's too expensive, then it's too expensive for anything we've done. Equally, it would be really good to know what amount that is because then we could discuss a little differently and otherwise for the end, so the cheapest are dictatorships.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58683	Let's move on, dear colleague Podolnjak, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58684	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. The first question concerns the procedure for the adoption of this proposed law. According to the Law on the right of access to information pre-marks of the law, it was intended to consult the interested public, as a rule, within 30 days. This law you're proposing was only 15 days of counseling, so it's extremely short. It's a very important system law. Do you not think that this is exactly the possibility that someone will certainly use to challenge the formal constitutionality of the law if it is adopted in the Croatian Parliament. In my view, that is a valid reason for this law to be considered formally unconstitutional. And secondly, as one colleague has already said, today begins formally for the representative body the process of budgeting. I already know a representative body that will decide on a draft budget on Monday. You did not foresee any possibility for this law to enter into force for several months, that representative bodies should be allowed to adopt or not adopt the budget under the existing law. So, how did you imagine that this and all the other provisions would take effect in mid-December right in the course of the budgetary process without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58685	Replica number six, dear colleague Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58686	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you said in your statement that one of the most important things to be brought about by these amendments to the law is actually a new model of the relationship between the executive authority and the representative body. And that's exactly the most controversial element. In fact, it's amazing how easily you access this whole story in a way that definitely reduces the constitutional right of citizens defined in Article 133, which explicitly states that citizens are entitled to local, self-government through representative bodies. So there's no mention of the head of the executive. It's amazing that you actually want to kill an entire cow because of the picturesque word of one steak, that you don't see the forest from one tree. That, in fact, because of the marginal number of cases if you want and the marginal cost, you went to a reform that would cost us dearly, which would undermine not only the right of citizens to exercise their right to local self-government through representative bodies, but would lead to the increased role of the executive head to the extent that no one else can do anything to them. And when this law combines with the amendments and additions of the Law on the financing of local self-government, which actually gives you even greater authority and financial independence to the head of local self-government, then the question arises whether representative bodies will actually become the most common voting machines, the space of blackmail, the space of political corruption where the representative body, in order not to be disbanded, will actually agree to all compromises that were once very rotten. It's not simply the truth that they're going to stand for their role. They'll be marginalized.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58687	Thank you. The seventh replica of a esteemed colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58688	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Kuščević, I don't think it's good for this one of yours to say a strategy, not to have a dialogue with us MPs. I mean, this is a very serious topic. I have no doubt that you may have had good intentions in all this, but there are legitimate objections to this bill. You see, by 2009, you had enough to buy one councilman to become chief. After 2009, it's enough to buy one councilman to stay chief. Now, according to this proposal, it seems to me, as my colleague Beus Richembergh said, now we need to buy a slightly larger amount of councilman, actually almost the whole council. When I say buy under quotes, I think they must be won in such a way that they vote for that budget, to be given certain concessions in order for them to still give their vote. This law is important. You're in the network today, the first time I listened on the radio, I announced changes to the law next year, important changes to the law. Because actually I don't see reforms in local self-government from this law, I see only cementing the existing state. You must have handled the situation on the ground. Now, what kind of condition is that? It doesn't stand here in the light of the law, it doesn't actually have that data. Let's say one thing: 80% of our seats have less than 500 inhabitants, 80%. 90% have less than 1,000 inhabitants. These are all important data to understand local self-government at all, to listen to what is being resented here to Parliament as a political body in order to listen to the professional public and you as a minister would certainly have to do so. I hear you're opposed to experts in this area of local self-government. So the law should be prepared anyway. If you're already planning on a year, one really changes to start reforming the local administration. Local self-government and just one more question. You're saying according to the new provision of the local self-government unit, they can form a single administrative act, and what if they don't? Do you know how many head of the Unity Management Department don't even have high-tech equipment?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58689	Thank you. Replica number 8, my colleague Bulj, I apologize. We were registered at the first moment, so here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58690	Thank you very much. Ministers, you said the budget was a fundamental act as a local self-government as it has never been a fundamental act. But as far as we know, the representative bodies have, as colleagues have said, been described in the Constitution, and you are here to look at the body that is representative of the citizens, essentially creating it dependent on the other body that was executed. In fact, I would say, here is the time of ancient Greece, during the Roman Empire there were Senates, councils. But it seems to me that you've even moved on, that this is at the time of ancient Egypt, during the Pharaohs, this isn't even Lex Sheriff, this is more of a Pharaohic. This is Lex Pharaoh because it would just be so much simpler if you'd erased that representative body. That would be the most honest thing for you. By erasing the representative body, you would have achieved what you've copied from ancient Egypt. So we'd have the Pharaohs, the people who decide, your advisors and everything that needs to be decided. In this way, the representative body loses its meaning from a local committee that is always dependent on the executive authority, always this law that you have now given to the council and the assembly. I therefore believe that since the election cycle has already been completed, the election cycle has been completed and the election cycle has been changed, but the elections have already been passed under one law. So we have an existing state and now you're changing the law before the budget itself and you're literally shutting down the representative body. You've made that body literally gonna be mocking an executive leader with a representative body. And that's not even fair, that's not correct. First of all, to the citizens who chose representatives in the bodies of the council. So this would be the most honest thing to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58691	Next, dear colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58692	Dear Ministers, when I hear the words of the Sheriff, the Flex Sheriff, so here's Pharaoh, it sounds very nice to me, but it exudes the ignorance of how local self-government units function in the first place, which is the role of both the representative body and some mayor. And the essence of all of this is the existence of municipalities and cities in life for all of our citizens in two Republics. Since the construction of municipal infrastructure, from preschool, school education, which makes life, of all the projects that we like to talk about about the EU. So in any case, I welcome the first idea of adopting this law if it will reduce the number of crises in the Republic of Croatia. And I answered the word from a practical example, because in my city in five years there were two government commissioners, three mayors and five years absolutely nothing was done, no project was realised. After the election, the government got up. In each term of office, over 1,000 jobs have been opened, and I am talking about a city between 7,000 and 8,000 inhabitants. Therefore, the very idea of amending this law, in order to reduce crises and conflicts as projected by the 2013 elections and amendments to that law, where the representative body was waiting for the budget, was over 50 crises, i.e., repeated elections in local self-government units. Every reelection in any city has been lost for a year for the life of that city. Whoever's talking about some kind of imaginary 1, 2 or 3% case, and this is if 523 units of local self-government were over 50, then that's a significant percentage in one term. What does it mean, a year lost for that city or the community?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58693	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58694	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, secretary, you said, above all, that you wanted to approach the change primarily with the aim of guaranteeing the responsibility of the representative and executive body, i.e. their mutual relations, and ensuring continuity in work and banning the body of local and regional self-government. And you know yourself and you were the captain, and here you are, a colleague... It was, I can say a very good mayor in several terms, so you know it's only possible if you have enough hands in the representative body in the city council and the assembly and it's the only continuity, if we look at it in practice, that you can do something in continuity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We mayors were elected directly to the elections and we also went with some program. And through the budget of those four years, that program is being implemented. So, the program for which the citizens elected you, you try to implement that program. Of course, that is possible if you provide sufficient number of hands in the building councils or municipal or congregation. I think we should, what you said about the president's body being able to make amendments, and then through the amendments if the mayor doesn't adopt these things, it collapses. I think you should say what percentage. Because if we're planning a budget, we're responsible for it. There's something called fiscal responsibility. Every year, the mayor signs a statement on fiscal responsibility. Representative body, councilman, no. I personally have councils once every three months. Because there's no need to have before, it's all about the plan, the program. And there's no need to meet every month. That's why he'd look back on council fees. You've put on council fees because what's motivation, then, if it's once in three months Okay. [[Invader President: Comrade Kovac, time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58695	Thank you, too. Let's move on, dear colleague Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58696	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you have announced that this is a reform of local self-government. I don't think it's a big reform. Even though I also have to be a longtime community chief that what the lex sheriff calls, it's not exactly a lex sheriff. That neither the mayors, nor the commissioners, are protected by this very law so much because I think it only extends the agony of the executive government, because the budgets have to be passed anyway, because otherwise there is a disbandment of the representative section. And I don't see that there's any help, local self-government units, except it can take a little longer. Not in the first, but in the second, the leader can be disbanded. Furthermore, I believe that the appointment, the Commissioner, that he may be the head of the local self-government unit, is not good, especially in small units of local self-government, where the head is, so there is an administrative department and he is the head of the management department. And I think that this could result in very unpleasant political situations, if it were to be called Commissioner to the head. One thing, another, with this law, I feel that there is still a need to deal with the law on officials and tenants in local self-government units, because they depend a lot on changing government, there are a lot of problems in these units of local self-government, and another very important thing is what happened about buying a mandate, I think the law should be changed, i.e. That the mandate that belonged to the moment of the election must remain with that party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58697	Thank you. And the last replica of a esteemed colleague, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58698	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It seems to me that a number of MPs through this replica has shown that he has not even read the law when he claims that this law is colloquial we can call lex sheriff. I think that this is a good solution which in a certain way is one environment between what was in 2009 when the Council fell by not adopting the budget and in 2012 when we want to mention it, then the ruling majority here passed to me on the right, a law that came into force on December 21st, so much about when laws were passed. So between that variant that was made during the SDP government and that solution that was made in 2009 when they were first elected by direct means and by the election of the executive authorities in the units of local, regional or regional self-government, it seems to me that this is one environment. What I would like to say is one thing, so that any intention of calling the mayor, the mayor and the mayor would be brought down under that Sheriff's or Pharaoh's Syntagma, which my colleague Bulj says, I would pull one parallel. In particular, Article 105 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of two-thirds of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament may raise the question of the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Croatia and if, by two-thirds, the majority of all judges of the Constitutional Court that they have violated the Constitution or in any other way, they are determined that the term of office has ceased. You know that we here in the Parliament as parliamentary representatives can also and we had the case on Friday, the raised issue of the responsibility of the Prime Ministers and the Government as a whole when parliamentary deputies can replace the Prime Minister and Government, so I ask you to consider, until the second reading, that a certain number and a certain... councilman may raise the issue of responsibility of the leaders in the units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58699	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms injures the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58700	Thank you. It is, of course, Article 238(5). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I would only ask you to warn your colleague Bačić that because we do not look at the same law, we cannot talk about the fact that we have not read the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58701	A fellow coat of arms, and why are you doing this now? You understand the Rules of Procedure, you know it's one of the style figures that are used and I ask you, please don't make it like last week again we have to make warnings about it. This breach of the Rules of Procedure has its purpose to really when someone comes out of the context of what is acceptable to react, is this now really an abuse. I'm asking you not to. We're done with the replicas now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here it is, it will be a colleague of Tulio Demetlika on behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58702	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, secretary of state. Here is the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament at the 10th session held on 8 November 2017 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, first reading, P.Z. number 215 delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 26 October 2017. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal in question as a home working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the basic objective of amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government is to strengthen the responsibility of the representative and executive body, by creating a new balance mechanism between the two bodies, all to ensure conditions for local political stability and continuity in the work of the selected bodies of the local (regional) and regional self-government units. In the current law, not to adopt a budget and decisions on temporary financing is the reason for the application of the Institute at the same time as the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies who have been elected with them. This law redefines the institute and disbands the representative body in case no budget is adopted. It is also different to regulate the way in which the representative body is disbanded and the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies are resolved simultaneously, the conditions for determining the compensation of members of the representative body, the establishment of a single management department and the arrangements and conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Government's commissioners. The members of the committee in the debate agreed that it is necessary to ensure conditions for the successful cooperation of the representative and executive body in the budgetary process and to strengthen the responsibilities of those bodies. However, they pointed out that it does not have to mean that the proposed Institute of adoption and the proposal for a local budget will ensure this political stability, in particular in the process of submitting amendments to the budget where representative bodies are given a certain priority, to be considered as necessary until the second reading to consider and amend the budget provisions in a way that limits may be imposed to what extent the amendments may change the proposed budget. The Committee President pointed out in particular that these amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government do not address the issue of decentralisation of jurisdiction and powers on units of local and regional (regional) self-government. It considers that the Government should propose a new whole Law on Local and Regional Self-Government to ensure the transfer of powers and competences of State Administration's affairs to regional self-government units, in particular because we have units that have all the capabilities and capacities for these jobs. For the complete process of implementing decentralisation as powers and competences... it considers it necessary to amend the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the Law on the Management of State Property owned by the Republic of Croatia and the Law on State Property owned by the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Regional Development in order to actually implement the functional and fiscal decentralisation process of the European countries. Some committee members pointed out that this bill is a step back, that it is not a good solution for either the representative body or representatives of the executive and local authorities, and that it also complicates the entire system of functioning of local and regional (regional) self-government. The issue of council fees and the proposed solution is also highlighted, the issue of the Local and Regional Development Strategy (regional) of Self-Government, the issue of employment restrictions, local leaders after the end of the term of office, etc. After the discussion of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government by majority of votes 8 for and 4 votes against it, it decides to propose to the Croatian Parliament a conclusion adopting the Amendments and Supplements Act on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. And under point 2, any objections and suggestions and opinions which we will refer to to the applicant to be incorporated into the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58703	Thank you, too. Now we're moving on to the debate. The first reported on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Honored Vice President Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58704	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. That democracy is complicated, that democracy costs, that we'll all agree with that and the alternative is simple but ultimately costs a lot more. I think I start with this introduction with the intention of saying something after the very system of representativeness at the local level from the very beginning. Democracy requires everywhere at all levels the ability to negotiate, which includes, and then we come to, the first problems, which includes good politicians, which includes good parties, which includes a healthy political life. If we don't have good politicians, good parties, a healthy political life, any system at local or central level, at a national level, we'll actually come up with problems. As you know in those years, it wasn't just the declines to say so to the mayor, the new elections, as it was said right here cost but something else happened, it was also the proliferation that so called or the reproduction of lists and which have, which are different ideologies but they have one common name and one common name is called populism. You know one great politician said, there are quick, clear, simple and also wrong ways to solve, to solve problems. The pulsism that came about made us later and which of course has, which has come to the Parliament, made us actually start to think about some, how to tell the corrective, some laws that I'm about to say now were personally wrong from the very beginning. From the very beginning, it was unclear to me, and I remember voting against it back then, that was a long, long time ago. It was unclear how actually the mayor could change, it could actually change the council. So the council, the mayor stays and the council disappears. If, i.e. the Chief, i.e. in this case, the Mayor. It's all interpreted by ensuring stability. But let's try to pass it on to the Parliament now, so that's what it looks like. For example, to me here, because why would it be one big one, in the end it's all local, is that, locally, the collateral sacrifice of everything, locally to the individual, to the family, everything happens in, everything happens in a local way. I'm talking damage. Let's try to see what would happen if the system was transferred, such a system, not these changes, but the basic system which is basically these changes, the first law is whether, to the Parliament. So when the Parliament fails to vote the budget, it disbands itself and the prime minister stays. Or now, according to the new Parliament, when it fails to bring the budget to the table, disbands itself, a new assembly of parliaments is elected and eventually a new assembly of parliaments, before the new assembly is convened, the prime minister has 90 days left, has the right to pass the budget. One of the greatest flossules ever spoken in this House many, many years ago but perhaps it was worth it then, who knows but now it's not worth certain that God alone is above the Parliament. Above the Parliament is the government here de facto, above the Parliament is the Constitutional Court which in various councils does what they want, now we hope in this less or less, and even in the year of elections towards national minorities and in the Constitution it explicitly states that the government of the people and we are representatives of the means above the Parliament is and the people, so they have at least three other institutes other than God who are above the Parliament. In this case, however, above Parliament would actually be everything, everything would be disabling. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because it's predicted, it's already at the local level, and now it's predicted to improve that on a "local level" and in a way that the mayor can be more and this is where the word is said, protected from the council. I simply don't understand that the mayor must be protected from representative bodies. I understand only the sentence that councilmen must be chosen from healthy, fair, normal parties and until we have healthy, fair and normal parties, everything will actually be nakarad. And when we have a healthy policy and at a local level, then the mayor as part of that healthy policy will be protected. And even if we choose the mayor, I'd like to ask the parties and the lists if we want, which are proposed by the mayors, let the mayors who know how to do their job, yes, let the candidates run for mayors who know how to do their job, and the job implies one very simple thing, implicates the possibility of a settlement. You have to come to the budget because in the end the budget is for all citizens and not for the mayor and his option, the budget is for all citizens and must be made on the basis of the agreement and this agreement must last as in the serious countries throughout the year. When one budget is brought here in the Assembly and when with one budget in one city or one week later, the debate on the new budget must begin. That's why I used to be a skeptic about the basic solution, I'm skeptical about this solution, but this solution here doesn't make the previous solution much worse. It's just that the previous one was wrong in my opinion. And otherwise, there are other things in this law that are very valuable, and I'm going to say another eye that I'm critical of. And it's a matter of a referendum that's not binding. I never fully understood the meaning of a non-binding referendum except as pressure and as giving meat to say so, to the media that during that referendum actually live and together with bad politicians, bad journalists are destroying additional politics and in this case local self-government. In other cases, national policy. So the referendum or it's binding and here it's talking about a referendum that changes the area of the municipality, right, if it's not binding then I don't know what he's doing, it's a public debate, it's not a referendum. And otherwise, the debate about changing mayors, narrowing it down to 6 months, anticipating, has been up to now a year, meaning 6 months since the elections, there are both bad and good sides. The good news is that more opportunities are being given to citizens that if they are not satisfied with the mayor that they are replacing him and the bad news is that six months from the elections being held is still the atmosphere of the election and things that belonged to the previous elections are still happening, more than the things that the mayor made in those six months. If I understand this correctly, of course, about compensation for a member of the representative body, I agree that it is regulated in ways of regulation, it would be good to discuss more but certainly have to be regulated in some ranges, that there must be a legitimate, unpaid absence of work also to participate in the work of the representative body and it must be done and that's good. It wouldn't be bad for me to use the system we've established here, and it's a system for the councilman's absence to be sanctioned as well. And in the end, I want to say something about local committees. Article 16 amending the provision of Article 58 of the applicable law, which speaks of authorised initiators and applicants for the establishment of local committees, states that they cannot be, not organisations, associations of citizens but citizens and other bodies established by the Statute of municipalities, but no longer by the association of citizens who are expelled from these amendments. I don't think that's good for the development of civil society, and I suggest that the Proposer think about it. So in the end, I want to say this. With these changes, of course, these changes go directly in favour of those who, at local level, have authority in terms of mayors, strengthen the role of mayors and disabling what has already been strongly disabling before the role of councilors. In my opinion, we should actually go the other way, strengthen the honesty of the parties, strengthen the parties that really work for the benefit of the citizens, and let every thought that is a party and let everyone build that party and thus create an atmosphere that will not be brought down by the mayors and that will not lead to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58705	Thank you, fellow Radin, we have seven replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58706	Dear colleague Radin, listening to the debate on Friday exhausting, listening to what we had to hear today after the minister's presentation, I am not surprised that such perception is of politicians, mayors, all the others here in Croatia, among other things, when we send some information to the public here after this pay phone that doesn't hold water at all. You have compared the example of your replica to a lot of things, but an example of what it would look like if the Parliament were replaced if I understood you correctly, and the prime minister stayed. The prime minister is elected by this Parliament, the mayor, the mayors directly elect citizens by name and last name. And this law if it goes in the direction that I have already said to establish this relationship between the representative body and that directly elected mayor then it goes in the right direction. I'm not saying he's ideal and as mayor I'd still find hundreds of grudges on him. But this direction, if it goes towards that constraint of relations between the representative body and the commissioner, I fully agree. And why would I agree? If we're saying that corruption is some kind of greatest sin in this country, if some kind of syncope and that kind of judgment are the problem of this country. But this country's biggest problem is time, the time it steals from our people, our citizens. A time in which decisions are not made, neither in the city, in the municipality, nor in the ministry where for months, for years, there is waiting for the resolution of the property-legal relationship between the transfer of state land to the city or municipality so that it can be put into office, where for months there is a call for competitions for European funds and cities and municipalities believe me, I know most of all, all 520 hundred mayors, which mayors, mayors in the Republic of Croatia. Each of them cares about doing as much as possible in his four years as possible. And I don't need to be replaced by anyone. I'll take my own shift. That's what I told all of my people if we can't realize what we promised our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58707	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58708	I understood what you said, but my mindset cannot understand that it can be understood that it can be treated by the council as a set of people who blackmail the mayor. It's just that my mental circuit says this. We have to choose people who will be able to create a healthy atmosphere together with the mayor, which is what you from the parties are in charge of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58709	Second replica, dear colleague Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58710	In your discussion, you mentioned the principle of representativeness. Well, just these amendments and additions to the law will be the principle that was as much as there was and it has been more or less premeditated by the elections for the representative body completely disrupted. In fact, in the direct election of the executive chief, we don't have that principle. Because we're theoretically looking at anyone who gets 50% plus one vote is the winner of the election, otherwise it can't be determined. In that case, the election of the executive head has no proportionality. We have a sub-representation that is almost half, and therefore there is a council that must bring proportionality, power in a way that represents the largest number of citizens. We already have a situation now that in units of local self-government that don't have 20,000 residents we have so many representatives that the 5% story doesn't hold water. Imagine a unit with 11 members of the representative body. Well, I guess we understand that in such units, such units are 10% electoral threshold. Now watch one more thing. You mentioned local self-government. We systematically destroyed it for 25 full years. No one has ever thought of catching that job and changing it, because the story of the inability to participate citizens in the management of their own community has once been brilliantly amortised through local self-government. We have cases today that no elections for local self-government have been called in some cities and municipalities for ten or more years. Has anyone ever fallen hair off their heads for that? On the other hand, we have councils where there are five people, which means that the electoral threshold is 20%, which means that there is no proportionality or representativeness, and we're actually systematically killing the participation of citizens, and then we're surprised that we're despised and then we're surprised that we're creating elite clubs and local sheriffs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58711	Thank you. Nothing. Let's move on to the esteemed colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58712	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, my colleague, Radin, would like to refer to your statement when you compared the Parliament with the municipal council, the county council, and the prime minister with the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. It's not for comparison. It should once again be underlined that the parliament elects the prime minister, and the mayor, the mayor and the mayor are elected by the citizens, and it is for this very reason and by the proposal of this law exclusively responsible to its electoral body that means the citizens who elected him and who are the only ones who are authorized to call him off. Furthermore, you said that the budget should be an agreement between the mayors of the city council, the mayors and the municipal councils and the mayors and the county assembly, I would say that each head of the responsible head will sit at the table with his councilors or parliamentarians and bring the budget, only those who are irresponsible do it alone and therefore we have big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58713	The answer to my colleague Radin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58714	Well, the truth is that the prime minister wasn't elected by the people, but the truth in half, and he was chosen by the people through us, and I wouldn't reduce the value of the prime minister. At the local level, we have mayors who have been elected by the people, but I wouldn't so raise their importance just because with a very small percentage, they're often going out in the elections as you know they're chosen by the people. I see no reason why someone who has failed to give their budget in such a way that the budget passes on to the council, that this man remains still in place. I don't see that way, I think it's a disabling and embarrassing of the representative's body. I am for parliamentaryism, the prime minister has been elected by the people through us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58715	Replica number four, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58716	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Radin. This whole argument, I think that from your presentation, I've concluded it comes down to the fact that the Chief was elected directly, he was elected directly by the people, and the members of the council were elected indirectly, so they are on the lists as a representative body representing their political options, so they were selected from a list of proportional systems. By the year 2000 we had half there, half the councilors were elected by the majority system, half of them were chosen proportionally where each polling post was an election unit, and here I can see that you and I agree that it was good. Let's do it now, so let's choose, let each, let's have the same legitimacy as the mayor then these arguments won't stand. Yeah, they'll have special legitimacy. And now imagine you've made one thought experiment for me to do. In order to run for chief of staff, one must be in the area of the local self-government unit for six months, one can move to the area. I suppose the councilors they must be on election day, we assume that most councilmen can't be that they are people living in that area, but this chief he could have come six months ago and he could have called or come up on the idea to prescribe such taxes that your mind would fit and he would have nice councilmen living in that area for a long time would say, we disagree gentlemen, please go to new elections. These are the things we should call out for. Otherwise this legislative proposal, as you said, has a series of good solutions, but a number of things pay us around the single management department, about how I can form administrative bodies, so there will be new employment until let's say a provision about that, now I forgot. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58717	Let's move on then, fifth replica of the esteemed colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58718	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Radin, I didn't think I was going to replicate your debate, but something you said in some way moved me to say and force me to. You're right when you spoke of parliamentaryism and its significance and simply on the basis of what you said, I must sum it up in a few sentences and I must say that there simply must be a possibility of recall. And you know why? Because the impeachment is actually ultimate, so I'd say the only possible way to actually control the representative body over the executive authority in the local self-government unit is an empty rifle. The only impeachment as a threat to new elections is the real way the representative body of the unit of local self-government has in its arsenal to force the executive authority to agree on something. Because what are we going to get with this? We will get a variant in which the mayor will know that his budget cannot go through in its form, the mayor will only direct the budget to direct it because if he does not direct the budget, it only goes to the elections. After that, we will get a representative body that has neither the capacity nor the knowledge to adopt a budget in its scope that will only adopt it and only for the reason that it does not go to elections, this one will direct the budget not to go to elections, these will adopt it not to go to elections. And who will suffer for it? Citizens, because there will be nothing to execute over the next four years. What we get by this law is simply one status quo and one general stagnation, i.e. nerada and disorder in the field of units of local self-government where the representative body and executive authority simply cannot talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58719	The answer to my colleague Radin's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58720	Yes, I would very briefly, I would advise a party in power whether you or HDZ or some third party to finally approach a reform that will lead to a reduction in the number of cities and municipalities because already two-thirds of the work will be done, and then after that to work on themselves to improve, which is a little harder, but to work on making politics what it is, don't think I'm naive to talk, but I am really saying it because I really think it leads to politicians being people with a valuable system representing those they represent. So their value system must be the value system of those it represents. Of course, the Election Law must be amended, and I will now stop because the amendment of the Election Law should be explained for a long time. But what my colleague, Sagar, has said before at national level, and not only at the local level, would be one good trip in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58721	The last replica of the esteemed colleague Poduljnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58722	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Radin, you have been in the Croatian Parliament for a very long time and I must say that I did not expect to hear from you what you said was above the Croatian Parliament and the Government and the Constitutional Court, I am surprised that you did not count all the other state bodies, unusually because it absolutely does not stand. If you already wanted to say what or who is above the Croatian Assembly then you could only mention the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All the authorities referred to in the Constitution are limited in their powers. There is a division of authorities, there are mutual checks and you cannot say that the Croatian Parliament is under the Government or the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has its power to assess and decide on the constitutionality of the laws that we adopt, that is constitutional authority. But to say that the government is above the Croatian Parliament, the government that is responsible for the Croatian Parliament according to the Constitution. And you were in this assembly when countless times it was decided on trust or mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you were even in this assembly when the Croatian Parliament voted no confidence in the government. Do you need better proof that the government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament, not vice versa. If I do not accept even that you are so close to saying that the Government above the Croatian Parliament is those who would hear you and who would follow this debate and that, by chance, the young people here who listen to this debate have gotten a completely false impression, but I would not expect you as an agent with a very long standing in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58723	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58724	I'm always sorry to say that, but I'm sorry, Mr. Podolnjak, that you missed irony, somehow when I said that the government has more power than the Parliament, I'm sorry that you missed irony, when I said that the Constitutional Court made such decisions that some time disabling what we've done here, I'm sorry that... I missed irony, as I've been here for so many years in this place, you've been in college, so please also tell your students that such things have happened in Croatia and in other policies. And it is not only the Constitution above the Parliament, and the people are above the Parliament, for the people have chosen us. Most importantly, if you want to understand democracy and convey it to your students, I'm not asking you to get the irony to understand it, but I'm asking you to tell them that the people should be above all else and above the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58725	And the last replica of a esteemed colleague of Demetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58726	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleague Furio, you have been in this House for many years, and I have really been impressed by your speech today that you are a real idealist, but I will have to return you to reality and say that we are still living in Croatia and what you yourself have observed that political cultures in our country are simply missing and that with this political culture we are at a very low, low level. Developed democratic countries have been developing their democracy for hundreds of years, we have been in democracy for 25 years, and it is certain that there is a long way ahead of us to get to that desired level that you have tried to interpret here. I believe that the ministry in its desire to be just as successful cooperation between the representative and the executive body, to be stronger and responsible and one and the other bodies, to try to make these little changes one step forward. But what you expect will be a bigger dialogue, a more constructive dialogue, to agree on the budget, so the budget is the only document that is brought on units of local and regional (regional) self-government where someone is trying to speak with impeachment, but I will say by destruction and destruction cause new elections and cause a crisis at these local levels. You are saying that all this is done in favour of the mayor, so I will agree with my colleague Klaric when he says the mayors are elected in the direct elections, he is a representative of the executive authority and has the responsibility of carrying out the acts that the representative body brings. Now, the question of this cooperation is how it will be taken, depending on that political culture and on the development of the awareness of the political parties that it will propose, and that is why I fully agree with you. In large numbers, however, there are no units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58727	Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58728	Comrade Demetlik, you know I always agree with you. And this time, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58729	Thank you. We're going to the next club. This is SDSS Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58730	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I join my colleague, Commissioner Matjana, who commended the Minister's arrival to present this law because I believe it also shows respect for this House when the minister actually comes to the presentation of the law. However and whenever a law is changed that regulates local self-governments, whatever these changes are, they are large or small, they always somehow raise their working temperature in politicians and in the public and through the media, beautiful different labels, everyone has something to say, everyone shows interest and everyone actually thinks that he knows the best solution. We have a very large number of current and former mayors and mayors here in the assembly. We have something and local councilmen who will certainly know from their perspective something to say about this law. So I will try something from my perspective, let my own personal thoughts to contribute to my personal discussion and perhaps to finding a quality and good solution. Although this law carries more changes, it has more articles, so more changes. My debate will focus, my discussion will focus on only one of which we are already all talking about and this is about the relationship between the representative and the executive body. We all know what a representative body is, we know that it's one collegiate body that has democratic legitimacy, so it's chosen by citizens, on the other hand, that body makes decisions prescribed by the majority, whether it's ordinary or qualified, when the conditions are met by law. What is important to know about the nature of the representative body and what was precisely the last amendments to this law amplified, which is that a member of the representative body cannot be prosecuted or be responsible for any vote, either for an opinion or position. Therefore, in that part, members of the representative body have no responsibility. On the other hand, we have an executive body which is now actually made up of an individual, he only has the executive powers of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor even though he has deputies but they do not actually represent the executive body by law even though they are call them Colloquially because executive powers have only the mayor, mayor and mayor. He's representing his unit, doing business and fiscally, materially, criminally and in all other ways, he's responsible. And throughout the history of local self-government, we've been trying to sort out and balance their relationship. That's what he's trying to do now with this bill through the draft budget. The current law stipulates that if the budget is not adopted in the legal deadline that the government will disband the representative body, resolve the commissioner, appoint the commissioner and go to the elections. So, in the event of a crisis, citizens should decide who is right. On the other hand, we should understand the genealogy of the problem that we came up with here, why we are talking about it today and we should actually come back when we set up the Croatian local self-government, which is since '93. By 2009, we actually had a solution practically the same which is valid today if the budget was not adopted by the Government would be disbanded by a representative body but the Commissioner would have fallen because it stemmed from the political system at the time, the Chief was elected to the Council, drawing legitimacy from the council and disbanding the representative body because it would not have been, the budget was adopted. And the chief, in fact, stopped his mandate, the government would have appointed a commissioner. So, for the first 16 years of our arrangement of local self-government, we had this situation but in accordance with the political decision now that the representative body chose the commissioner and that he had drawn his legitimacy from the council and that it was appropriate for him. In 2007, we changed a law that actually introduced a major change, we no longer have a mayor, mayor and mayor who is elected from the council than he chooses separately, is elected directly from the citizens, has democratic, direct legitimacy, and in fact there is some kind of relationship disturbance. We have two opposing democratic legitimacys. The problems have actually become all right while it's good, while one is a political option. But here is the situation that, at the end of the election, when the election results are summed up, it can happen that the chief is from one political option and that the other majority is in the council, i.e. that the other political option has a majority and then there are conflicts. From 2009 to 2013 we had a legal solution that, if the budget had not been adopted, only the council would have fallen and the chief would have stayed that the only one under the Budget Law, the only authorised drafter of the budget was an option which unfortunately, in a small number of cases, was abused, that he would withdraw the proposed budget and thus actually force the council, challenges the elections but... The council while he stayed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of this imbalance in 2013, the law changed, and then we came to a situation where we have a legal solution today, so, in the case of not adopting a budget, one and the other body, in this 4 years we had about 50 choices, because of this situation and it wasn't just the wrong council, although in the most cases it was the council that didn't adopt the budget, but we had situations that such a political situation was that the chief would either not propose or withdraw the budget. Some time since '93. By 2009, there were some 35 situations where the budget was not adopted, I would add some sixteen situations when the chief was not elected, meaning in total some fifty situations where the budget was not actually adopted and if it were to challenge the elections, in those 16 years and then in this period from 2009 to 2013, we had some twenty situations when elections were caused because the budget was not adopted. And when before 2013, when the Croatian Parliament adopted this legal solution today, everyone was aware that there would be an increase in the number of elections, and indeed, some of these 4 years, there are about 50 choices. The legal solution at the time, and today's legislative solution has also been strongly attacked for reasons of political instability, that there will be an increase in the number of choices that are real and in fact why we drive the representative body into elections if, for example, the chief would not propose a budget. Why would the representative body fit, it was one of the constructive criticisms. Why is the representative body responsible for something that is solely guilty or on the other hand, why is the chief going to the elections, because the council has not adopted the budget and he has proposed a balanced budget which is developed, social, that is, according to the rules of the profession and in accordance with the Budget Act. This proposal goes somehow to the guilt team to choose who's to blame. If the Chief does not propose a budget, the election will be held by the Chief, and if the Council does not adopt the budget then only the Council will go. In my opinion, which model to adopt, so there aren't many models, four are models. Either it's just the council or just the captain or no one's going or they're going to go both ways. In my opinion, political commitment is the only thing here. So, the question of political commitment is what we want. If we want to reduce the number of choices, then make it a smaller number of choices, then this is the best model. Then I'm sure if you're sure if this proposal is adopted, we'll have fewer choices because early elections as such will be an exception. That's very likely. But will this proposal, this solution, resolve the issue of conflict, two democratic legitimacys? If we have a political cohabitation situation where one majority, the opposing political majority of the commissioner, will their conflict be resolved by this solution? So this is not just about the budget, it's about the whole number of decisions that go through the representative body. This solution will surely, in my view, result in council members starting a little financial education to try to influence the budget with amendments, that is very likely. The budget is a basic financial act and a political act, a picture of a policy, the chief wants to put into the budget what he has promised citizens in the programme, but so do the council members. On the other hand, if the chief doesn't have most of the council, they can obstruct, I don't know, real estate sales. He wants to sell some real estate, they don't want to put it in the budget. I can tell him, here we're talking about unique management departments, I can make a decision that he doesn't support that he's going to reorganize the city administration, so I can cause a very large number of problems that I've seen in practice, and so the question is really whether this solution will solve that conflict. It is, in my opinion, a key question where we must focus not only on the budget but on the whole conflict. Here, a co-worker in his replica suggested an interesting maybe solution that the ministry and the government consider whether to put some qualified majority that could actually run in some way bring down the Commissioner, I don't think it's a bad proposal and on the other hand, you should maybe leave the Commissioner an option when really cooperation can't come. I'm sure when he speaks on behalf of the club, he'll give some sorting solutions in other countries. In Italy, we have such a situation where the council can make a decision on the replacement of the directly elected chief and on the other hand he also has this atomic option to challenge the elections with his resignation. Not only does he go, but the council goes, too, if the council changes him, the council goes. Maybe we could think about liberalizing the impeachment. So to prescribe a slightly different procedure so that citizens can recall the chief they think is doing a bad job. So, I think the best solution is gone, the practice has largely shown that every institute can be abused and distorted. In my opinion, the best solution was what we had for the first 16 years when only the council was elected, and I think the Council chief would somehow be the most stable option. But I am also sure that after we have introduced this institute directly elected chief, there will hardly be a return to the old and we will have a constant conflict between the two bodies, i.e. two legitimacys in a small number of units when it comes to actually this political cohabitation, so when the Chief and the Council are politically opposed. At the end of this debate, I would just like to say something about other issues that this bill does not regulate, so it is not even the subject of this law, but it concerns local self-government. So, in 2015, the Law on municipalities, cities and counties was amended, where the Institute of Voluntary Association of Municipalities and Cities was established. I believe that this institute should be further promoted. The Ministry of Administration in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance because here it's been two years, we don't have any initiatives. And I don't think we should stop at that, but we should come up with some incentive measures to reduce the number of units voluntarily, although it was in one debate itself, we have achieved greater success by not having the establishment of new municipalities and cities since 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58731	Okay. Which one did you say you wanted? It's all right. We have five replicas. First Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58732	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Milosevic, you've said something that many of the current leaders of the local self-government unit are struggling with. You said the mayor, mayor or mayor corresponds fiscally, criminally, criminally, even materially to various decisions of the city. And it should be said that the city’s most important decisions are just being made by the municipal, city council, or the county congregation. Where in this story are the presidents of municipal, or city councils or county congregations. To this extent, we have been going to the Commission for Conflict of Interests in recent months to seek the delivery of urban or spatial plans to bring them into contact with the head of the local or regional (regional) self-government unit, forgetting the fact that this was a public insight, a public debate, and essentially brought by city council members, mayoral parliamentarians, and signing the same chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58733	Here you go, Mr. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58734	The truth is, I think you yourself have been in several terms of Mayor Vodice so you yourself knew what your job was. So, making decisions every day, you signed all kinds of responsibilities. And you know yourself whenever it was to say any kind of surveillance or application, everything was actually directed at the mayor's person, or at us. On the other hand, the fact is that we have one but it is normal in parliamentary democracy that the councilman must be protected from any responsibility for the opinion and vote, but the fact is that the council can actually vote on an illegal decision, therefore a decision that is against the law and that they will not answer for it but has designed a system of supervision which essentially neutralizes such decisions. I was actually going to put a focus here on whether this proposal that we have now, which we are discussing, is actually going to lead to us having no choice but to the representative body and the chief being forced to cooperate. But I'm only afraid for this quality of cooperation, because amendments can happen to disfigure the budget or that amendments will disfigure any decision that the Chief will not actually be able to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58735	Thank you, too. Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation of fellow Milosevic, you have made quite a return to the historical consideration of the relationship between the mayor and the mayor with the representative body, and the part relating to the former regime there in 2012 which was defined by the amendments to the law, which focused that relationship between the representative body and the mayor on the conflict over the budget. Unfortunately, just because you focused that conflict on a key document brought by the local self-government was released from sight everything else, and right then in 2012, the Law on Local Self-Government was changed in a way that practically made it impossible for the mayor to be resolved by the citizens because the conditions were such that it was practically impossible. The law left out the possibility for the representative body to initiate its decision the recall referendum mechanism because the legal provision was deleted, and it existed in the event of non-compliance, in the event of respect for the decisions of the representative body and material damage, and we practically lost two mechanisms that went towards determining a certain responsibility for which citizens would finally decide. And finally, in the last five years, we've been discussing only one thing with the budget how to solve this fundamental conflict between the representative body and the mayor. And we're looking for the best mechanism, and actually citizens suffer the most, because around the budget, which is the most important document, it can happen that this local self-government, for months, has no key document, development programs, capital investments and all that really matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58737	Thank you. Comrade Milosevic, well, but now on, come in during the replica, come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58738	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The truth is, in 2012, when the law was amended, the legal solution in question could have been called off by the representative body. But it has also been liberalised and improved a solution whereby citizens and the conditions under which citizens can initiate the impeachment, in a way that, when the signatures are collected, it is mandatory for the representative body to call off the referendum, which will try to recall the commissioner. Because we had the situation in practice, in fact, that the signatures were collected and that the representative body, without having any sanctioned sanctions, and now the sanction is disbanding, did not call a referendum for impeachment. The fact is, the recall didn't live with the citizens. The fact is, we've had two recalls so far and none of the recalls have worked. I say, now is the chance to discuss it, to have the government consider, the Ministry of Administration consider maybe liberalizing the impeachment or in some other way trying to find a solution to this conflict, although I'm sure, in fact, whatever solution we come up with, it's certainly going to show a lack of faith in practice, because unfortunately there's no ideal solution. In local self-government, they always find a way to actually realize their interests by misusing legal institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58739	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of the Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58740	You said we had two solutions and whether this political solution would solve the key issue. That's a fact. But we have two experiences. Two experiences we've had on the ground, or three even. We even have what you mentioned when the mayors and mayors were elected from the ranks of the representative body. So we have a law first on direct elections in 2009 and 2013. In 2013, only one mayor changed. Bandic was expected to win and will not have a majority in the assembly, so we could change him like that. But 50 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia suffered them. They all had crises. And what was the key to that solution was that they were all corners. The mayors, the mayors, who wanted to be replaced by the council, were re-elected. Our people are always right. He knows who's causing the crisis. So what goes in the direction of avoiding crisis situations, not wasting time, I assure you that a little bit of the captain, the mayor, is afraid of re-elections. In the sense that he will not be elected, if five, six years ago, he was elected by 50, 60, 70% of the vote. He's more afraid of the representative body. But if it's a representative body, that's what I'm saying from experience. Both me and the neighboring municipality of Chavela, Matulji, so here we have an example of Dubrovnik with those extraordinary elections there. It was always the council that generated not out of the city's interest, but out of the interest of coming to power from some position. So it's in the interest of the mayor to implement an operational program that went to the polls. And if it's not in the council's interest, it's in order to come to power, then it's something that causes the crisis, and every one of them, those from the caused crisis, they've generated failures for those they've caused. All the mayors and mayors were re-elected. Check it out. So we have 2 experience in practice, we have something that's been going on. Since the '90s and 2009 when the first direct elections were, now in 2013, when these changes in laws had just fallen into a number of crises throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58741	He's a colleague of the Klaric. Thank you. Mr. Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58742	Dear counterpart Klaric, I think we will all agree in this assembly that early elections are not in anyone's interest, especially not to the citizens, especially not in some local self-government unit, which has some development projects and is expecting maybe some money. I had experience working at the Ministry of Administration, where early elections were initiated, where contracts on development projects were worth almost the entire budget of that city that no one had to sign, because there was no budget, there was no chief, there was no council. Our projects have failed, due to early elections. So I'm sure it's in no one's best interest. However, if we have a situation, as proposed now, and what I wanted to set the focus of this debate, to move away from the budget, to have cohabitation, where we can't find a common language. Then what do we have left? It's easy when we have a majority or we have a constructive opposition. But if we have an opposition that's destructive, which actually only has an intersect to plant its legs. I agree that the person who's the captain actually just wants to realize the projects, the man is operational, he cares in the community. But if he has a destructive opposition, he may come out of despair, to say, I'm resigning or I want to make a choice because this isn't working anymore. I'm saying, we need to think about the problem from all sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58743	Thank you, too. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58744	Thanks to fellow Milosevic, you have given very detailed analysis, a review of the solutions that have been so far. And what's in common with all the solutions of '93. To date, elections were called after the budget had been passed. The only real change could actually be made is that because of not making a budget, elections are not being discussed at all, but that temporary funding is going on until the budget is brought in with one supplement, which is that in that case the chief receives an average salary in the Republic of Croatia, and council members do not receive fees until they are agreed on, so if four years are some four years old they are a city on a cold drive, those without income. And it seems to me that in that case we would achieve a double effect, there would be no choice, the budget would be made, it would be stability, if it wasn't brought there would be no cost of salaries and council fees and some people would explain why they couldn't agree, why the municipality or city or county was four years on a cold drive. It would be the first change of system, and then it couldn't be called a lex sheriff, nor a lex council, nor a lex Pharaoh, or whatever it's called, or a lex that maybe even a council and chiefs would call it like a rock group from Pula, but I'm not going to answer what it's called because it might earn a warning, so we would be lex because we couldn't agree on each other for four years about what kind of budget it would bring. And, of course, if there were a solution in the despair that one of them would say we're going to the polls, so if at least they agreed on the election, that's something, and that's the deal. Perhaps such a solution that I regret that we didn't remember him while you and I worked together to satisfy this current law all those who a) want to stay in power, b) want to stay in the council, c) want to reduce the number of choices and d) want to answer to the citizens why they can't do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58745	If you mention anything positive from Pula, you won't get a warning. Here you go, Mr. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58746	Well, my colleague Bauk, you always have some creative solutions and suggestions. If we go back to the current legislative solution, it was in one perhaps in the first draft, it was a later-missed solution, or a proposal for the council and the chief of staff to sign the motion towards the government to move towards a disbandment and resolution which I now do not consider to be such a bad solution, but I think that would also be one of the possible solutions, that the council would decide to go to elections, and that the decision would be co-signed by the Commissioner and thus resolve the conflict. I think the fact is, and that's also the practice of showing, that early elections don't necessarily have to mean a solution, but the same results can happen, so the chief remains chief, and most more or less are equal and we have another election. It's extreme cases, it's also shown the town of Vrgorac in which we've had several such early elections in these four years. Now they're stable, they're stable, but I'm saying they needed a few choices to get the situation up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58747	Thank you, too. A fellow blacksmith. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58748	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. So, in his presentation, Milosevic referred to that it would be better to go back to the old one, that the mayors and mayors were elected from the ranks of the representative body, which I think is definitely a step back for democracy because you can see examples in local elections when candidates who propose the party have a higher percentage than the party who proposed them in the representative body, and you also have candidates who have less than their party in the representative body and if they were elected from the ranks then they would choose more or less alike, those who can lobby more in their party, and that's not good because at the local level, people and their programmes are important, especially in smaller areas where more or less people know each other and there comes to express the quality and continuity of work as the fellow mayor said more or less all of them have confirmed themselves in the choices of their quality. And second, when you said that the council could make illegal decisions, I think that's not true. As you know, preparation for the city council is done by professional services which, once the materials are prepared, also go to fellow mayors where they are discussed and then come to the city council where they are discussed again by both council members and mayors all together and professional services, so that it may be difficult for a council or assembly to make some illegal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58749	A fellow Milosevic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58750	Dear colleague. I can mostly agree with what you said, but that would require a change of the Law on Local Elections and different rules for a political match and perhaps introducing a preferential vote. Has someone mentioned the election units less, and that citizens choose them by name and last name and their councilmen because since 2009 when we introduced the Institute of Direct Selection of Mayors, Mayors, the mayor has greatly personalized our local policy. I'm saying, I don't necessarily think that's bad, but I'm sure we're about to take this step forward and in terms of selecting councils so that citizens can choose who they know best and who they think are the best of quality. We don't need to doubt even the judgment of parties when drawing up lists but we don't need to underestimate citizens, they certainly know who's the best. What you mentioned about illegality or decision-making is the fact that the largest number of decisions on the city council are being made to prepare professional services and to be proposed by the mayor, but also the decisions can be proposed by the council. And believe me, when I was at the Department of Management, I saw everything, so I don't know the decision, for example, that the municipality will pay water bills to some councilman and I'm not going into detail right now. So there are very, very vivid examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58751	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Kuščević, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58752	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of the Assembly MPs and parliamentary representatives. Here, on many occasions, the Constitution, against the Constitution, was heard here, not in accordance with the Constitution. So I would like to really in the interest of proper, accurate, correct, true information from the Croatian public and Croatian citizens who watch, listen to this debate, so that they do not doubt that perhaps the Croatian Government, what kind of a Croatian Parliament is when it adopts some regulations that do not comply with the basic act, which is the Constitution. So, clearly, I am unequivocally telling, of course, this Croatian Parliament and the public that this law is in accordance with the Constitution, while encouraging the fundamental constitutional values of the units of local self-government. And now I'm going to do a little bit, not exactly quote the articles of the Constitution, but paraphrasing. Therefore, citizens are guaranteed the right to local and regional self-government through representative bodies. So my people with this are strengthening the representative body, with these amendments to the law we allow the representative body to modify the budget as promised, as their fellow citizens are on the ground. Therefore, the representative body strengthens the influence of citizens through directly elected members of the representative body, strengthens the conclusion, respects the system and further strengthens this constitutional provision of direct citizens' decision through its representatives in the congregations or city councils. This same article can also be directly involved in the management of the Constitution through choirs, referendums, etc. Well, we've increased the possibility of a referendum here. So under the old law, it was that a year after the elections could not be called a referendum for the recall of the leader. We've now reduced that year to six months. So we gave six more months to the citizens at will to decide on a referendum, a recall or something else. We have also enabled this representative body to disband the local committee, or a cotter, or a lower design unit, until now it's the head of the radio and now the representative body again. So we're really strengthening that representative body. But what's true is that fellow Milosevic said that this way the council members will force themselves to be educated economically. And that is, you've made an excellent conclusion, Mr. Representative. In this way, council members will no longer just sit in the assembly, observe, politicize that or for some, I would say incorrect interests to decide whether or not this will force them to educate themselves, to read little about what the amendment means, how the amendment can be handed over, to propose amendments as it is in accordance with the law and with the interest of their fellow citizens. We also had a question here whether it was in accordance with the Constitution for 15 days, 30 days. The law said nicely that, as a rule, public consultation takes 30 days. We've made 15 days, we've informed the Commissioner, she's agreed to it. And before that, 30 days had been the process of assessing the effects of the regulations. So all form is satisfied with ex-lege. As for the cost of these early elections. Well, that was 50, 52 I mean early elections, that's about 100,000 kuna, that's 5 million kuna, not much in one term in 4 years 5 million kuna. However, may only one million kuna that unit of local self-government have not invested in the account of temporary funding, at the expense of new elections, it is 50 million kuna and we have municipalities and cities that are not, or counties that have not and by 10 million kuna managed to invest because they have had extraordinary elections, these are then huge amounts, these are huge amounts for our units of local self-government, it's a big step back for their development. And that's why the cost as much as anyone in this assembly may seem to be, it's a very low cost, and it's devastating for a specific unit of local self-government. And well, we've heard here from several parliamentary deputies, this isn't enough, this is cosmetics, it's necessary to thoroughly reorganize and change the system. Yeah, it's necessary, but all these aren't the things of this law. This law is exactly what it's all about and this is everything else, thank God this government has dedicated itself to that and this government is doing other things. Here is the procedure of the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (self-government), here is the procedure of the Regional Development Act and all these laws will contribute to this very objective, which is to strengthen the units of local and regional self-government, their decentralisation. But that is not all, the government of the Republic of Croatia will prepare new regulations next year that will indeed decentralise both functional and financial units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58753	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. First Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We asked you a few questions, you didn't answer any of them, we were hoping that you would now answer in this intervention on behalf of the promoter, but you didn't, you just summed up what you were saying 10 minutes ago. So I'm going to ask you one question, and hopefully this time, it's not politicizing, it's not a conflict, it's simply to clarify how you feel that the role of a representative body in local self-government units is strengthened when you move the representative body of the local self-government perhaps its strongest lever control of the executive authority so far, and that's an impeachment. So far, the representative body of the local self-government units has been able to relieve the executive power of at least once a year, now it can't. If he doesn't adopt the budget, he'll change himself. After that goes the election, we have temporary funding, after that if we don't get the budget, what, we haven't lost three months now we've lost six months. Please explain to me how the role of the representative body is strengthened when the representative body can no longer do as it could so far resolve the executive power in the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58755	Thank you. Minister Kuščević will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Either we don't hear from each other or we talk in another language. So, the unit, the representative body, amends the budget. So, you're just looking at strengthening the representative's body through whether it can take down the leader or not. It is only one segment in the power of a representative body that must not even have it because it has not been chosen by a representative body but has been elected by the leader by the will of the people, in direct direct elections. With this, we have strengthened the representative body so that we can modify the budget and limit the leader if he passes that budget, then the government will disband only him and not the more representative body. Therefore, the head no longer has the authority to initiate the disbandment of the representative body which he has under the applicable law because if the head is playing with the budget, he withdraws the budget only disbands himself and not the representative body. Therefore, the representative body has received inexplicably greater powers in the process of budgeting, in the process of developing a unit of local self-government in the next year in projections for the next two years. As far as disbanding is concerned, whether the representative body has the power to disband or not, of course not because the representative body didn't even choose, the mandate of the leader stems from the people and we can talk here and we would like the debate to go in that direction to see how to liberalise the referendum because only citizens can disband it because only citizens have chosen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58757	Thank you, too. Mr. Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58758	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. I'm glad you tried to answer some of our remarks after your opening presentation. I do not know whether the Commissioner for Information has given you such an instruction or permission to carry out consultations with the interested public within a double period of time than prescribed by the law because, as a rule, 30 days for such an important system law must be applied if she has given you any of her steps of law, then I will seriously doubt the way she performs her duty. But let me show you how much this law, the way you're going to bring it, obviously with intent on how it will affect local self-government, just one example. Budgeting during November, December of this year. I'm familiar with the representative body... to decide on the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore possible that they do not adopt this budget with an obvious intention to challenge early elections for the head of the municipality and for the representative body by not adopting the budget. And so according to the current text of the law. However, if the law is passed there by mid-December, as the mayor of the municipality also intends to re-propose the budget, the rules of the game are now changing. If the representative body does not adopt it, it will now go to the polls only and the chief remains. So on this little example, you can see what rules of the game change within the same budget process. It's absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law. That in one process that is thirty, 40 days, change the rules of the game is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58759	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We also heard a colleague, Branko Bačić, say that the last time the SDP government changed it since December 21st, I mean, that law, therefore, I see nothing controversial about the law being passed right now. However, if the budget is passed under this current law, of course, the budget has been passed and thank God, the matter goes on, the units of local self-government go on. If not passed, then the budget will be passed under this new law if it is adopted in the Croatian Parliament, published in the National Journal and entered into force. So there's no obstacle for local self-government units to get a budget under this law or that law, but it's always a mess then, Mr. Representative. Because some bring in the 6th month budget, 7, 8, 9. I was the head of the municipality of 3 mandates, 12 years, I brought the budget 100 times in the 7th month, so we could say the same thing, in the 8th month we're passing a new law and a budget period of 2 legal regimes. So, I don't see any problems here at all, all the leaders, all the representative bodies follow this debate, follow the law and everyone will prepare themselves in accordance with their needs and adopt a budget according to the applicable law or new when it comes into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58761	Thank you. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58762	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, I'm sure by sending a proposal to amend this law, you've given us a framework in the assembly to discuss. You've decided on these changes that you listed in the explanation that you suggested, and that's the framework in which we can talk. You also accepted the framework that you went with the amendment proposal in line with what you experienced as a problem in the field. True, now is not the clearest thing for me given the percentage, the few percent of these divorces that have happened to what is the key motive. Well, I'd like to remind you a little, if 9 out of 476, how many units of local self-government, if there are so many each year, that must be a small percentage. However, I am now interested in a specific question, and I mentioned it today, I listened to it in the first network. So when are we really and in line with the reform and public administration strategy, in line with the programme reform plan, in general reforms in the Republic of Croatia, when are we really going to go into some law that will respect and start reforms and local self-government? Those are important questions. Because here's a lot of things, now you're talking about councilmen's fees that can't be more monthly than they'll be in session, so mostly in small municipalities we have now. We had County Road Administrations that have administrative councils that get fees, you know what huge fees? And that's where we live on councilors now and now we deny them the right or we force them to if they don't vote for the budget to disband them. You understand? There's pressure on people and it's getting harder to actually find people who want to run and go to such lists. In small municipalities where you have small and fiscal and administrative capacity. So, when are you going to deal with a real change that one mid-skiller has a salary of 15 000 kuna, and the principle of high in the neighbouring municipality where he volunteers for 2,500 kuna? That's reform for me. When exactly are you going to deal with it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58763	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. MP. Here's a few minutes ago at the pay phone, I said this wasn't reform law. This is a law that will improve a number of things in local, regional self-government and in some way force representative and executive powers to cooperate better, rather than argue, to cooperate better in the interests of their fellow citizens who chose them there firmly as a ministry, firmly as the Government stands behind it. As far as real reforms are concerned, I mentioned that it is in preparation, i.e. but in the procedure of the Regional Development Act which will significantly define, better define and evaluate units of local and regional self-government, their status of development, the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. And this ministry is doing a thorough analysis of the foundations that will go into a thorough reform, decentralisation, in line with the already accepted action plan. It is a job waiting for this government next year and I am convinced that you will have the opportunity to discuss it next year in the Croatian Parliament and support this great project. I note this is now not a reform law, this is a law that will fix, save, make better, efficient, improve direct democracy and these reforms will go according to the dynamics early next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58765	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58766	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor. So, enough of this political debate today, it doesn't look at functionality. They're trying to get under some different examples, and here's a colleague of mine talking about councilmen. We in the city of Djurdjevac for five years, no one receives the swearings of council fees, so all come and participate regularly in the work of the council. My proposal would actually be that the units of local self-government don't really need a professional but that they can, but that these jobs can be done voluntarily. And as far as these fundamental changes are concerned, you haven't actually diminished the importance of the representative body in my court, but you're actually where the mayor or the mayor don't have most of the council created one perhaps unwanted marriage. This unwanted marriage will then not break up in one step as it has been possible so far by not voting the budget, but will go through two steps and will again be the same result. Well, where there really are irrevocable differences so that each other doesn't make calculations that one doesn't want to carry them out and the other doesn't want them inside. Perhaps it would be good to introduce an institute where the mayor or chief of staff, by his signature, and most of the representatives in the representative body, members of the representative body could call for an immediate election. So, not to go through these two steps, but to decide because they see differences as insurmountable as in divorce. You don't have to talk about why and what, you don't have to make children suffer, you can install such a single mechanism and then make it easier to go out to elections and prevent the negative that could happen after the operations of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58767	Thank you, too. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58768	Thank you. Due to the minutes of the Law on Local Self-Government was adopted in December 2012, but the provisions concerning the budget applied with a year's notice. Therefore, it was related to the 2014 budget so as to take account of the minutes. So, Mr. Minister, it is, in fact, still a political definition of what will happen if the budget is not passed. And the fact is that any decision taken will be the fruit of a political decision that will have certain consequences at some point. The consequences of this decision will be such that there will be fewer choices, but that within the councils and mayors where there is cohabitation, conflicts will increase, not functionality. I mean, I'm not sure there's gonna be enough desire to force them into a deal. Since over the past few weeks we have had one debate about the way of excuses and dialects in the Croatian Parliament, I will finish my replica with a sign of freedom of speech in the local dialect. The minister will understand, and I believe he will understand defense associations, that he will not call in presses for it. There is, therefore, one municipality in Brač that has spent a year and a half years in business and had no budget. And after that, they had choirs and the chief lost it, age two. Then those who supported the chief got into a fight and then we SDP and HDZ had to help the chief. And then we came to this regardless of politics and budget that he and I together opened a monument to President Tudjman on the SDP proposal. Then there was the election again and again, you're an independent chief, and yet SDP and HDZ must support it. So much for politics in small ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58769	At last a little bit, Comrade Bauk finally a little bilingualism in the Parliament. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you are not convinced that the adoption of this law is in accordance with the Constitution or the European Charter of Regional Self-Government, so that these dilemmas remain. The dilemmas remain, and because several colleagues have already pointed out, I have to repeat this for the public, so this law is passed at some speed and the basic theme which has led to only 2% of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the past period. So, only a dozen municipalities. So it remains a bitter taste in the mouth, that it is brought with one goal only for one head of one unit, the regional self-government and one thin majority that it has, and that is not right. And I think it was necessary to pass a complete package of the whole law, all the laws that would regulate the area of regional self-government and implement real decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation, financial decentralisation and allow citizens to fully fulfil their rights because this kind of adoption actually creates the possibility that the law and called the local sheriff with a small group of councilmen, by accepting their amendment, does not carry out the will of citizens but actually buys their stay in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58771	Thank you very much. Minister Kuščević will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, Jovanovic, that it is in accordance with the Constitution and with all the statutes and I assure you. Here, I heard... that the Constitutional Court, someone that will apply for a constitutional assessment, will be happy to get it as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not just a few percent. That was 52 in office. It's almost 10% local self-government units. And I told you, it's about 5 million cost just an election organization. Election commissions, ballots and all that. If only a million did not spend that unit in projects, it did not withdraw from the EU, it is 50 million. And if it's 10, it's 500 million. That's half a billion, Mr. Representative. It is very much, even for the Croatian budget at the state level, let alone for these small budgets. Well, here's just a copy of Vrgorec. So 3 in the blockade totally, one election, other election, third election, then there's an extraordinary election. I'm sorry things like this happen. I believe that indeed, here it is with these amendments to the law, that we will avoid such situations and what my colleague Bauk said, that there will be cooperation down there, that both left and right and one other political option will be held together by the same stick, that they will bring the budget, that they will really think about the needs of citizens, not politics. Here's what I believe this law will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58773	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the clubs. Mr. Damir Mateljan, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Local self-government in Croatia as well as other EU countries is the basis of territorial policy, and the administration of the state, and indeed, it is the first front, therefore, of the authorities closest to the citizens. This government has stated in its pogrom that it wants a wise, efficient, depolitical, transparent local self-government. What, though, does this law bring us? This bill, at first glance, is quite seductive. And he's seductive, above all, to the leaders of the local self-government unit. However, in the end, this law is equally bad for both executive and representative bodies. And finally, this is a step backwards, in the development of democracy, transparency, efficiency, and, above all, the participation of citizens at local level. Why is that? So because the key to this law is, above all, the abolition, therefore, the tools, the pressures, so far, the tools of the municipal council, i.e. the executive body in the city or in the municipality, when voting the budget. If the representative body is not within the legal deadline, the budget would then be disbanded both by the representative body and by the head of the executive body proposed by that budget. The new legal solution, therefore, would be based on the law proposed today in the same situation as the elections only by the representative body. On this fact, therefore, this solution, both the media and the public through the media, has been participated as a reduction of the council's powers and thus a reduction of the influence of citizens' participations in creating local policies. And that's why, because of that fact, this law is also called lex sheriff alluding to an increase in authority, the power of the unit leader of local self-government in relation to the representative body. My colleagues and colleagues, democracy is among other things procedures. As such, it can be boring sometimes, it can be frustrating, it can be slow. However, if we want to preserve the transparency of local self-government, if we want to remove, as far as possible, any opportunities for corrupt activities, we must respect this procedure. The applicant's intensities are, as it stands in the light of this law, forced to co-operate, executives8i in representative power. There is no law, there is no decree, which will force political actors to cooperate unless there is a overlap of interest, unless there is a compromise in accepting these interests. Similarly, in order for political actors to negotiate, a certain level and political culture are necessary. How high, or how low the level of political culture is, I think we are the best witnesses, we representatives here in the Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, the legal framework relating to local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia does not cross, so far it has not prevented local self-government units from establishing joint municipal enterprises, to establish joint operational bodies. He didn't even prevent, that is, the local self-government unit from joining up. But it doesn't happen, because obviously there's no interest, and by law... You can't do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's important that whoever has the legitimacy of pressure on the executive government, they're citizens. Therefore, it is the citizens who need to press the executive authority on a constant basis, and the government is further reducing the influence of the representative council, which is already quite detronized, as legitimately, as the legitimate representative body elected by the citizens. If the proposer's intention was to have representatives of the executive and representative authorities agree, this legislative proposal would lead to quite the opposite effect. Because, therefore, the mayor will not have to consult with legitimately elected representatives of citizens to create this budget with whom he will agree. Whether it's some informal group of local businessmen, whether it's local club leaders, or whether it's some party party party structures with which then the head of the executive will negotiate the creation of a key financial document for a local self-government unit. So, instead of moving towards strengthening, the influence of citizens on local policies, we do this quite the opposite. Because in order for any local community, regardless of its critical mass, regardless of the number of inhabitants, regardless of the area, that any unit of local self-government would adopt quality development strategies would need a broader consensus and that would extend the social consensus that includes all segments of society, that would be the public sector, that would be the civil sector, that would be the economic sector. So the tendency in democratic Europe is that not only the executive and representative government participates in the creation of the budget but also the civil and economic sectors. And here we exempt the most important body, the representative body of citizens in creating this key financial document for a local self-government. What I think and as the head of the municipality, so as head of local self-government since 2004, I don't think it's the goal, is not the wish for the mayors, the mayors to be some lonely lawkeepers, sheriffs who in their hands have all the levers of government, or who themselves bear the burden of the challenges of the development of a local community. On the contrary, I believe that it will be much easier for executives to agree these visions together with their citizens, in this case with the elected representative body that these citizens have chosen. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed a solution proposed in this legislative proposal, and with a view to reducing the influence of the representative body, it explains the desire for political stability and fear of early extraordinary elections which are financially burdened by local self-government units. This kind of political stability at local level has actually flossule. Political stability at local level requires financial stability, and financial stability is not passed by this law but by the law on the financing of units of local self-government that was here in the first reading and in which there is neither d of decentralisation nor f of fiscal decentralisation. As far as savings are concerned, given the large number of possible extraordinary early sources and this argument is not valid, many of my colleagues here today have spoken because a dozen elections to 576 units of local self-government really can't be an argument that this will lead to some instability within local self-government units. In the same way as saving, we have so far ruled out a budget failure by law so far. So unless the municipal council or city council accepts the budget for the disbanding goes both executive and representative power and we have new extraordinary elections. Now only the representative body is going to the elections, but this new representative body that is formed after the new elections unless it accepts the budget, and it is very possible to do so, so after 90 days we have another election. So what we've solved for one election is now being solved for the two of us. Two can't be less than one or two choices can't be cheaper than one election. The promoter is likely to give him the impression of a serious law to classify a series of provisions that are like sacred guidance, therefore neither does this one benefit, but God knows what does not help. So the deadline for calling a referendum for the recall of the executive head from 12 months to 6 months is reduced. In eight years, there have been these two cases, none of which have passed, and that speaks enough about the effectiveness of the instrument. Furthermore, a clearer definition is made of a coat of arms which is stated to be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So every law including this law must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is at least clear to everyone. There are also clearer arrangements that can have practical applications such as council members' fees per session, absences from the work of members of the representative bodies, and a clearer, more positively, clearer framework for Commissioners' powers. But in a situation where we have a state with over 500 units of local self-government, when these 500 units of local self-government only have 15% of the incomes they make in their area, when these units of local self-government and fiscal and human resources are not capacitated to the absorption of European funds, when is the state so centralized and where are there such huge fiscal differences between individual units of local self-government offered by the government? The government is offering us a law that in 99% of all its decisions is completely benign not to say an unimportant one percent that is problematic, which is precisely this percentage that is subtracted from which the representative body is demoted by the impact of not creating a budget. And just such vague provisions, just like this vague law that most of us don't even see the reason why it's here, gives us the right to suspect that this law was actually written only for certain units of local self-government or to be more accurate, just for a particular city, for a certain congregation and for a certain thin majority in that congregation. And finally, I will conclude, once again this legislative proposal is a step back in the development of the democratisation of local society, a step back in the development of the transparency of local society and ultimately this law will lead to ineffectiveness of local communities. And of course this law is contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In fact, Article 3 of this Charter speaks about the concept of local self-government and I still have enough time to read it. Therefore, ‘under local self-government means the right and possibility of local units to regulate, manage, with their own responsibility in the interests of local public interests, an essential part of public affairs’. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "This right will be exercised through a council or assembly composed of members elected in free direct elections by secret vote on the basis of general and equal voting rights. Those bodies may have executive bodies which are responsible for them.’ That is exactly what stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So unless we are in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we are not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons, the SDP club cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58775	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Mr. Grbin's first call, you haven't even made it to the pay phone yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58776	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, but you're wrong. My colleague Matteljan said hello the moment I picked up the replica, I'd like to ask for precision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58777	Yeah, he said hi, he said hi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58778	My colleague Matteljan, before you took the floor, we had the opportunity to hear Minister Kustević and I think that something he said at the time was determined for the thought of which you de facto finished your presentation. So, Minister Kuščević is very clear and loud and it should be repeated and I think we should point out all day that the representative body must not have the authority to change the executive authority in local self-government. So for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ representative body, although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has a central role to play in managing units of local self-government, must not have a basic function, which is to oversee and replace the executive authority. Now that we consider what you're saying, it's time to call things a real name. And it is time to say openly that according to this bill, the City of Zagreb Assembly must not have authority in any way to question the power of Milan Bandic over the city of Zagreb. And that's the only reason for this bill. After this statement recently made a few minutes ago by Mr Kuščević, it is quite clear. And you know what I'm going to tell you? With that, I wouldn't even have a problem with having the courage to rule and say it openly. They say openly, we have agreed with Milan Bandic, he will support us in the Croatian Parliament. We will provide him with inability in the city of Zagreb. Say that, but do not plant such cowardly eggs on account of you ensuring most of Zagreb will cause damage both in Pula and in Umag and in Rijeka and in Primorje Goran County, both in Varazdin and in Čakovec and Split, etc.. Gentlemen, what you're doing is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58779	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58780	In principle, so for the political atmosphere, I said it was an important general atmosphere that was first created in this House. If citizens, therefore, but also if representatives of representative bodies at local level see the majority formed in this House then they probably think they can also paint the atmosphere from this home to their local communities and that's not good. And that's why it's very important what kind of message the government sends when it's coming true or when it's lying to most of the people in the way she lied to her in this House. And it is very important, therefore, that such messages, that the representative body cannot have an impact on the executive power, cannot therefore pass. It just doesn't stand, it's not in the spirit of democracy, it's not in the spirit of the Constitution and it's just not something that should be the rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58781	Thank you, too. Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow me a replica of Mr. Matjano, given that he has spoken a lot and I think that you are also the head of local self-government, so in a double function, that you have said a lot about how this proposed law deprives both citizens and the representative body, stronger supervision of the mayor, or mayor, and that it is contrary to the Constitution, and you have quoted the European Charter of Local Self-Government as talking about the responsibility of executive bodies. But I would say that you were the first step in that direction in 2012 when you were actually in the position of the majority party that influenced the law and the law that you then passed in 2012 was actually the first step in that direction. You practically quoted or said that only two referendums were held on the recall of the executive head. So, thanks to what provisions? By the legal provisions that you have entered into into the laws that make it practically impossible, not to replace the Commissioner but to initiate a referendum with 20% signatures at all, perhaps in a small municipality but in a larger city, it was now impossible. In any case, no major city has even begun to call off the process by collecting citizens' signatures. And you yourself have abolished your law the possibility of the representative body initiating a referendum on impeachment. So it was a legal provision from 2007 to 2012, you abolished it. So you denied the possibility of a representative body that you have just highlighted its importance launching a referendum on the impeachment finally decided by the citizens directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58783	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac. ... The answer, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Podolnjak, you didn't replicate to me but perhaps a colleague of Bauku's who isn't here. And I can agree with you and therefore I will always advocate those solutions that will strengthen citizens' participation. But then why are you passing a law that abolishes, so it's the only possibility that in a year, the representative body should call off the heads of the executive authority? So it's still the only way, so it's still the only instrument, the only quality and real instrument to recall the Chief. And why, then, this last tool, so this last weapon available in the representative body, why take it from him and why completely detronize the role of the municipal council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58785	Thank you, too. Mr. Kovac. And I apologize to Mr. Kovac, sir... I did, I put Mr. Dolnjak before you and he answered later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58786	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Mateo, I can fully agree with you, first of all, that the law is contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Now here we have a way to implement at the state level means one rule at country level and at local and regional (regional) self-government other rules, so at that level around the election. So it's the opposite, and I think it's funny in one hand. I also agree with what you said that, the minister said he was going to try to force it. I wouldn't use this word, because you can't force anyone to cooperate, especially if someone won't cooperate, because it's not where they want to build, but where they want to crash, and definitely with no law, you won't force someone to cooperate to cooperate. If you want to make some use of the citizens, which is what the minister also said that this law will improve a number of things in local and regional self-government, then he definitely chose the wrong law, because you know that our state is civilized, it needs to be decentralised by the local self-government unit only 15% of the income of those who collect in their area. So we need to do decentralisation first of all, because we have a number of local self-government units that are self-sustaining. There you need to make order, because citizens are not interested in how someone will choose or collapse, but what benefits they will have with that authority that is currently in power, how they will live and what quality they will find and what many benefits they will have in their city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58787	Thank you, too. Replication response. Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I also said in my debate that I believe that this law, with all the problems that local self-government has and which local self-government is holding back, that this law is unnecessary and that the government of the Republic of Croatia should be able to get the courage, above all, to go into structural, therefore, fundamental reform, so that this law is out of date, to make this inefficient system of local self-government, which has become a threat to social development, to change it and make it more modern. To make it more efficient and more open to the citizens. Therefore, there is no reason for local self-government leaders, i.e. local self-government to shut themselves down and create some kind of body that will be out of the reach of will and view citizens. On the contrary, the purpose of local self-government is to open up to citizens and allow, as large and as direct as possible, to involve citizens in local politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58789	Thank you, too. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58790	Thank you, Chairman. You spoke a lot of things about how important it is that, through the strengthening of representative bodies, we strengthen the influence of citizens on making all decisions concerning their lives. But then we must encourage the citizens to go to the polls. In order to get out more elections, they must trust institutions and thus have faith that they will allow decisions to be made, which will not be affected in some gray areas. We also have an action plan to combat corruption for 2017, 2018, which has 7 objectives, strategic objectives. One of these 7 strategic objectives is to strengthen the integrity, accountability, efficiency of officials in units of local and regional self-government. Do you think these changes that are now going in that direction and whether it will increase citizens' confidence in institutions at all? I'm afraid not. Namely, everything we bring now, you said yourself, goes in the direction of one congregation, one leader, and we saw it all. So, recently, this assembly was formed, in a way that created an unencipated coalition of one man, who wanted to remain mayor, mayor, in this case mayor of the largest city in Croatia and created his coalition with an ultra-conservative group that did not even reflect citizens' interests in changing the name of a square. And now, through this law, we will have the opportunity again to have some local powermaker, the sheriff, as citizens say, create a network of some of his key players of the winning coalition of interest and thus help them remain in power. And the question is, is that a citizen's interest? Well, then all the masks fell. So this isn't the lex sheriff. This is Lex Sheriff Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58791	Thank you very much, Mrs. Juričev Martinchev. ... It's Mateo. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So that very simply, therefore, any law that goes towards the degradation of the role of the representative body, therefore, the influence of citizens cannot be a law that goes in terms of reducing possible corrupt activities. And citizens at local level first feel what kind of politics it is. And if citizens at local level feel corruption, they are demoted. They just don't go to the election and they don't get involved. By not including citizens in the election, we get a non-quality government anyway. Such an unquality government, then it can also cause blackmail when it comes to budgeting, can cause, therefore, that local self-governments are then unskilled, that they are then unsuccessful. So it comes down to the fact that the more people we manage to involve in creating local policy, because that's the only way we're going to get quality local policies, which will then be less polluted by corruption than that is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58793	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martinchev Yurichev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58794	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow Matteljan, you said in your debate, that these amendments and additions to the law to the ghouls, the main tool of the municipal, or city council. It's not a budget, to trigger early elections. The main tool, I guess, is being realized, in order to achieve the main goal. And the council's main goal should not be to bring down the leader of the local self-government units. The main goal, when it comes to the budget, is to adopt a real developmental, socially sensitive budget. And that can still be done through the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58795	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58796	Mrs. Martinchev, we didn't get along well or you didn't hear me. Because I just said what you just said, and that is, the influence tool of the presidential body on the head of local self-government, when it comes to this key document of the budget, is no blackmail. So, creating a budget can't be blackmailed, because the budget itself isn't just money. So, out of that budget comes municipal policy. And local policies are communal. Citizens must be involved in the creation of a budget. So whatever we think of these citizens, whatever we think of that city or the municipal council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58797	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58798	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Matteljan, I don't know, do you remember how much attention then both MPs and the public caused the idea of so-called. revolving the door in the central authorities of the state administration. Somehow, underneath the radar here in this law, it seems to be going through the same thing just locally. Therefore, Article 53 of this proposal suggests that units of less than 3000 inhabitants, units of local self-government can set up a single administrative department, so they no longer have to. In other words, I can close it. They are also given the opportunity to open other types of administrative bodies. And in Article 53a. in paragraph 2, it states if the need for resolution arises from a change in the structure of the administrative bodies of units of local self-government, i.e. if such conditions arise that the head may then resolve the head. So I don't know what's going to happen to all the heads of the single management department in small municipalities, I don't know what's going to happen. Most of them have medium professional equipment, they don't even have higher professional equipment. And I don't really know how it's going to be possible for every new leader to come here, that just people so far who find a change of design move and bring new people. I say when it came to the central authorities of the state administration, it was very opposed, and here in the units of local self-government, that possibility opens up. And I don't think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58799	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague is one of the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and is also the principle of subsidiarity. So, anything we can solve at local level why we should solve at national level. Part of this law is actually administrative centralised. So, the Department of Administration imposes on us, so council members must be paid at the session, not monthly. So what you're talking about, too. So, I think that, that these things are mature, well-accompanied local self-government can solve for itself and that there is no need for national, for the central government to interfere, so in these matters at local level. Because, in many ways, that is exactly what it means to be insulting, so this principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58801	Thank you very much. Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mateljan, I listened carefully to your presentation and in one part you said that by law or decree you could not force the co-operation or representative body, but you also said the units of local self-government and regional mutually. And that's part of where I have to say I agree, because you also later said that if there is a common interest, if there is a compromise, that still until this cooperation is achieved in some way. But you said that this lack of political culture, and we see that if we have in the county, I don't know the mayor of one political option, in the municipality of the other, on the state third. There's just no cooperation here. However, we have experience from Europe that teaches us that quality laws can achieve cooperation. I'll just mention a few examples, so you don't say what every municipality wants its municipal enterprise, each municipality wants its industrial zone. But also Europe has made us a law that says we have the establishment of LAG that forced us to make five, at least five units of local self-government a deal to get to what I'm going to tell the financial stability you mentioned, i.e. to the insurance of financial resources. And that's what we expected. I am pleased that Minister Kuščević today said that this is not a reform law, i.e. reform change and this coincides with what we have said is actually an administrative decision that will regulate only the way in which the executive and representative authorities are resolved. We are practically confirming with this law, we have received nothing from one and decentralisation and nothing in order to create a more efficient, efficient administration and one quality cooperation not only at the level of the unit of local self-government but also between the units of local self-government and the county and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58803	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Demetlika, I agree with you. So when I talked about the fact that cooperation cannot be imposed by law and decree, I meant that it cannot be imposed exclusively by law and decree and that what is in the law does not necessarily mean that this cooperation will be achieved immediately. So these are primarily interests, so the compromises of local self-government units in terms of whether they will unite, whether they will unite in synergy their unique administrative departments, communal companies and the like. I know that in Istria, there are examples of good practice in the coast. But unfortunately, the atmosphere of Istria and the atmosphere of the Croatian coast is not the atmosphere that prevails throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58805	Thank you, too. Last line, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mateljan, you say this is a step back in the democracy of the Croatian local self-government and its development. I don't agree with you here. I think that when you insist that, to remain an existing provision under which the budget collapses the city council and the budget, you are in fact underestimating the role of the city, municipal council and the county council. I mean, I'm not going to say that she's a narcissist, but it's the wrong approach in which we hold that through the collapse of the mayor by not adopting the budget, underestimating that basic, financial document of the local self-government unit, we're going to assume the development of a local self-government unit just to bring down the mayor, the mayor or mayor. When from your mouths, not from your mouths, but from your colleagues Jovanovic just before you claim that this is actually Lex Sheriff Bandic, then you are actually showing how much defeat hurts in Zagreb, so now that you want to sacrifice the development of the city of Zagreb in the following year to bring down Bandic. On the other hand, I argue that where and where better is this variant in which we allow the council to bring the budget exactly as the council is, if we claim that councils and councils represent the interest of citizens and that practically citizens across the council exercise their right to local self-government. Here in this way it disables,... that when it considers that the budget is not to his extent to pull it back and thus destroys the council and itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is not a step back, in my opinion this is a step forward and I hold that the strength of democracy is a unit of local self-government because it forces two pillars into units of local self-government and that's... on the other hand, the representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58807	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we don't insist on leaving a provision that is so far rather than if a better provision were offered, we would accept it. And this provision is no better. We believe that the fairer provision that stands so far is that if the representative body does not vote on the budget within the legal deadline, that the one who proposes this budget is also the one who votes in the council for the budget, or in the assembly, and if so does not agree, to go out together on the political local market. Such a solution offered by this bill can only lead to unquality budgets in my opinion. Therefore, these amendments will lead to the fact that this agreement, which has been forced by the executive authority and the representative body as a bomb, will explode after a year or somewhat shorter after the budget has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58809	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the clubs. HDZ Club, Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58810	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government will support the HDZ Club. We will all agree that there is a need to ensure the conditions for strengthening the responsibility of both the representative and the executive body. The problem of budgeting in local self-government units makes it difficult to function normally and to block it. During the period from 2013 to today, we heard the disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief or mayor in 52 units of local self-government and the institute was applied during the term and twice. We can agree here that this shows certain shortcomings in the system and the necessary revision of the relations between the representative and the executive body in the budgetary process. We will also agree that it is good for this law to go in two readings to the Croatian Parliament, so that comments and proposals can be reconsidered so that they can be found in the final draft of the law and that the law can be as high-quality as possible. It's about changes that have been discussed a lot lately and we see criticism today. The amendments to the law have caused heated reactions that presented to them that the mayors, mayors and mayors would become immeasurable, to become the rights of small deities, untouchable and so forth. In fact, it is not true that this law weakens the role of a representative and strengthens the executive body and we are going to show it right now with the articles found in this law. It was these amendments that increased deadlines for a referendum on the impeachment of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and his deputy mayor. Furthermore, the behaviour of the head of the body will no longer be able to change in the election year. Furthermore, the amendments oblige the mayors, mayors and mayors to propose a budget. In relation to the so far authority of the municipal chief, the mayor for the disbanding of the councils of the local committee, this law confers that authority on the representative body which is also authorised to call elections for members of the local board. As regards the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, this law lays down the obligation of the head to propose the adoption of a budget which is not prescribed by the applicable law. And the consequences of not proposing a budget by the same budget are also prescribed in the light of their resolution. In the event that the proposed budget is withdrawn before the adoption of the budget, it shall not propose a new draft budget to the representative body within a time limit allowing it to be adopted in a timely manner. In the current law, not to adopt a budget and a decision under temporary financing is the reason for the application of the Institute at the same time as the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies who have been elected with it. This law redefines the institute and divides it into two steps. So the first step is to disband the representative body and the second is to disband the representative body and resolve the leader in the event that after the early elections and the newly elected representative body does not adopt a budget within 90 days. This law also aims to achieve the rationalisation of the system, so it is proposed to introduce order in payment of fees for work in councils or congregations. They will be paid only at the session in the future. Furthermore, it is possible for more units to form joint administrative departments such as accounting independently of spatial connection. In relation to early elections, if the deputy acting as municipal chief, mayor and mayor ceases his term of office, the current law stipulates that early elections will be held in the unit. However, these amendments and additions will not take place if the deputy acting as municipal mayor, the mayor, ceases 12 months before the regular elections are held in order to avoid the possibility of frequent elections and since regular elections are held in May every 4 years. The criticism is that, following the proposed changes in the event of a budget not being voted, the Assembly or the Council shall be disbanded. While the mayors, mayors and mayors would stay in their seats and the representative body would be reduced to a ficus that becomes a kind of hostage of the executive authority. It is believed that such a law would apply one rule at country level and quite different at local level. Namely, if the state budget is not adopted at Parliament level by the end of the first quarter of the current year, the parliament and the government will be disbanded for the year. However, once again I will underline and point out, it is the parliament that chooses the government that can vote their trust and mistrust unlike the mayors, municipal mayors and mayors who are elected directly to the elections and are elected solely by citizens and I am of the opinion that we in the HDZ Club are therefore the only citizens who can seek the opposition of the same leader. In relation to the duration of the term of office of members of the representative bodies, the applicable law stipulates that the term of office of a member of the representative body of the local self-government elected in the regular elections is four years. We know very well that, at the same time, the Law on Local Elections is prescribed that regular elections for members of representative bodies and elections for their leaders are held simultaneously and that third week every fourth year, so that this law wishes to bring this length of term of office of members of representative bodies with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. As regards the administrative bodies of the units, the applicable law provides for an obligation to establish a single management department. These changes and additions even to those units of local self-government, up to three thousand inhabitants, abolish this obligation and, independently of the number of inhabitants, are left to the will to set up a single management department or a larger number of administrative bodies. There is no criticism that this will result in, I don't know, a greater number of arrests and so on since these units of local self-government as well as all others have limits that they can spend on their employees' personal incomes. Also, if someone wants to get caught, he's called the headmaster or someone else is going to hire him. This way we can only get the quality of work because there are certainly other spectrum and skills for someone who manages accounting in the local self-government unit or releases solutions on municipal contribution or prepares legal acts for municipal or city councils and the like. As regards the Commissioners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the applicable law does not provide for any conditions for its appointment and resolution, and the powers themselves are laid down in a very narrowed form. However, this law lays down conditions for the appointment and resolution and regulates its powers in more detail. The authorising officer for the appointment and resolution of commissioners shall also be established, that is, the central authority of the state administration responsible for local and regional, regional self-government. Once again, we can return to the budget, when it comes to the mandated proponent of the budget, he could directly cause the Council to disband i.e. congregations along with their resolution. This law makes it impossible to make such a scenario impossible since members of the representative body can propose amendments to the draft budget and adopt these amendments. This is why the leader is obliged to implement this and such budget. It would be good, and we saw a proposal from the Assembly Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government that in some way the restrictions to which amendments can be amended by the proposed law, although we know that there are items of budget that are strictly intended and certain that, regardless of the council's wishes and proposals, even if they are majority, they will not be adopted if otherwise, one dedicated income would be directed in another direction on the expenditure side of the council. If the head does not withdraw the draft budget then the Council will. The assembly to adopt the amended draft budget exactly as requested by the councils and councilors. If it does not agree with the amendments and withdraws its draft budget, the result is only the resolution of the head rather than the representative body. The objectives that will result from the new solution set out in this law are aimed precisely at continuity in the work of the local and regional (regional) self-government system, strengthening political stability and rationalisation of the system. The HDZ Club supports such a proposal, and if, as I said, it is in the first reading and it is certain that both the Secretary of State and the Minister will record all of our proposals and remarks and we hope to find ourselves in the final draft of the law because indeed both leaders and council members need and must answer to their citizens who have led them to these places, and not to each other. When everyone has that in mind, there will be no political corruption, no political manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58811	Thank you very much. First replica, we have eight, first replica Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58812	Dear colleagues, with all due respect, you have received one thankless assignment from your party, which is to defend something that is indisputable. The Council and the Head of Local Self-Government shall be selected by two different systems. The Council by a proportionate system, the leader of direct elections. Who's more powerful at representing the citizens? They represent the citizens equally. Two different systems were chosen and now there was a balance between the two bodies, the existing law established that balance, it exists. If a budget is not put to the vote, let the mayor think what he will propose, and some councilmen think whether he will refuse or accept it because their conflict means elections for both. In that order established by the existing law, the government is making a mess. It balances the imbalances. And he says the leader is right. So if you don't get the budget, he doesn't go to the election, it only goes to the council. So we had a balance, and now we're introducing imbalances. And you have to defend it here, and that's why you're reading that whole report of yours like we're in a mere school, because you can't convincingly defend it with a speech. You can't, because it's indefensible. Well, you read it like you read it in a mere school. Okay. So the government is putting a mess in order. I don't know why. If your idea or the idea of the government was to enter stability, then you should change the whole way of choosing the leader of local self-government. Like what? that the mayor is elected from the council, because then we have stability. Then that political option, which gets most of the council, will choose... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58813	Thank you, Mr. Stazic. Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58814	My colleague, I feel very good about this subject. For 12 years, I was mayor of the city of Vodice. This isn't something I watch or read from a side like you. In these very changes and additions, the government wants to introduce order and balance. The mayor, the mayor and the mayor are elected by citizens. And they're responsible to the citizens, and they don't choose a representative body, not the municipal council, not the city council, not the county council. And this is exactly what the order is now being introduced. We can talk about it, maybe it should have come to that. That's another story. But when the city council, or municipal council, elects a leader, it can also replace him. When it's elected by citizens, they can only call it off. And this introduces order.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58815	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58816	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here's precisely because you were mayor, a few specific questions of things, so here, let's try to clarify, and maybe help ministers and assistants pass a better law. So first of all, what you mentioned, which was also on the Committee on Local Self-Government, is these amendments, in which percentage, in which way, how do you know, when you choose local leaders, you go out with some program, an election program, that you try to do in those four years and you realize. And so you're putting it in the budget. And there's also another thing called the city development strategy, where all capital projects are numbered, which makes, not only means politics, but a complete society in that area and where all capital projects are important for the development of that community. So, in my opinion with these amendments, it's practically, it would be blackmailing maybe councils, mayors, and eventually the mayor can say, that I'll accept, it has budget rebalances next year. We didn't make China because eventually the mayor is in charge of budgeting. He prescribed, as I said fiscal responsibility. The council doesn't sign anything. Example means, council, I have in three months one. There, the minister said, would encourage councilors to education, to a similar extent. Well, as you'll be in 500 kn, that's where millions of fees are going. So he should've evened out the fees. For example, with the President of the Council on the budget of 150 million kuna, there is 1100 kn fee, in other cities with a smaller budget there is a nice decent salary. He doesn't have to do anything else. Also, what I was about to say is, you should be around the president, the vice president, the vice president brother, your brother, they don't do anything anyway. You know that yourself. They're here, the president's the one who decides. So these relationships should... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58817	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58818	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kovac, this observation of yours as well as this replica you referred to during the opening presentation of the minister is something I truly believe the Ministry, Minister and Secretary of State will consider. Indeed, mayors, commissioners and mayors sign a declaration of fiscal responsibility. The question is where is it, where are the councils, or congregations, which are essentially the ones who created and gave the final word to the budget. When speaking among other things about the strategy of one city's development, it should not be forgotten that the strategy also brings this council, i.e. the representative body. So it would be normal for those who have adopted that strategy to propose amendments to be in line, not contrary to the strategy. But in any case, with your comments, I agree, and I believe that until the second reading, there will probably be some of that in the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58819	Thank you very much. Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58820	Dear colleagues, I am a little bit angry at the debate when it comes to this law, only as a model of how to replace the Commissioner or how to replace the representation body. You've been called here to defend something that's indefensible, I'm just the opposite, because I've been and am the leader of a local self-government unit, so I know well how it works with all three variants. From when the city council was elected, then direct elections, 1st, 2nd, and now these 4th. So, what our public doesn't know, and I can see that there's not a lot of MPs here, that the frameworks are already in advance. And I think that in Croatia, if everyone had control, like the leaders, the local self-government unit, of the state audit, of the Law on the municipal economy and the dedicated spending of funds. Of the very default variables that are related to both school and preschool education and all that units of local self-government do. Personally in this law, as well as in all other laws relating to cities, the municipalities have a problem with the number where something is constantly placed within the population. Because we have cities and municipalities that have 6, 7, 8 thousand inhabitants, and they have a budget of 70, 100 million kuna. And they have 4.5.6 companies of 5.6 kindergartens, 2, 3 elementary schools, high schools, and I don't know what they're all doing and they're putting it in the context of a city or a municipality that has 12, 13, 14000 inhabitants, and it has 5, 6, 7 million budgets and there's not all that I'm saying. I am saying this in relation to the responsibility of this unit leader of local self-government from the president of the tourist community, from the municipal society assembly in its field and its responsibilities because it corresponds with its name and last name in that part of the representative body. And I think I can see from this debate that's being held here, that many, and especially when it's being transmitted here from Parliament and our citizens, are very confused in the sense that it's the head of the local self-government unit. For all of them, it is a job and obligation within four years to do and to accomplish something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58821	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58822	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Klaric can only agree with everything you've said. Namely, so do I, but I'd say like most colleagues who have either been or are still the leaders of the local self-government unit, they feel very good about this subject, and I certainly won't use the word "lex sheriff" for this law. It's funny that those who ran couldn't see it as a sheriff or anything like that. But I'd just say and tell them I want them to try so they know what it's like to sheriff a local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58823	Thank you very much. Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said in your performance that the proposal for this law is strengthening the influence of the representative body and that you argued that the deadline for the referendum is down from 12 to 6 months. I would accept it as an argument to strengthen the role of the representative body if the new law went in the direction of a solution as Mr. Podolnjak said, which is that the representative body would be the one who could call a referendum on the replacement of the commissioner. Furthermore, as an argument you used the fact that this law offers a solution that unlike the present proposal, the representative body is that it can reduce or abolish local committees or local self-government. What local self-government? What is local self-government in Croatian law today? It is the same argument as you said that Minister Butkovic will strengthen his position so that he manages the... fishing zone of the Adriatic. That's the same argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58825	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58826	Thank you very much. Comrade Mateolian, I said that it was basically an increase in deadlines that could be called a referendum. The behaviour of a leader where he will no longer be able to change in the election year and the obligation to propose a budget not to contribute to the fact that this strengthens the unit leaders of local self-government, as well as that, moreover, the representative body has now received some authority that the unit leader of local self-government has so far had. We all agreed that this is not a reform law, nor that it brings something big, but the fact that this is the stronger mayor, the mayor or the mayor, and the weak representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58827	Thank you very much. Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said very clearly on behalf of the club that the attitude and the club and the party that the executives were elected by citizens and citizens are the only ones who could even relieve them of their duties. I can say that the concept is something that can be very well defended, absolutely standing behind it. So the concept doesn't make any difference. This solution to me is personally much more acceptable than the solution that now exists in the budget. However, we are now coming to the key issue, if this is why you did not question any solution that has been strengthened by the SDP before you, has made it difficult for the referendum on the impeachment of mayors and mayors in such a way as to practically require 20% of citizens to initiate what is practically impossible in the larger local self-government not to talk about counties, clean theory and to make a decision on impeachment for the majority of citizens who have come out, but a minimum one-third of voters to that stage are almost impossible to come and to make a decision at all. And finally, theoretically, yes, there were two referendums, we're saying theoretically it's possible, but we know that it was twice backwards I don't know how many years. And the second solution that you had in the original law SDP kicked him out in 2012, which is the solution that the representative body can initiate a referendum in which citizens decide if the mayor in some way does not execute the decisions of the representative body or cause material damage. These were the provisions that HDZ put into the original law, the SDP moved out, and you didn't return. That's the question, why don't you return the provisions that were yours in the original law if you're conceptually standing in a referendum in impeachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58829	SDP's at lunch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58830	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Podolnjak, indeed, all of this is something to think about, and I believe that since this law is in the first reading, surely the Proposer will consider your comments and suggestions and possibly what is real and include. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58831	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58832	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. So to clarify perhaps, we agree on this part that the minister has passed a legislative proposal here to the Parliament that helps in the present state. But we can agree that this situation is not good, you stress that and now it's Professor. The bottom line said the leaders were directly elected. But according to the Constitution, according to the European Charter, it is the representative body that needs to be at the centre of attention. The immediate selection of the mayors and mayors is founded by law, and here is the constitution. Why don't the minister here, Minister Kuščević said next year he'll go out with it, why don't the council members then choose the majority system, so let him have the same legitimacy as the head of the body or at least introduce a preferential vote to have such legitimacy. To say that they do not have the same legitimacy is not good, because they are the ones who ultimately have to bring in the budget and other basic acts. I've never used the term "local sheriffs" or "involved." You just said that it might, that this possibility of creating administrative bodies would allow for the employment of new earrings. You know what I'm afraid of, which is less and less young, educated people, less and less of those people who actually wanted to accept it, especially in relation to Article 53a. where he says that by changing the designs, they can lose their jobs tomorrow. Who's going to get caught up in some business, if the head of the local self-government unit invites him, if he calls for a competition in such an uncertain job, and we know that, in order to get into what's being said at all, what's the law's intensities not to let them stay local self-government units for a long time without a representative body, that they can't propose projects. To get involved in projects, it takes him a couple of years to start working seriously. That's why all these legal solutions aren't the best, but they're just patching up what's not bad anyway. That's why I'd like you to call the ministers as soon as possible to reform the local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58833	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58834	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Zhagar, the minister heard you, so I believe he'll do something about it, and I would once again underline it for our citizens and the public. The provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which you also said that this law is contrary to that Charter, states that the concept of local self-government is. Under local self-government, the right and possibility of local units to regulate and manage under certain laws with their own responsibility and in the interests of the local public essential part of public affairs is assumed. What's at stake with this law? Furthermore, this right will be exercised through a council or assembly composed of members elected in free direct elections. The councils, congregations, they continue to function, through amendments, to model that budget as they wish. Moreover, the mayor and the mayor must comply with this budget, which I am not aware of, that is, the councilors must work exclusively and simply so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58835	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Lonchar. He's gone. Very well, then, Minister Kuščević. Here's five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58836	What about the pay phone?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58837	That's the procedure. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58838	Okay, I'm young. I'll learn the rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So while I was gone, I had a meeting downstairs. However, I heard there's talk of some kind of lex bandic, lex bandic sheriff, etc. And we heard from colleague Mira Bulja lex sheriff, and even Lex Pharaoh. However, here we still had the opportunity to hear a debate from colleagues and colleagues who were or are the leaders of the local self-government unit right now, and I can say here that I was the three-term head of the municipality of Nerežišće on the island of Brac, and I believe that at this moment I am the only living Croat who has all possible representative mandates at this time. So I am now a councilman at the Municipality of Nerežića, a council member in the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly, a parliamentary representative. I put it all on hold because I'm acting as minister of the administration and that's, of course, incompatible. By this kind of now I have three representative mandates at this point, it's to you to conclude that I'm really here in the making of this law being dragged in favor of a representative body, not for the benefit of a leader. However, I did not drag myself in favour of the representative body, nor for the benefit of the leader, but only for the benefit of our citizens in the interest of stronger stability, better quality of the budget process and, of course, later on, the implementation of all those projects that are budgeted all in the interests of our fellow citizens. So, Lex Sheriff, Lex Pharaoh is out of the question. Even less comes to mind lex Bandic because then we can call him lex Obersnel, we can call him lex Komadin. Namely, these are all leaders, mayors, mayors, mayors who do not have a majority, and have executive authority, and do not have a majority in the assembly. So there's no talking about guessing anyone. I've never had a drink with Mr. Bandic or any of those I just mentioned, let alone talk about this law. It is a law resulting from the work of the expert group in which the representatives of the academic community, representatives of the associations of cities, associations of municipalities, associations of mayors were not only the heads of these but also representatives of the representative bodies of these counties, municipalities and cities in which they were representatives of the Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Finance, other ministries, etc. To be honest with you, here's a useful debate, it's constructive, we hear good quality suggestions. Of all the things that I'm kind of worth considering, but somehow I have the most in my ear that's limiting the amendment. Therefore, we must not allow council members, or parliamentarians, to this extent to modify the budget so that it may become in some way impertinent. However, here we have also said that the amendments must be adopted in accordance with a specific regulation, which is the budget law which clearly states Article 38 of all amendments and additions that the Parliament and the units of local self-government adopt, these amendments must not exceed the amount of the permitted budget deficit and projections. During the debate on the draft budget and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft budget and projections can only be submitted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure in a specific part of the budget is proposed at the same time. These proposals shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock, on the burden of additional borrowing or on commitments already undertaken. Therefore, here we think that these restrictions set out in the Budget Law will be as sufficient as an insurance instrument to prevent so many amending budgets from happening. But let's not forget we heard here in the debate, and I also heard at the working-body sessions, or committee, I think that even Mr. Obersnel said my draft budget was the result of my pre-election campaign where I promised some of the citizens and now I have to go through the budget and realize it. But the council members also have their own pre-election campaign, it also has a municipal city council or county assembly of its own programme that it wants to implement and fine-tune through the amendments to ask for it to enter, then it is realized. Therefore, it is not only the budget of the power and the right of the leader but rather the agreement between the representative body and the representative body and the leader, and with these amendments of the law, we will certainly achieve this, correct and raise it to a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58839	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Here, and the propo lex again you have one lexicon here replica. We're gonna need lexaurine at the end. Mr. Churay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58840	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, you mentioned immediately at the beginning of your speech of a fellow member of the public political life who is already and until such a law was already long-standing and long-standing, obviously because they are chosen by the citizens. But it's actually always basically working out like this. One who's a good man would give him as much authority as possible. The one that's bad enough to take him out more. So that's where the balance is needed because if it's already accepted that someone is bad and we always have the tendency that these people don't support the vast majority of voters because in some polls they get I don't know, 30, 40% or because they get in the first round maybe 35, 40% of what is then interpreted as 60% of the people are against him. Of course, then it's being painted in one part and on the council. But the electoral system is what it is, and it's proven to be a good part useful, good. We've been at HNS for years and years, and we've suggested it. Of course we can look at the neighbours in Serbia, they had to give up. But first of all, I think that this balance between the council and the mayor, that is, the head of local and regional bodies, is generally good. But I say again, where he's bad he's showing up to go on his own. Where someone is extremely high-quality and capable, he would be given even more opportunities. So I couldn't agree with that if it were a single law for a single man, but of course everything depends on the situation to the situation. Our goal is to make as high-quality as possible, as productive a body as possible, as much as possible, as much as possible and as much as possible for citizens, and I think that's some sense of the law. I particularly support the part that goes into some sort of a sort of transfer of power to call elections for local committees to the council itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58841	Thank you very much, Mr. Curai. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58842	Here we go in the afternoon so we're a little tired, but my replica minister would actually be much more suited to correcting an incorrect quote for the next reason. Mr. Secretary is a little younger than me, but I'm still alive. Well, I'm a councilwoman on the local board of dr. Ante... Where our president and Mr. Shakespeare live, by the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm a councilwoman in the city council of Lower City, and I've given both of these two mandates to someone else. So I am a city representative in the City Assembly of Zagreb, my mouth praises me, so I will boast to the end and MPs in the Croatian Parliament where I entered the preferential twice and the second time from all those who, were not in that quota that I would directly have and, as a percentage, the highest number of preferential votes, so please correct the incorrect quote. And I have the city, I have the city of Zagreb, I have the local board, I have the council of city districts, so this is it, I have the city of Zagreb which is the status of city and county and I have Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58843	Yeah, yeah, somewhere a correction to an incorrect quote got lost, now we... I don't even remember when he got lost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your brief address, you have just led us to look back at just one specific part of your presentation when you spoke about a series of duties in local self-government and at the state level you've been acting on. And that, and more or less many of us have been on different duties, from the local board, which is very good and should actually be encouraged. Here I was also a member of the local board and at other levels of local self-government. But what I wanted to point out is that it's an opportunity for your ministry and for you to personally do something that's not really spreading that cumulation function that we have right now. It seems to me that today our legislation allows a much greater spectrum of simultaneous behaviour in local self-government and with a state level than even before. Today you can be a member of the representative body both in the municipality and in the city and in the county which was not possible at one time, you can also be in many positions, you can also be here in the Croatian Parliament which I do not think is a good solution. And here is to commend, for example, my colleague Frankovic, who was a fellow representative of the Dubrovnik mayor's election here, or I think he retired, I'm not sure, and he said that he could not act as mayor of the big city at the same time as a parliamentary representative. And I have to say that I liked what he did, every commendation, but if that's the attitude in HDZ, too, why don't we normally regulate it for bigger cities, now that the mayors can't be representatives, why not, for the level of big cities, maybe in some smaller municipality it's possible and compatible but at least for the first step, why not for bigger cities, county seats... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58845	In some countries, Mr. Dolnjak, you know that, you must... before resigning even [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In some countries even before you have to resign, before you run for... [[/Intruding Downhill: What?]] Mr. Sagar, come in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58846	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, therefore democracy and the democratisation of society is a process. And in this process any improvement or any desire to improve it can be progress. But what concerns me in this story, and when we talk about the provisions that are being abolished in some way by a single administrative department, because they say now they can form smaller municipalities, in the provisions relating to and on the financing itself, actually compensation to the council members and everything that is affecting many municipalities today, because we have to admit that in the municipalities, fewer and fewer people are getting paid. After all, less and less educated, fewer people who remain young and able. The Law on the Change of Finance of Local Self-Government has been adopted here, where source revenues have been increased, and it will even be possible to employ within these 20%, which is necessary for units to really apply to funds, to bring in professional people, in order for our local self-government units to advance. I am one of those who believes that the number of units of local self-government is not too large or a burden on the Republic of Croatia. Only proper dosing and administrative and fiscal capacities can then lead to progress. But what's controversial is when we talk about grouping more units of local self-government, in poor areas, we can group units of local self-government, but they won't do anything to improve their fiscal capacity. So let me get this straight. Once again I call on you, if we really want to take this problem seriously, I invite you to prepare a real reform next year, to see what you do, we have historical, cultural, natural heritage, we have many reasons why individual units of local self-government exist and many ways that they can survive. This patching won't lead us to that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58847	Thank you very much. Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, thank you for your comment, I said I think twice so far here and for the third time, it's not reform law, we all agreed. In the years, there is a new system of state administration, the current Ministry of Government, to analyse all state bodies, all ministries, public administration offices, counties, municipalities, cities, for the grouping of operations carried out by these bodies or units, administratively capacitated all these bodies so that we can bring in one smart, logical I would say, decentralised system. I agree with you that the number of units of local self-government is not the problem but their functionality. It is my view that units of local self-government should be strengthened, not abolished. You need to give authority, you need to give financial resources, and only if you can see that someone can't function in that way can we think about some kind of merger or something else. However, it is not even a topic of this law now, it will be if God gives health next year on the agenda and then we will appreciate all your therefore and all parliamentary representatives, experience, suggestions and suggestions to do so in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58849	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58850	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Minister Kuščević wants to convince us that this law goes to the benefit of the people but the figures deny it and also the practice of his government. We have heard that only two referendums have been held in the last 5 years, which makes up 0.001% of possible referendums, and only 38 times have been these re-elections, which also accounts for 1% of the total number of possible re-elections. Therefore, he argues that this law is needed to represent itself as well as that 1% of citizens, I think it is very transparent, and it is transparent because we see that the government has been using institutions, laws and budgets all the time. We saw last year that only one hand in Parliament cost Mr. Kuštević, 200 million kuna and there is no reason to doubt that this law was written for Mr. Bandic and for a few more of your local sheriffs because after you went out to Zagreb for elections with your candidate, Mr. Hasanbegovic, your apostate and Mrs. Esich have run you over in the elections and now you are trying to eliminate them by giving Mr. Bandić the opportunity to break up the coalition with them. So you're very transparent, that your concern for the citizens is actually one of the most common towers. You write laws for the purpose of your party, identify HDZ with Croatia and it is not your first time, it is simply your continuity towards it, and the sweet words you can say it at your party meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58851	Thank you, too. You have the answer of Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Representative. That HDZ is working in the interest of its party, its members, of course working in the interest of the party, in the interest of members, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of all Croats and Croats wherever they are located in Croatia or abroad, it was and it will be as long as the HDZ is. Those nebulogies you're talking about costing someone's hand 200 million kuna, I'm asking you to address them to the DORH, the militia, the police, the UskoK, who you want, and not to put them in the House like this, because these are very difficult accusations. The MPs here are chosen by a willing people and decide with their will who they will support, how and why. And by the quality of the program, I sincerely hope, not by any other criteria. I believe that that's how you and all the MPs here will behave and act. And this is as if you haven't heard me speak about it before lex Bandic or lex Obersnel or lex some other mayor, mayor or mayor. This is a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is the only objective, the only task that will achieve, I assure you, achieving better quality, better work, better relationship between the representative and executive body, better budget and better development of all units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58853	Can I help you with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bunjac, article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Mr. Minister has insulted
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58855	What? [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bunjac, I'm sorry, you'll have to choose another article.]] You will have to choose another article because in 238, it applies only to MPs. I'm sorry, I didn't bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58857	Yeah, but he uses words like that, rough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58858	I know, I mean, we can agree, but that's not the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58859	And you should have warned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58860	I know, but listen, I must have voted against the Rules of Procedure when it was brought in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58861	Okay. I'll just say for a little while that there was a contract with Mr. Glasnović and you can read it if you want the invoices. And insult someone as they speak nebulose. I didn't insult you, but you defend yourself with insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58862	Okay. I let you say your opinion, tolerantly. But read that article. And when it is now I hope to change the Rules of Procedure, be with the group and I will be in that group that will propose that various changes be made to the new Rules of Procedure. Because the rules of procedure are really out of date. But in 238, it refers to MPs. I'm sorry. Mr. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58863	Dear Minister. You know I don't normally agree with these amendments and the additions to the law. But as far as your last debate is concerned, I must admit that I fully agree with her, but from another angle. First of all, I don't think it's a lex Bandic, because it applies to all mayors, mayors of the mayor, to all MPs and the public who are not well aware of the situation in the City of Zagreb. In Zagreb, the firm coalition, Bandic, HDZ and Zlatko Hasanbegovic have recently been supported by two other people on the SDP list. One SDP and one HSS and no worries about elections in the City of Zagreb with an old or new law. The truth is also, if this law changes, it will help the mayor of Rijeka, which is from the SDP much more than any other mayor that is being debated here today. But also, the truth that the amendments and additions to this law will do the most harm to the independent mayors and commissioners. Or the mayors and the heads of small parties. They generally do not have a large number of council members although they have received a direct mandate and will in some way be valued by the council here because there will be a situation that will have to propose a budget or go to elections only for mayor and mayor. There's one more thing I agree with, unlike what you said in the introduction, which is that the budget is exclusively a financial document. You just said it's part of the mayor or mayor's political program, and so is the councilman. So he's certainly a political document, so if we're going to say mildly, politically, but certainly not just financially, because regardless of the experience some mayors have discussed here today and regardless of fiscal responsibility, I don't remember anyone ever answering that responsibility seriously. And we have almost 2/3 of cities and municipalities, and the best example is the City of Zagreb, where one third of the budget is not implemented and where it is then corrected in 10 and 12 months. And everything that has been promised in the budget has not been realised. Well, here, so I support your debate, but only this last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58864	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58865	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, here, in your debate you touched these amendments and said that both leaders and representative bodies were chosen by their programmes. I agree and it can be solved in a simple way. You even mentioned one word, and that's decentralisation. So it is necessary and necessary to decentralisation the country, so that we can practically satisfy in cities then, I believe the wishes of all those involved in budgeting, because I believe that this would get a lot more money and we could make a budget. And what I'm in the first line, I didn't make it because of time, one purely practical remark. What you have put to be published within 8 days means any change to the units of local self-government, which the mayor does, is considered unnecessary, but not to be placed within 8 days. But when you have a council, when the first official messenger goes, because that's all you do is create additional costs for local self-government units. And I don't think there's really any need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58866	Thank you, too. Replication response, Mr. Kovac, Mr. Minister. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What you said last Mr. Representative, the eight-day deadline is too short, is here, I can tell you that I'm going to propose to the government to accept this, to go to the first next announcement, in the first official messenger. I believe the government will accept that. So, notice and suggestion are in place. And I would answer to the gentleman, yes indeed, here I am going to repeat all that again from the beginning, nor is he a lex sheriff, nor is he a lex Bandic, nor is he a lex... but good, quality amendments to the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58868	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the clubs. Mrs. Dark Tritash in front of the Voice and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58869	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When three or four clubs speak in front of you, they're basically told a lot, so we repeat ourselves, but it absolutely needs to be repeated, no matter what we're relatively small and listens to the debate, but it's good to define and say. There are an open series of topics open topic, which would be if it were, so it's a topic for some future law. There was also a theme about why it's called the lex sheriff. Once you open Pandora's box, then some law starts talking to a man or some idea, then that Pandora's box no longer closes, so it's already done. The fact is, I honestly use it, although I'm very reluctant to use it for what reason? You know, I used to play during the time we were playing. We used to play in parks, play at playgrounds. And the time we were playing cowboys and Indians. And I could never come, nothing higher, the maximum range that I was, was the Chief's sister. And then maybe that's why I'm experiencing this lex sheriff in some other way, and I'm getting a little attached to my colleague, Branka, who said, so there are those who lost some choices. It's not about that, but let's just say what the real elements are and what's bothering us here. So when you go by amending and supplementing the law then do a little analysis before that and you see from that analysis what direction you're going to go and what you're going to do. And if there were some technical elements there so says the coat of arms must be heraldically correct, then for the change of borders there shouldn't be an opinion of the citizens, so that's all that's gathered along the way as some sort of opportunity and trouble. ...and I'm experiencing this lex sheriff in some other way and I'm getting a little attached to my colleague Branko who said so there are those who have lost some choices. It's not about that, but let's just say what the real elements are and what's bothering us here. So when you go by amending and supplementing the law then do a little analysis before that and you see from that analysis what direction you're going to go and what you're going to do. And if there were some technical elements there so says the coat of arms must be heraldically correct, then for the change of borders there shouldn't be an opinion of the citizens, so that's all that's gathered along the way as some sort of opportunity and trouble. However, what we are discussing and what is essential is the relationship between the mayor and the mayor, the mayors have 576 in the Republic of Croatia and the representative body. And so was the party where I used to be in favour of the fact that it was a direct choice of mayor. So we have a system in which we directly elect mayors or mayors, but we also have representative bodies representing the interests of citizens in municipal councils in city councils in the city assembly in the county assemblies, and we are talking about the interests of citizens. The way it was changing was to see what was wrong with that bad try to do something better than make it worse. Let's give an example and the laws can be ideal and the laws apply everywhere in Croatia, not only in the city of Zagreb, but everywhere, and when you go for a moment, you see the next situation, we were talking about local committees, so we talked about councils and everything. Yesterday evening I was in a town near Zagreb, an hour and a half from Zagreb Gareshnica, there was a lot of heated passions about elections for local committees. I was a little weird now, so I asked why, they weren't eight years old. After eight years they have elections for local committees and it's a reality and it's a real situation. Let's take a look at the budget, last year, the city of Zagreb that was mentioned a lot, and I was one of them who said that maybe lex sheriffs said could be called lex sheriff Bandic, so it would be simpler for us because I'm sitting in the back row there, so from the back row I'm watching what's going on and on every point in Zagreb, 51 of us collects the majority of 56 and for every point the MPs who hold the majority have problems going to the sanitary node, let alone what else. But well that gives interest to the whole story and some kind of liveliness. Now I am going back to the budget, last year at this time of the city of Zagreb budget and in order to have the required number of hands Mr. Mayor had then a coalition partner request that the funds for the cabler which was unmounted in 2007, is today 2017 and there is no indication when it will be remounted, they ask that the budget be 30 million generous mayor says so what is the problem 50 million. And, of course, with the campaign that was pretty intense, he's talking cable for Sljeme 50 million is no problem, we're going to rebalance the budget and we're reducing the budget from that 50 million to 5 million because he says we're not prepared and that 5 million is a little too much for us. Of course, the coalition partners say so here's the wrong plan. What's the budget? The budget is the mayor's work plan, the budget has its fixed part, which I call the flow boiler on which you can't influence whatever you say, so what goes in and out and you have a part that's developmental. The budget is the work plan the mayor will be doing next year. He comes before his council or the Assembly of the City of Zagreb with his budget and through the implementation of the budget says I planned wrongly or did not work or will not work. And if this amendment to the law had gone in that sense that we were questioning the mayor's responsibility for something he didn't do, I'd say here we are moving on. But no, we don't question it, we don't want to question it, and we can often get our mouths full of how someone does it and what it's like in some other countries. I love the example of Scandinavian countries, I love the example of Denmark, so I'm going to use Denmark as an example. We have the slightest response from our citizens to what elections? In local elections, and logic of things says the following, local elections are municipal elections, local elections are those where you, especially in smaller cities, a small number of inhabitants, know exactly which one you choose, know exactly who you can pull by the sleeve and know exactly who you can ask why no water, sewerage or this playground is devastated. The logic of things would be that these are choices where most citizens go out. Do you know where Croatia's largest turnout is? To elect the president of the state and the smallest to the local elections. Why? Because these are much more handsome and my president, my president, and here the citizens have become aware of it, and I can't change anything. We need to know the purpose, the purpose, the purpose, the meaning. So when the goal is to promote some values or some stories, regardless of who on which side of this assembly is sitting, absolutely if it's good there's no reason to affirmively not say good. But this is actually going to cut back on that story. Representatives in the city hall, or council, in the councils of the city districts, or in the councils of cities and municipalities, will become handlifters. And now the question is just do you want to be a handlifter or do you not want to be a handlifter for the simple reason, let's not forget the budget is the mayor's work plan. When you vote on the budget you doubt his work and direct it to be a little different, but that's the meaning of the budget and that relationship. The same way you have some systems and some countries where the mayors and mayors are confirmed by the king, the queen. We had, don't forget, we also had the president of the state confirming the mayor's choice. Maybe that's the way we want to go, so there's a lot of talk in the debate about what's the job of the president, the president of the state. Maybe it's one job we could give. I'd go one more step further and I'd say next. For some things, when you decide what you decide to do, you need to do it to the end. And you need to have the strength to do it all the way. Here you can see the role of the government's commissioner. So why don't we take a step further and say so. We want our mayors and mayors to directly choose people and choose them by name and name. They answer to the government for their work. When the government does not like what they do or do counter everything through the government, the government will have the opportunity to relieve them and to have commissioners, so the Commissioner will do what the Government wants in a certain period and at a certain time. And let's not bother over repeating our choices. We don't even have councilmen in municipal councils, city councils. We don't have representatives in the City Assembly, we don't have representatives in the county. So we're absolutely, it's the biggest cheaping. We don't have the money for, we don't spend the money for the election, we don't spend the budget on their work and everything else and the mayor answers the government anyway, so when he does, if he answers, he goes on, if we don't appoint the commissioner for a year and we move on. What am I saying? This law has basically two groups. There are a group of technical remarks that are absolutely changes to the law and everything is fine and we can discuss whether they are better or worse. But there's something. So, I always think and watch if it's a step forward. I may not even like the way it goes or maybe you think it should be better, but step forward is a step by step, so we'll come up with something. This is a step back. When you take a reckless step back, it's often a step into breaking and entering. I'm not going to do it so drastically that this is a break-in, but it's relative to democracy. What's going to be the reason for our citizens who are watching us, who are listening, who see everything that's going on, so we're discussing up to one, to three in the night. They no longer understand what the topic was, to go to local elections if those elected and elected by the mayor, the mayor was elected by their representatives. When they tell them, please see when it's going to be if the item can be stepped up. You know we don't have kids out there that can't get to kindergarten, school, I don't know, playground's devastated. This one says and listen, I can try, but there's nothing I can do. You'd best go to the mayor, or the mayor. Then he'll be able to do it through that budget or not. It's not a step forward, it's a step back. Since there are relatively few of us, I will allow myself and for the end a story that I had related to the city of Zagreb in the elections I lost, for which I bear a great deal of responsibility, guilt, and there is no dilemma. So, the theme is the cover on the roads that, at night, when heavy traffic is going, it's going down, and then it's going to be people. Recently, there was a presentation of these lids that would no longer drop, and a lot of media attention was made about it. And she tells me what you can do here. I say listen, go to the local board. She says, I went to the local board, so they told me on the local board that they couldn't do anything, that I should go to the city council. So I went to the City Hall, and they told me nothing, but to go to the Self-Government Office. So I went to the Self-Government Office and they told me it wasn't in their jurisdiction, but I'm going to Zagreb Roads. So I went to the Zagreb roads, so they told me and we don't run those roads. These roads are run by Croatian roads. So she went to the Croatian roads, so they said no, no, they told you wrong you have to go to the office anyway. And then she went to the office and then a lady said, "You know what, the only person who can fix it for you is the mayor, and it's best if you call the mayor." And that's your reality. Now the question is whether we want that reality or whether we want another reality. Whether we want to amend and supplement the laws that democratic processes will do, the worst for you is when it works so that one man decides everything. Then he also decides on your future whether we want democratic processes to move forward or not. What I always do, you always have something to commend. I commend as the first time the minister is with us today. We are not often able to see ministers, but Minister Kuščević was also there when he was Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. And one of the ministers who's always there is Minister Maric, so he hears everything he needs to hear. I commend and commend that the law goes into two readings, because it is always good that you can accept some remarks and that some remarks can be discussed. And you need to see into the future what we really want? Do we want to have mayors in Croatia no matter what we call them and the question, so do we want people to choose them and answer to whom we want them to respond? How we want to establish this mutually fine filigree relationship, when we know what we want, then we can go into amending and supplementing the law. I'm afraid this is the model, I'd use it, I won't use the lex sheriff for the simple reason that it's always a picture of those sheriffs walking around and they don't care what's going on around here, they do what they want. What is really a certain doubt, and that is related to the second largest Parliament in Croatia, which is a hundred meters away from the Zagreb Assembly. But Mr. Bandic didn't need to change the law. Until now, he's been so good at making arrangements that I absolutely doubt he's going to do it to you this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58870	You see a good mayor has no early choices. And Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58871	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I must say that as a person and as a colleague, I appreciate it and there is no debate that I will not listen to with special attention, so I am sorry if through my reply to the replica you found injured. What I can say is that it's really hard for me to hear in this Visko home when it's about the mayor, the mayors and the mayors as sheriffs, and all of us here think the same thing, all of us who have tried what it is to do and what it's like to do. When I said that, I thought that in fact there was virtually no fellow MPs, especially someone who was more in office in this assembly that wasn't distinguished by his party as a candidate for mayor, mayor and mayor and now speaks of them as sheriffs. Furthermore, when it offends us, I still consider myself to be no longer the mayor but somehow on the side of those leaders, it's not just that person, it's insulting all voters and it's more than 50% that have given confidence to that particular leader. Furthermore, each of us has his own style of work as well as in this assembly we have every style of work and should not be through Mr. Bandic if you have any objections to watch all of us, I would say, small mayors and mayors as I did when I pointed out, I didn't think of you now, so here I apologize to this opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58872	The answer to the line, here you go, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58873	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, I only took advantage of it, I took the opportunity to connect it all together. There's something else I wanted to say, so I'm gonna use this. At one point I thought, imagine that there is a basis for the Law of Conflict of Interest that those who are in any way in conflict of interest with a certain law about it cannot debate. So who would argue or how many flaws would debate us even though I have to tell you, I'm saying it and I'll say it no matter what, it always seems to me it's good that there are mayors and mayors in this assembly. Because a lot of us tend to live in a tower, you know, like a Matovilka, live closed, let your hair go, and you don't see what's going on in real life. These mayors and mayors see what happens in real life, people knock on their doors and say they can't put a child in kindergarten, they can't get to their real estate, not this or that. I am one of those who has always represented the view that being mayors and mayors is also an advantage rather than a flaw. Likewise, of course, if this discussion were alive when it comes to this law, I am sorry that no matter how late they are in the evening, it might be a little better if we were more here and more debated because it is a very important and important law. So I repeat it all the time. Elections for mayor and mayor, these are municipal elections, my interests as a citizen of a part of the city are actually primarily and can be achieved in their local self-government unit. So then these little sharper tones of ours, you understand in the context of it, we all want it to be better in this country together, and when we suspect it's not like that, then we're here a little bit, so with more energy we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58874	Thank you. Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58875	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you mentioned the first and the very turnout of the election and speaking of reviewing the mayor's responsibilities. In fact, we have people whose responsibilities are being questioned by judicial authorities, and apparently that's not enough. It is not enough for the people, and it may also have the truth to say that the people have the power they deserve because it is in the final line of choice, but it is still the legislator's obligation to ensure as much quality as possible, more transparent and more efficient management of local resources, of course in such and similar legal frameworks. There is always a dilemma, and what I have said before, we have left that direct and indirect choice, we have gone into a direct selection of leaders who are now being complemented by changes from 2012 where we have seen something again, so we have tried to improve it, and now and again let's move things, let's say, at least so I look at it in this way to remove some political games and from some political discipline reduction just because it's not the same option as the elected mayor, mayor or mayor until on the other hand what I've repeated, that certain manipulations of the public and because of the discrepancies, let's say now in and in the judiciary, the people continue to choose those who think they are the best, although it may be someone who are looking at the other side are incomprehensible. And there's always this balance that we won't be able to satisfy, but I think that every law is subject to change and that always time will show the best. I mentioned to Serbia, they had this direct choice from 2004 to 2008, they left, of course colleagues also mentioned the European Charter, which says they are more indirect. So every country has its own system that's arranged and isn't the same everywhere. Most of this is more technical things that I welcome, this major change will prove safe in time whether it will bring good or not, we certainly have opportunities and we need to accept or try.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58876	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58877	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Curaj, you've said a series of things here, so let's try some more things to clarify and define. Each country decides on certain systems that are most acceptable to them and that they think that you will function best. The worst thing for you is when countries think about it in the short term, and then you think that life started with you and that it ends with you, and then you look at it for a term of four years, and what we can do about it in those four years. Let's see the experiences of the countries that went through as they prepared the reform. So I really talk a lot about Denmark and about spatial planning and about housing issues and how they define housing. They also decided on a reform that has 99 municipalities and cities, they have five regions and they are actually trying to encourage people to go to elections. I must admit that through all these amendments to the law, especially when it comes to local and regional self-government, I feel like we don't want people to go to elections and that's what one of the guidelines was through my debate and the way I talked about it and the way I'm going to talk about this law. But let's absolutely do what we have. We have a mayor who's been directly elected and the citizens choose the one they think will best lead the city. And there's no dilemma, there's no anger, there's no anger, there's no one you win, you lose another time. That's the way it is in life, so it's in the election. But they also choose representatives who, through their work in the bodies, in the municipal councils, in the city councils, question the decisions of the mayor. But what I learned just as well. One young, recently elected mayor said, I if I'm a good mayor, I don't need any law, if I'm bad there's no law that will make me a good mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58878	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58879	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Taritash, you said what intentions were here at the adoption of this law, it is obvious what intentions were, to further strengthen these mayors who are on the HDZ line or who are with them in cooperation. So but it's probably the goal, not only that, so you mentioned Milan Bandic, we have an example of the city of Rijeka, we have an example of Split, too, and some other cities where HDZ doesn't have the necessary majority. But I think the reason for this law is another fact, which is that the Prime Minister is losing his support, that his rating is falling, and he wants to avoid any election at all. So his goal is to cement the situation, his goal is to avoid any demonstration exercise that would show that HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic are not doing well. And as for the mayor himself, the fellow Members of the House, none of us claim that all mayors are sheriffs, none of us have ever said that. But what is not good is for mayors who have too many powers and powers to increase even more and reduce the powers of the council. I will since I come and have been elected to the 6th constituency to read here one message that I received. He says: “I recall that in the debate on lex sheriff, the problem of the self-will of the great mayor and parliamentary representative Drazen Barisic has been being used for 4 months as part of the debate on the issue of the current clock, with 2.6 million kuna spent in 2016 in the item of information and promotion of the city. So we have situations where the mayors refuse to answer certain questions for four months. And we now have the intensities, so both from the minister and from the government to further strengthen the powers of the mayors and the chiefs, so that those who are sheriffs, acting like sheriffs, can treat the public and the opposition even more rudely and not answer questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58880	Thank you, Mr. Grmoya. Answer, Mrs. Mark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58881	Thank you very much. Comrade Grumoja, I can agree with you that haughtiness is a very, very bad character trait and it is, even those who did not have it very easily and very quickly acquire it and suddenly try. But the worst thing is, when someone tries to do it, we're holding the lottery. So when Parliamentarians through, when some laws, these laws allow them to do so. So it's really not unusual for the mayors not to respond at all, to say you can't, to ask me why, that from the pay phone they don't say that, that we had examples to hear so our mayor and I have to say it, you know everyone has a problem, so then of course you always say all the examples through the city of Zagreb, so from the pay phone he tells one representative that he's dressed inappropriately because he didn't have a suit appropriate, so that's the usual rhetoric and that. But you know what the worst part is, the worst part is that after a certain time, no one reacts because everyone gets used to it. Although you first asked the question and said that there are certain arrangements between the mayor and between the prime minister. I'm too old to believe in coincidences. The same was the event at the beginning of the 9th month when there was a discussion about the majority that was very tense and relatively and unnatural in the city of Zagreb and then the mayor of Zagreb said that it was no problem, that it would go law, he knew exactly what the law would look like and that he would not have the problem. Well, I just, I didn't hear it, so I wouldn't like it so directly, and I didn't attend it, but I've heard it many times that it wouldn't cause relative doubts, but also the minister from here said there was nothing there, so it's to trust the minister, but I wouldn't remove this doubt about Mayor Bandic until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58882	Thank you very much. Mr. Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58883	You told your colleague Mrak, among other things, ironically, that is to say that you suggested to the Government that he abolish the elections when he wanted to control everything and that he was already one of the key elements or arguments of the cost of the election. And here you forget all the time that it's not a relevant phenomenon at all because the number of repeat choices is marginal. I don't know if it's been 4 a year. So it's total marginality. All that's below 25 or 30 is absolute marginality. You said the dictatorship itself was the cheapest in that sense. There's no choice, you don't have to ask anyone anything, and there's no participation of the citizens. What fascinates me with almost every government is that it seeks to contain the space of participation of citizens in making decisions at the very least possible. And practice, and our life shows that the crisis of political parties, the crisis of political institutions, the crisis of politics as such, the emergence of populism, very extreme movements has just been planted in the fact that citizens have been prevented from taking part in decisions. And now you have a situation where your citizens have a high sub-representation in choosing an executive function because about 40% of the votes fail. So many citizens don't have a representative in the elected head of local self-government and you have a correction in the representative body, where it collapses little or no. Here's the last election in Velika Gorica, not one vote has failed. All the lists that competed entered the city council. And you have a correction that says, Mayor, you can't propose a budget every year, 30 or 40 million more than it's real, and then in six months, you can do the rebalancing, and you can take it off, especially in election years. Because it's irresponsible, it's rude, it's something that can't happen. And now you're saying, you can't say that, it's not a collective that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58884	Thank you. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58885	Thank you very much. A colleague of Beus Richembergh's on the replica of the Minister, how much did it actually cost you in four years? How much did it cost us from the budget these re-elections? We didn't get the answer, so maybe until the final address and we get it, and that's for sure the ministry has the information and knows. But I'm absolutely certain, imagine what savings would be, if we say, we only have elections for the mayors and mayors, we'll forget all this in common. Imagine just that savings. We don't have councilmen, we don't have agents, we have nothing. The mayor doesn't have a session, there's nothing. It's real savings. But if that's what we want, then let's really say it. That's what we want, we don't want you harassing us with the election, we don't want anyone out there who's gonna sheep or whatever, that's what we want. We want mayors and managers. So the mayor, the manager, who manages management, when he meets the conclusion, gets a four-year contract with the clause. If you haven't satisfied anything, four years ago, I can fire you. Why wouldn't we have that? Maybe we'd be better off, maybe we'd be more efficient. Maybe they'd actually be more effective. Maybe it's a model you should have, but then you should have the strength and suggest such a model.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58886	It's just not the manager's name. Thank you very much. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58887	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleague Mrak Tritash, you mentioned in your statement that the law changes, the difference, the coat of arms, the council fees, that this is not really the intention of this law, and I agree with you, but this relationship with both the representative body and the leader himself. I see that all of you on this side, especially you colleagues from Zagreb, are a little obsessed with Bandic. Because you probably lost everyone at some point to the mayor of Bandic, so you think this is all meant for him now and you use those expressions like lex Bandic, lex sheriff. I think the minister, along with the task force, just had other examples and other cities on his mind. And I think that we can freely call this law lex Vrgorac and the minister I think was Vrgorac on his mind more than Zagreb and I don't believe that he thought so much about Zagreb, but actually, i.e. just about the unnatural situation that happened in Vrgorec that in 4 years we have 4 elections, that an unnatural and abnormal relationship between the representative body and the leader in Vrgorec, which led to Vrgorac stagnating in the last 4.5 years precisely because of this relationship and doing such things. Here, let me say, over there is the mayor of Mostov, this will preserve him, so that shows our width, but I think it's actually the intensity of both the ministry and the working group exactly Vrgorac and not Zagreb or Bandic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58888	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Taritash. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58889	Thank you very much, dear fellow, we always have a way of listening to ourselves as we speak, but we hear someone else a little less. I said the following in my presentation, which is why I deliberately mentioned some things. If this amendment and the addition of the law were only about that, then it would actually be one amendment and addition of the law which is based on what was found to be bad, it would improve it. And that's where I said one fact, which is that there were constitutional judgments, and now I'm getting it a little deeper, not to ask the citizens at the moment that they decide on the boundaries, but they change the boundaries in another way. The fact that I'm somehow allowing myself, so I've lost the coldest thing to Mr. Bandic with still fresh wounds as it seems, when you dare say you want to change something and then you dare to fight it all the way. And you have everything against you. So when it's a little bit more time, I can tell you what it looks like to you, when you have everything against you and you get into such a single fight, and you're starting to be 4% mayor at 33, and you end up at 47%. Well, then I don't experience it at any point who defeats, but I'm experiencing a really good job, but it's another topic. I really must admit that at a certain point, I have to suspect that the intensity was really about Mr. Bandic, but I have finished my presentation, and this is how I will respond to your replica. He doesn't need to change the law. He doesn't have the law that he'll be able to handle. And in Vrgorec, there was another situation and there was a little natural and unnatural. The question is who was there for the vote and the bus to which the voters came.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58890	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, you mentioned the problem with the lids on your local board. I have a slightly different problem with my local board, and that's parking. I live in the town district of Stenjevec, where I am a committee in Spain, it is the westernmost part of the City of Zagreb. They usually call us the suburbs of Ljubljana, how far away we are from the center. And the mayor Bandic remembered, in one building, there in front of a building, because probably in the building is a very weak sale of garages to introduce parking collection. And what you've been saying is that it's very likely this law will bring a little bit of turnout to the election. But what I think it will bring will bring greater civic activity. The citizens also went through their local committee, so it's up to them, city councils, and they've been getting answers all the time, the mayor's in charge. And then they organized themselves. They stopped traffic, signed a petition of 1,000 citizens signed a petition and the mayor stopped it. So I think this law will bring more civil activation, perhaps some rebellion, perhaps some protests, but surely what it will bring will bring less turnout to the elections because citizens will no longer know that they can change certain things through their councillors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58892	Thank you very much. And the final answer to Mrs. Dark-Taritash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58893	Thank you very much. My colleague Sladolev, you may have been really careful I listened to you about this activism, really this activism occurs at times when citizens don't know anymore, they have no other way of finding a mechanism for them to ask anyone if they're asking, and they don't get answers. The mayor of Velika Gorica was also mentioned there. Recently outside this assembly were people from Lower Lomnica who say we in the immediate neighborhood get an asphalt base. We asked the mayor why, we asked how, we didn't get the answer. And in all this, people go out and ask publicly because they get public attention then and the media is watching them a little bit, and someone else shows up there and gives them the right. I'm not sure the applicant's intensity was to strengthen activists in this way. But really, it's going to happen more, you have those visionary mayors who wake up in the morning and think of something that's perfect, and there's no one who says it really isn't, and now nobody can say it to their city council or city council, and then it's going to last. In particular, this little increase in the visionary activity in the pre-election year is how elections are going and elections are approaching, and then the problem you have in the budget is solved where you go to solve the problem, where there is money. And where is that? In the pockets of our citizens. Let's just say when this law was being considered, why wasn't it thought of in a way that, say, six months before the elections, the mayors couldn't use their position as mayors and mayors and their protocol responsibilities to promote elections, but they neatly hand it over to their deputies, and they go on a campaign like everyone else does. And you and I both know that in the campaign in the first round of mayors, we didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58894	Thank you. And Minister Kuščević for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's just a brief look at the initiatives that came from the GLAS representatives probably on behalf of the club and the GLAS and HSU as far as we've seen. Unfortunately, we will not accept your ideas about the appointment of a king or queen. We don't have a king or a queen, and that wouldn't be democratic. That we will not end the elections as you have suggested, we will continue to be a democratic party, a democratic government in a democratic state, not to end them. We will also not introduce a dictatorship here as you said it would be the cheapest and to introduce a dictatorship, we do not think it would be appropriate for Croatian society and the Croatian state. We will also not do so for the government to appoint a commissioner and then for the commissioner to manage the municipality, the city or the county. I know that this is all there is obviously such thinking in some political parties, but we are not going to do it, of course. We will pass this law with the i.e. The Croatian Parliament I believe will pass this law with all the good and quality examples that you have said here and what really part of it we have already promised one thing to respect, and we will also consider part of it and see that there are good suggestions that we will take into consideration. And I would only briefly answer Mr. Grmoya's representative to that finding that the election doesn't fit. I will no longer recommend that it is not lex Split, lex Zagreb, lex Vrgorac, lex any of it is lex Croatian cities, municipalities, counties, lex Croatian people. And the fact that they don't fit the Prime Minister and HDZ President Plenkovic's election for a fall in popularity, so we saw last week in the Popularity and Support Parliament, which is enjoyed by this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, so I think you've made a mistake and the message and the person to whom it is addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58896	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. First Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58897	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Minister. I was talking about cities, and it's clear what the intensity of this law is, and it's known that certain people who don't fit the current situation in city councils were the leaders of this law before his draft appeared in a public debate, that's a fact. And the other thing here, you mentioned an example, for example. The example of Vrgorec was mentioned and that you were taking the Vrgorec example in passing this law. In Vrgorec, what happened was that HDZ was finally defeated by all this assistance that was mentioned and coming through various means, was finally defeated by HDZ, which left the city at a minus 17,5 million kuna. We have the fact that the entrepreneurship center of the new mayor Pranic from European funds was freely written on the cover the other day by eight million kuna. We have the fact that now those responsible for the stagnation of the town of HDZ councilors who have not been paid compensation at the time of HDZ authorities are now suing the city for those fees because Mayor Pranic refused to pay them that and abolished the fee just as we did in his town or reduced them to one kuna because you cannot cancel it completely. So I don't know why you were taking the Vrgorca example, the Vrgorca example is just a positive example of this law because most in the council managed to remove one incompetent city government and in the elections to fight to get a young able mayor for which HDZ is probably Mr Mario Bebić, who was the main coordinator of the HDZ election campaign, said that little Pranic is working more than 30 HDZ mayors and mayors of the assembly. So I think it's a positive thing for the Vrgorac that happened. So I'm not as clear as my colleague said that you did this bill based on Vrgorec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58898	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for giving me an answer for the replica. I wouldn't really want to bring it down to the level of any work and repeat what I said at the very beginning and the very introduction when I represented these changes and additions. A law that will contribute to better work of units of local and regional self-government, better relations and cooperation of representative and executive bodies, better budgets and this means better development and implementation of all those projects planned through the budget for the next year and through projections for the next two years. All that stuff you said in Vrgorec, I wouldn't really get into it. I don't think it's even the subject of the law, and it's not the kind of thing the minister of the administration should be talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58900	Thank you very much. Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said in your statement that you would not end the election and that it was absolutely not your intention. But here's an example of the provision you're proposing in these amendments to the laws you're about to do. In fact, Article 11 of the bill, where you propose that early elections for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and his deputy, will not be held, will not be called if the deputy acting as municipal chief ceases 12 months before the regular election is held. So far, we have had a situation that early elections will not be held if they follow in the year when regular elections are held. In fact, you are now proposing this solution that early elections are not held a year before regular elections, which means that the Prime Minister, without local self-government, would manage instead of mayors, mayors and mayors. So that period without the elected head of local self-government instead of half a year would be more than a year. That's the solution you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58902	Mr. Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, we've had our comments on what you're talking about and by the board and that's the thing the ministry is going to consider. I think the government is going to change its decision there and it's going to be exactly what you're proposing, i.e. Go back to the way things were.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58904	Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58905	Dear Minister, I don't think we should talk today in the way we talk here, so to whom this law pleases or doesn't suit. Because if we look, I don't know MOST they have one chief, one mayor and that law certainly won't do them any harm, there won't be any more, there won't be any fewer. So we have a party I don't know the Voice has no one, the living wall doesn't have any mayors, mayors etc. And it's the wrong debate. So constructive. This very proposal means trying to achieve the co-operation of councils and commissioners, the mayor is well and it should be voted on as you have done. Because we see that even in situations where the chief isn't on his side of the council it's kind of a solution for everyone to agree on a basic act, it's a budget. We've all got some deadlines by the end of the year to adopt it, and maybe here it is now, here it is, until the law is passed, etc. The transition periods, let's see how that works. Whether you're in love or not. Because the fact is, once upon a time under that old law, it was used to destroy power. You're now giving the council the opportunity to fix the amendments if they think the mayor or mayor didn't do something or suggest something like that to them. So let them do it, let them show that will of their own, etc. And nothing will happen to anyone. The chief then risks or the mayor to make the other happen, means he's disbanded. So that's quite a good solution. And I think that more or less those who carry local communities, so mostly when we talk about parties with it are more or less satisfied and there shouldn't be any opposition. Now, who's going to make a better impression or not, I'm saying there are a lot of parties here in the House that don't affect at all, absolutely doesn't affect. So here I think the law is good and that this debate should go the other way, let's see what else needs to be fixed. I'll tell you what in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58906	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58907	Thank you very much. When it comes to the law, when it comes to local self-government units, when it comes to the 25-year budget, I've been driving in the city and in the county all over, and I'm going to say extreme conditions. So I was driving and I crashed and they took me down, they brought me down, and they brought me down with a state or a military coup, and so on. etc. But this law is spent on me. The engine no longer pulls the brakes and your tires are out, the tank is empty. And with that we can neither go to Europe nor we can receive Europe or receive gifts coming from Europe. We need status, we need stability of the local self-government unit, we need decentralisation, we need a territorial structure, and I don't think that's your crime scene. It's the crime of many of your predecessors, it's criminal not your government but many governments before they should have done it but they didn't. And I'm not into this laxative or some kind of cosmetics, I'm not going to say throwing dust in your eyes because maybe someone else would do it so you wouldn't accidentally be offended. But I listened to you on the radio this morning, you said about territorial structure, decentralisation, etc. status that you'll do it next year. I'd suggest more here than a replica. Drag this law, transfer it to next year, it's a month and a half, and we can solve everything in general, all of it, and that we can really go to Europe and receive those blessings from Europe that are being provided to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58908	Thank you very much. And now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Mr. Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58909	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. It is about amendments to the law on local self-government, about important system law, the organic law that governs the primary relationship between the representative and the executive body and has the same importance for local self-government as the Constitution defines the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government at national level. Unfortunately, the proposed law has not been made in accordance with such importance, nor has a public debate been held that would be appropriate and even formally 15 days instead of 30 days of consultation with the interested public. It is absolutely insufficient and as a possible reason to launch a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law. Also, formally legal, the law is foreseen to be adopted and to enter into force obviously within a very short period of time, certainly this year, which is the intensity of the applicant and which means at the time when the budget process is under way. This law goes into two readings, the second reading can take place in the second half of November, followed by a vote and entry into force 8 days after the publication, so somewhere in the first half of December if the proposer will insist on that also on provisions on the entry into force of the law. The deadlines prescribed by the Budget Act for proposal and today just 15 November are the deadline for the Head of the Executive Body to refer the draft budget to the decision-making and budgetary decision-making body, so they could not be applied in the event of the adoption and entry into force of the proposed law particularly in the situation provided for by the proposal, which is that the Head of the Executive Body withdraws the draft budget from the decision-making process and proposes a new proposal within an undefined period. It is precisely this possibility that absolutely makes it impossible to comply with the budget deadlines set out in the Budget Law. But let us start from the beginning, the proposed law, if it has 35 articles and apparently represents a significant change in the regulation of local self-government, has a large number of cosmetic provisions, and in its centre it is, according to the Proposer, the creation of a new balance mechanism between the representative and the executive body. The constitutional provision in Article 133 also states the right of citizens to achieve local self-government through elections for a representative body and through direct decision-making. It is the same provision in the European Charter of Local Self-Government which speaks and that representative bodies may have executive bodies responsible for that representative body. We have ratified the European Charter in full, but our laws unfortunately do not respect either the letter nor the spirit of the charter. And once again, it should be noted that the direct election of the mayor has no constitutional basis but only legal basis. And this Croatian Parliament as legislator can amend the Law on Local Self-Government at any time and abolish the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors and return to the earlier election system of the executive body by a representative body with 76 votes as an organic law. But it cannot do so with the constitutional authority of the representative body to manage the local self-government because it is a constitutional foundation, I just want to show you the difference between the representative body and the direct choice of mayor and that they do not have the same foundation. What's the main problem with this law? The proposed law completes the process of creating untouchable and irresponsible executives of local self-government, and these were once merely absolute monarchs. Unresponsible to citizens who can be called off through referendums only in theory. Unresponsible to a representative body which can no longer propose its impeachment to citizens by 2012, and in practice if this law is adopted neither by adopting a budget as previously, except in a second attempt after the original disbandment of the representative body. Unresponsible also to the supervisory authorities of the state administration who cannot do anything unless they propose a budget in accordance with the law. We fear that such an arrangement will in no way contribute to better, more responsible, fairer and more transparent work by the mayors, mayors and mayors. If there are no effective sanctions, you cannot expect the head of the executive body to be responsible. Article 69, which is at the heart of our discussions today, brings dangerous newspapers. According to him, the mayor is obliged to propose a budget but may withdraw it before the adoption and re-propose it within a time limit that will allow the representative body to decide on it and make it. This provision of article 69 and I would call ping-pong a provision. Why? It does not define how many times the head of the executive body could withdraw the budget. So the word is a certain game of exhaustion between the representative body and the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. I note that this provision on the possibility of withdrawing the budget from the procedure was not in the original draft which was at the consultation with the interested public. This part only appeared as a proposal addressed to the Government and now to us in the Croatian Parliament. So, what exactly do you have now? You have the opportunity for the representative body to adopt the budget, i.e., adopt all amendments to the budget, at this point the dissatisfied head of the executive body withdraws that budget from the decision-making process and is obliged to propose it again. What will he suggest again? So he was obviously unhappy with the accepted amendments. It will propose a different budget without the amendments accepted, again some kind of budget. The representative body then re-emerges amendments, once again decided by the head of the executive body, may withdraw the budget. This legal provision allows for this until 31 December. It is not clear how many times this ping-pong situation could actually take place between the representative body and the executive. I particularly expect the applicant's answer, i.e. the Government's second reading of this law. Because they say that everything should naturally take place within the time limits that are appropriate for a decision. But look, what's the deadline? What is an undefined deadline suitable for a representative body? I must say, I've already been asked by some councilmen in representative bodies how to actually act in this situation? In fact, how to react if the head of the executive body withdraws the budget after the declaration of amendments when it is apparent that certain amendments have been accepted which may not correspond to the head of the executive body because its capital projects may have been deleted, since some others considered more important by the representative body have been included. I answer that it is most safe for the representative body to decide on the budget on 31 December. By law, the budget must be adopted by the end of the current year. Therefore, if the representative body decides on 31 December, it shall accept its amendments then the head of the executive body shall no longer be able to withdraw such a budget because there is no longer time to refer a new one to the procedure. 31. 12. He can't do that anymore. But is the legislator’s intention and intensity to decide the final day of the year? At the Old Year, to make sure that the law, or budget that they wish to adopt with all amendments, cannot be withdrawn from the decision-making process by the mayor. The only solution that is actually very bad for the last day of the year to decide on that budget and then to deny actually the possibility for the executive head to withdraw that budget. I expect what I've just said to the minister who's here to see that ping-pong between the representative body and the executive body and how that story would take place during December in the appropriate deadlines there after 15 December, and then you have holidays until the Old Year. I argue that this provision will eventually lead many representative bodies to declare the last day of the current year for their safety and acceptance of the amendments. It's, of course, a central provision. There are many other provisions that will also be discussed, some we have already spoken about, about government commissioners who unfortunately remain governors who the government has appointed to local self-government despite the criticism of the professional public. That the commissioner's institute should be rejected because it is too much for the government to intervene in local self-government. There can be a different solution in extreme situations where there is no budget or when there is no executive head, we had a situation once in local self-government that the president of the representative body in that situation could act as leader at least temporarily. It is, however, the person who has the legitimacy of the election in local self-government. I'm talking about a short period of a few months. Furthermore, Mr. Minister boasted that the monthly fees of members of the representative body would be rationalised. That this fee will be based on the session held and only for this session at which a member of the representative body is present or impregnable. Unfortunately, however, it was then expected to be said in the law, which is the maximum fee for coming to a particular session of the representative body. If there is a need to change the monthly fee, for example from 1000 kuna, to make it possible for the representative body to decide that the council members are entitled to a fee of 1,000 kuna to attend the meeting of the representative body. There's no rationalization. I suggest you limit that fee to a reasonable amount by the second reading, for example, two logs at the meeting of the representative body. Then you'll have real rationalization and savings. Furthermore, no rationalisation has allowed small municipalities to establish more than 3,000 administrative departments. It is, therefore, small dwarf municipalities that are very difficult to have a larger administration, simply do not have the capacity fiscally to have this in addition to the honorable exceptions of some small local self-government perhaps in the Adriatic that have significant fiscal incomes. But the vast majority of small municipalities don't have that. What makes it possible to provide more administrative departments, more supervisors, more employees? Trust me, we will certainly have such a tendency. But in those local self-governments that have the smallest fiscal capacity and which will then ask the government to provide the state budget with funds for these small self-governments. In Most, we had exactly the opposite proposal that small municipalities of 3,000 people do not have their own administration, but that for them the administrative, budgetary financial management of the central city was an idea. So, rationalization. Next, you said you were strengthening the representative body. You have one provision in article 19 where you delete the words that the concession is given by a representative body. Which is the implications of it. The implication is that the concession may, by some laws, be awarded by the executive body. Imagine that the concession is awarded by the executive body, one person. Can you imagine a larger source of corruption, when one person awards concessions for anything than when it does a representative body, which must sit transparently at a public meeting in front of the public, where he makes a decision to the majority of the votes but there is also an opposition. So, you can't secretly bring concessions. You make this modernly clear, that it's not a representative body, that always usually brings concessions. It is possible that according to special laws, there is a intention that the concession is brought by the executive body. But here I want to point out on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club that it's a disaster. One man can't bring any concession, any concession, for anything. And finally, I hope that the Proposer will take all the remarks seriously and that by the second reading this law will be far more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58910	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58911	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, it was a real pleasure to listen to your analysis of the proposed law, which showed all its shortcomings and the fact that such a bill only strengthens the position of mayor and mayor, to enable, as you said, in this case concession, that the mayor himself, out of the public eye, makes important decisions, without a representative body, which, as you said, must be made transparently before the public, make such decisions. You also mentioned this case that if the Council wishes to amend the draft budget to certain amendments that they are most certain to meet for the old year, which is absurd and ridiculous and only shows that this law did not result from some serious analysis and improvement of the situation in local self-government, but that the sole objective was to protect and strengthen certain local leaders, means the unit of local self-government. First of all, mayors of major cities and those of mayors or mayors who correspond to the ruling party. Here, I would take the opportunity here, suggest that we maybe abolish the multi-party and democracy, because our Prime Minister likes to call for stability. I think it's just some kind of dictatorial form of government, the most stable form of government. There's not much wavering, there's no questioning, no decisions are made quickly, nobody's causing problems, there's no Maras to question something, there's no Grmoja, there's no Bulja, and then our great leader, he can, I don't know if it's Vladimir Seks or it's Andrej Plenkovic. It can mean making decisions without any problems. I think that would be the most on the trail of this stability that the Prime Minister advocates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58912	Thank you. The answer of the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58913	Thank you. So I didn't even notice that in the meantime they came behind me to welcome you as the new chairman of this session. We have tried in this limited time, which is available to us, and we have noted that a very short discussion, with consultation with the interested public, is to point to a number of problematic points. I hope we've managed to convince you, that these things we're talking about, about this budget game in December, which is possibly coming to us, if you really insist on this law for a very short period of time, about these other provisions that simply aren't enforceable and that will cause a major disturbance in local self-government that you really have the opportunity to do another reading. We absolutely expect what you said, to strengthen the representative body, but not cosmetics. Give him a chance, give him back the representative body he had before, so he can initiate the mayor's impeachment. If you do, and that's what the HDZ put in the original law in 2007 to return what you originally had in the model of the direct choice of mayor. When you return it, I'll tell you that you've strengthened the role of the representative body. When you give the right representative body to bring the budget without these withdrawals, I'll say you've strengthened. When you return the provision to the concessions of a representative body, I'll agree that you've strengthened it. And with some other provisions, when you abolish the government's commissioner and give the opportunity to temporarily in that local self-government, a few months before the election at the head of a representative body, as an idea, just a few months before the regular elections or early elections, then I will agree that you are strengthening the representative body. But we expect exactly those improvements in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58914	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58915	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, at first you said and compared the relationship between the representative body and the elected leader with the relationship in the Government and the Parliament, which may not be true since this one is elected directly, and the Parliament, that is, the Government indirectly, would perhaps be the best match between the Parliament and possibly the President of the Republic. Well, good. Then you might get some impression, which means direct legal comparison, which means directly chosen. One body and the other. But as for your findings and concerns about the withdrawal of the budget, this would lead directly to the situation, that after he proposed and withdrew at one session of the council, he would not get a second chance to propose it. Because the session is being convened by the president and he doesn't have to wait for 31.12. It's enough that he did it 30.11. ...with that item on the agenda on which the budget was not adopted, did the directly elected leader withdraw. And it no longer has to call a session to go to these elections for both because the draft budget has not been adopted or if the guide depends now within the time limit if the elected leader is directly referred to the proposal again it is up to the president of that body to see when they call and which deadlines are there. So there's no fear of playing I don't know how many times he pulls up the amendments. It's a very clear thing here that we've had and it's a lot of suffering in history, let's just say... that's why the provoked election for the chiefs just because they didn't fit a certain option, that's how they bounce. Of course, it should show how much time it will be to the benefit of the citizens. No one can claim here right now that they know that somewhere it's gonna be good or not, I've already said it several times somewhere it's gonna show up... well but I believe there's going to be a situation where it's gonna be abused and where it's gonna be bad. But let's trust the government that it'll be more good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58916	Thank you. The response of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58917	Mr. Vice President. Perhaps you didn't hear me very well when I introduced myself, I said that the relationship between the representative and the executive body in the local self-government has the same meaning as the weight of the state-level relationship between the Parliament and the Government, so between the representative and the executive body is just the same meaning, not that it makes sense because of the different types of choices. But this game about the budget, I just wanted to point out that it's undefined how many times it can take to withdraw the budget and in which undefined deadlines the executive head can propose. So nowhere in this law does it say that the mayor or mayor can withdraw the proposal once. So of course the representative bodies will decide, perhaps at the end of the month or, as I said, one representative body I have on Monday is deciding on that budget and it is possible that they will accept it or not. But in case he does not accept it, of course, that it is still enough time for the executive body to react to some new proposal or not to accept amendments accepted by the representative body to withdraw the budget and refer it back to the procedure. Of course, it can be done in early December, it can be done even by mid-December, but the deadlines that are not to say give legal but also business defined in some self-governments are seven days, it is about ten days time for you to send the draft budget to the representative body and call for a new session of the representative body, but you will eventually decide on an emergency procedure on a budget that is not just a budget, there are proposals, public needs programmes. It's actually one book you get as a councilman in an even bigger local self-government about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58918	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor Podolnjak. You didn't talk about the terms of lex sheriff, lex farrah, but I'd say this law could call lex irreplaceable or non-replaceable. Since I'm a theologian, I'm going to be a little sarcastic, so we could call them lex innocuous or infallible because the law is so passed that almost whatever the mayor does is almost irreplaceable, he can't really make a mistake there. But all we have here is a repeat of one of those same mantras, which is stability. I have studied a little bit how many re-elections there have been in the last four years, we are below the European average. In addition, I think that stability is the characteristics of not exactly democratic regimes, and I would like to ask you a question to look at this law in the context of Vladimir Seks' announcement and the new Electoral Law that he has announced in some way and I say that the electoral threshold should rise to 7%. And apparently these stories have been repeated since the independent lists appeared since the Bridge, since the Living Wall appeared, because five years ago we didn't have that kind of thing. And besides being a little sarcastic again, the prime minister is the first to not be called on for stability because if the past government had been stable he would never have become prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58920	The response of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58921	Thank you. I deliberately don't use the term lex sheriff, deliberately out of respect for many commissioners, mayors and mayors who do their job very correctly, and therefore you won't hear that term from me. But I'm free to say that it's a law that makes these executive leaders immeasurable and untouchable, and it's simply not good because it erases any possible sanctions from anyone. And it can be finally, we'll see if this law may unfortunately be passed in a text like this, we'll see in a few years how many heads of the executive body would ever find themselves in a position to be relieved of their duties in any way. When citizens cannot do so through referendums, the representative body can no longer do so except in some sadomasochist attempt not to bring the budget twice after. If I were to see this representative body that will actually make citizens of their local self-government such a situation that twice in a row doesn't bring a budget, let's see this experiment that doesn't exist, of course, anywhere in Europe. But we're talented to use solutions for the first time. And in the end, imagine the situation that you'll have executive body leaders, for example, with a confirmed indictment of some crime without being able to do anything to him. In fact, no representative body can say we no longer want to work together, for example, with such a chief, mayor or mayor. There is no mechanism to replace it, there may be some serious crimes. You are, in fact, denying even what exists now that this bill is going on in the budget, although it has nothing to do with, for example, some incriminations that may be or may be, or that you have a mayor who gets a negative audit report, which causes it to become absolutely political, morally, ethically unacceptable to citizens and the representative body. This law disables any attempt at a shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58922	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58923	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Podolnjak. So in this debate of yours, you have very well highlighted the relationship between the representative body and the elected leader. Namely, what the minister said in his explanation when he spoke of the need for the adoption of this law and the fact that the representative body, its political composition does not have to reflect the will or support of the body leader himself. And in that sense, it has been really possible so far that on the basis of the budget it is actually to deny the trust of the head of the body. By voting the budget, he would have to re-election. However, the law defines that the only authorised proponent of the budget is the head, so the mayor, mayor and mayor. They are mandated budget promoters. We now have a situation in which you warn that it is based on all the amendments that we make to the representative body. He, of course, cannot accept these amendments, and in fact de facto becomes a representative body, an authorised draftr of the budget. It's not him anymore. Because these amendments can significantly change the budget he has proposed and then he can really withdraw his proposal, let him go to 31.12 so that the representative body cannot even meet in that case. And according to the provisions of this law, the representative body is disbanded because it has not adopted the budget. So what this law wants to achieve could turn against this law, so instead of having protection, actually protecting units of local self-government from unnecessary choices may happen to us that this is exactly what causes unnecessary elections because in today's situation many, many local self-government leaders actually do not have the support of the council. And then it would be much better, perhaps in the law, to introduce a provision that an authorised proposer may be a representative body. If the head of the body proposes such a budget which the representative body refuses to propose, then the budget shall be proposed by the representative body and the head shall decide whether to operate on that budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58924	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58925	Mr. Vice President, here's to answer your line and remind you of what's constantly being forgotten. The Republic of Croatia has ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government in full, all provisions. One of these provisions states that it is the representative body that decides on the public policies of its local self-government. And when you look at the provisions of individual laws and powers of the representative body, it decides on taxes, taxes, fees. It decides on a series of important decisions. It is not decided by the head of the executive body, he may suggest. But imagine what kind of budget the executive head will propose if it depends on the revenue side decided by the normative representative body. It determines whether or not there will be an amount of individual taxes, whether or not there will be a percentage of the income tax. So that's what the representative body decides. It's only authorized to decide on the revenue side. Well, of course, isn't it logical that it also decides on expenditure, on public policies and how these funds will be allocated to budget users and all others, on all other capital investments. So that's exactly what this is about. This is not the mayor's budget, because the budget of the representative body elected by all citizens. When you view the role of a representative body in this way, it is clear that it cannot be denied the decision on the budget and withdraw the budget when the representative body accepts amendments to that text. And then, of course, it's not logical for the only proposer to be chief, although he has, of course, administrative resources at his disposal because he's at the head of a administration that's actually doing the draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58926	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58927	Thank you very much. I don't think we should predict what's going to happen. Here I'll read you what the Most predicted before the local elections, and it didn't happen. Let's say here's one statement after the Most Presidency. These elections will show the victory of the Most Independent Lists and the victory of clean hands. We have hundreds of lists of MOST at Croatia level. Here is Marko Sladolev, the only real opposition to Milan Bandic and his strong team guarantees the surprise of the Zagreb elections. I expect Mira Bulja's victory, no one doubts that he will be mayor of the Split-Dalmatia County. A fierce battle will be in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where I will compete. Maro Kristic has a great chance of entering the second round in the city of Dubrovnik. Independent list of "Bura Change" with... And Dab will tear down the HDZ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Lika, he said, "Grmoya." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Miroslav Simic says of Slavonia: "Recent State Secretary Ruzica Vukovac is running for mayor, and Tomislav Panenic is almost certainly the new mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County." In the part where you said everyone would be making budgets on 31.12, because it's kind of a possibility that the amendments would be accepted by the representative body. The mayor, the mayor, the mayor will accept your amendments all if he wants to continue working on both him and the Council. If he won't, he'll show you right away, he won't wait for 31.12. Why does he want to accept it? Because there's a rebalancing over the year where they're going to tell you neatly that none of what you might have put as an amendment and what you accepted didn't happen. So you don't have to doubt that at all. And the 31.12 session was as long as you wanted. In large cities, last-minute budgets were adopted to avoid disbanding the current law and mayors and the City Council or the mayor and the municipal council. So that's not the way to think, but I say let's be constructive, we say what might not be good, not predicting any absurd situation that may arise. And concessions. Local head of the chimney concession and possibly someone trafficked on the road. If that's why we have to go to this if that's why we have to go to the municipal and city council meetings we can put it on, but there will certainly be no big debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58928	Thank you. The panel for the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58929	So, fellow Boric was speaking completely off topic, so he was reading some announcement of the election and possible results mean, which has nothing to do with what he said afterwards and the subject. If we're gonna pull out what anybody was talking about then we'd come, I don't know where we'd come from. And I was a colleague, Boric, convinced that I was entering a race where I could hardly win. But I did get into it. And that shows some courage. And the Bridge has reached 160 county councillors at Croatia level for your information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58930	Okay. I estimate that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, on either side and you have spoken beyond the subject of counterparts Grmoje and colleagues Boric spoke part of his speech outside the topic, but this is entering the scope of the democratic debate in parliament. But don't get rude to yell from the bench. This is all else entering the breadth of a democratic debate. So let's not throw it out of the bench. Let us now allow the esteemed representative of the Dolnik to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58931	...one piece was taken from me by my colleague, Grmoi, so there's no need for me to read that part. But you said a few interesting things, and here you finally mentioned if the problem is that the executive body decides on chimney services and concessions. But I remember as a councilman deciding on a concession for chimney services a few years ago. I don't know if the law has changed, but I don't see the need to change. Why shouldn't a representative body decide on any or even any tobacco services or taxi services or anything else. Therefore, simply the principled decision of a collective body in public cannot be a source of corruption, but a body when a person decides it is possible. And you said one thing that they did, it seems to me that first you mentioned it, but it's worth looking back at. You said that the head of the executive body would accept the amendments and that the budget would be passed but then, firstly, they would somehow boycott the implementation of that budget and he would say already through the rebalancing we did not realize what you in the budget plotted your amendments. In fact, you have admitted that the head of the executive body will in some way boycott such a budget will not execute what has been drawn up by the representative body. For example, those capital investments resulting from the amendments of the representative body will not work and you will actually have a conflict with the executive and representative body again. So is it interest to say that if a representative body installs a capital investment that it considers to be good for that local self-government it enters the budget, in public needs programmes, the mayor will block it, therefore, from carrying out activities to realise that capital investment. Is that a good thing? So local self-government is going to get hurt. The funds are insured in the budget, he's not going to implement it because it's not his project, who's going to get hurt? Citizens in that local self-government. But that can't be good, and that's exactly why I'm telling you it's a worse solution than you suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58932	And the last replica. Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58933	Dear colleague Poddolnjak, I listened carefully to your debate especially when you spoke and referred to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which you partly quoted by the laws. And in fact, in the entire debate, you point to stenuality, always some stenuality, suspicions of some people. The immediate election of mayors was made in 2009, until then there was one list, and if the mayor fell, the list also fell. At that time, we thought there would be no political trade, or that these political trades would shrink. From 2009 to 2017, in those 8 years, countless political trades occurred far more than by 93 years until 2009. When you talk about the Commissioner himself and the representative body, the captain in direct selection goes with the program in front of the citizens. So, he's got a program and he's going ahead of his citizens and that's why he got a mandate. A representative body can in any way especially when you have one or two possible council members who can tear down your budget, you have the following dialogues. Okay, you can do whatever you want, but you'll see that you're going to fall on the budget. So they're blackmailing the Chief with the budget. Well, the Chief's not crazy, let's just say that so he can do something against himself. The councilors who propose amendments, they are fighting for that political programme that entered that representative body and are in their interest that the chief is actually doing what's up to them to come to power tomorrow. It's your local democracy. So what you forgot to say in the introduction, which is subsidiarity. So you said everything nicely, but you're not that part about subsidiarity. And that's that the mayor can do anything. The mayor and the mayor can, but he can make all decisions on the municipal council as smart as he is. Both smart commissioners and mayors do that to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58934	Thank you. The answer to the representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58935	Mr. Vice President. I can only answer you that as you said the mayoral candidates go to elections with their program. But so do candidates for a representative body, whether as party lists, whether as independent lists, they also address citizens, get a certain number of votes, and when you finally have the composition of a representative body, you actually have what the citizens wanted in that representative body. So, in principle, it can be said that the legitimacy of choice from citizens is equal and that they have equal priorities for their programmes. However, it is clear that the Constitution and the European Charter have put the representative body first, and it has given the mayor the implementation of the programme. Of course, much of that public need program will likely be what it wants. But where wishes are not the same must ultimately be what the representative body proposes. It's still the body that makes the budget, and that's the only difference we've got. What we insist on is the responsibility of the head of the executive body, but that is his position under the law. He is now an individual, he makes up the executive body and you have probably noticed that in recent years you have far more situations in which this criminal responsibility of the head of the executive body because he is an individual. Sometimes you didn't have it in the case of chieftains. When the collective body made decisions, they always said, but it's a collective body. Maybe even the mayor left the session the moment she made a decision. Believe me, there were such arguments in certain court proceedings. Now only the mayor, the mayor, the mayor is responsible for the law and can in extreme circumstances and criminally respond. That responsibility is what this law gave him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58936	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the government, the Honored Minister Lovro Kuščević will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the presentation of the MOST club. I just need to look at it for a little while. The e-consultation I explained, so I unfoundedly reject, the Constitution, is in line with the Constitution we've also already been exposed, there's no need to repeat myself. Ping-pong, of course there's ping-pong and options one, two three. We wouldn't be here until morning if we were to list what if this one, if this one, this one, this one doesn't support and pulls, this one adds. We won't be out of here until morning. We won't be out of here for three days. Therefore, there is a possibility and what is different, and this law regulates and solves all of this in the best possible way. You're telling the government's commissioner that it's some kind of direct influence from the government and some sort of expression of the government's position that he wants to manage something. Well, this is exactly what we depolitized that commissioner with. Just when we said it had to be VSS, it had to be the head of the municipality and the city, the county. If not, a member, therefore, of the Office of State Administration, who is in that county. That's why we broke out of the government's hands so he could broadcast someone on the political line he wants and how he wants, but we prescribed who. So this is where we just kicked the government out of hand so it could politicize when the commissioner was appointed. As far as senior administrative departments are concerned, it will increase expenditure. There is, there is a Mr. Podolnik of good, valuable, working and wealthy units of local self-government that have less than 3,000 inhabitants and who needs it. Here's what I'm going to say to my Brač Bol, 20 million kuna, the original budget, and it has 1,500 inhabitants. So why not give them the opportunity to have the Tourism Management Department that they live on, and that it will increase the expenditure and that it will require central government assistance for these salaries is not true, because exactly by law they are limited salaries to 20% and there is no possibility of such things happening. Penalty report, referendum it is to discuss a referendum. Penalty, everyone is innocent until proven guilty by a judicial verdict contrary. And this concession, I can see that this is unclear and that part of the parliamentary deputies and MPs is misunderstood. So, when we changed this concession, we threw out the word, so that's what the article lists the incomes of the unit of local and regional self-government. Right? So as revenues, the list of concessions was listed there by the representative body. We erased the representative body. Why? Well, we're about to help local self-government units, because there are concessions that don't come from a representative body. And then what? They're not income units of local self-government? Do you understand? So, you're completely wrong, you're wrong about the subject, you've reversed the thesis. It is not about who brings concessions, it is about whether or not some concessions brought by the Government, and it is about the area of the local self-government unit becoming the income of the local self-government unit. So, the more you twisted it, obviously it wasn't clear enough so far. It was deleted only by the representative body so as to know that other concessions were the income of that unit of local self-government. So we didn't hit the core. And secondly here we are still staying an interesting debate. Let's just keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58938	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58939	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Kuščević, it is clear that this legislative proposal 10, 15 years ago would make no sense to talk. Democracy in Croatia is developing. One of the predecessors in the interview said there was also populism, but it is just inevitable that the leader elected in the local elections must get 50% + one vote because otherwise he cannot be elected. However, representatives of the council can be selected with a certain percentage and can be from the same option as the leader who was elected directly. So what we notice in many units of local self-government is that there are no more cases where one political option has an absolute majority. So it's mostly representative bodies where in order to get to the majority you have to make certain concessions. In that sense, and I see this desire of yours to make it possible for a captain who doesn't have a majority in the council to somehow survive. Now, is that in accordance with the Constitution, is that in accordance with the Charter we'll just see it because the representative body is what it must, which actually has full legitimacy to decide everything that happens in the field of that representative body. I've told you before. They once saw me, so my colleagues looked at me strangely when I said so, and why would a person running for mayor of the municipality have to have problems with what's on that municipality? And according to this now, he can bring in quite, he can bring in a budget that actually affects the rights of people who pay taxes in that area. And just one specific question, you didn't answer me. Thus, the provision under which municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants no longer have to have a single administrative department is amended. What's going to happen to those leaders? If indeed the head of the municipalities decides not to have a single management department, he can form other boards of directors and what happens to the head of the single management department?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58940	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, in this short time of 2 minutes, it is impossible to respond to everything Mr. Minister mentioned, but here is just saying a few things he said for example about the Commissioners' Institute appointed by the Government in case there is no executive body leader and his deputy. He said the minister could be appointed prime minister of the local self-government unit and thus wanted to depolitise the Commissioner's institute. Then you have a little catch, and the little catch is in the rule, and when you put it in the rule, it's often not the rule, but it turns out to be something else. Then be consistent and get rid of this as a rule. For example, counseling with an interested public must take 30 days, according to the Law on the right to access information, and then we come today with this law that was 15 days because it was not in the rule but it was extremely 15 days. Or you have a provision, this is interesting, you can't be appointed by the government's commissioner if he's being prosecuted and therefore convicted of criminal acts. Interestingly, therefore, the Commissioner cannot take office to replace the head of the executive body, but the head of the executive body may be the head of the executive body if criminal proceedings are conducted against him. What kind of paradox is that? So one can, the other can't. So we should consistently resolve this situation so that no one can be led, whether as elected leader or as the one appointed by the Government, if a criminal case is conducted against him. So a consistent solution when you've already installed this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58942	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58943	Dear Vice President, there is no minister now, the minister spoke of the representative body and its powers. I'd like to say a few words about councilman and compensation. I think the councilman has been elected for a full term of four years to work 365 days a year and 24 hours a day. That's what he needs to be paid for. Every job that's paid for is done in quality and the one that's not paid for is scrapped. I believe that there is no reason to pay MPs or councilors upon coming to the session but to be able to resolve it in a way that pays the cobwebs monthly and to determine the frameworks. On the other hand, it can also be solved in a way that if you want to encourage council members to come to the meetings in a way, and we have in such a way resolved if the session is every 2 months, there is no reason not to release 200, 300 kuna per month to the council, depending on how much a flat-rate or 300 kuna per month or 600 kuna per session is determined. So there's no reason why it has to be done exclusively in the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58944	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58945	Your Excellency, I remember when I spoke on the topic of local elections a long time ago, and then I warned MOST that there was a general centralization of power and power in action and that by its law that would throw Andra Vlahusic out of the race for the mayor of Dubrovnik would actually bring HDZ to power. And now HDZ has taken advantage of them, liquidated Andra Vlahusic from the election race and has now maximumed his powers and powers. And this law that pushed the bridge, these reforms actually brought HDZ to power in the first phase and made another government make it actually autocratic I don't know what to say, manage, where actually all power is in the hands of one man. I personally believe that if someone is elected mayor and has a majority that nothing is disputed. This law will actually be controversial in cases where there are no majority in the council and where actually the mayor will be able to counter-will in some way the citizens decide, because in the second round of elections when choosing the mayor's turnout is less. You have a situation where greater legitimacy because of turnout has, say, a city council than I am mayor. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58946	Thank you. The last replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58947	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here we heard from the minister, here we call for the stability of local self-government, so it turns out that from the state level, there's a desire for stability and local self-government. I just don't know how to implement it, I think how to implement it and balance it into being a representative body. No one can say that the representative body was not chosen by the citizens. The representative body was also elected by the citizens as mayor. Maybe the problem is that we don't have preferential votes, which we don't have the possibility of citizens choosing a representative body because of the balance of one and the other. This gives too much power and basically in that capacity if we also give supervisory authorities, administrations in companies and societies to appoint only mayor, and concessions we know what the Golden War was mainly down in the counties where HDZ was in power in which it worked... If we strengthen this and if the representative body loses that power that my people have to control that entire system, if we give it all power, we centralize one person, then that representative body doesn't really have to choose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said earlier that it would be best just to call the mayor's election because the representative body absolutely has no authority, no balance has been found because the mayor doesn't go to the election and the representative body goes, i.e. Council or assembly. Therefore, I believe this law was made for the sake of stability but the government of Andrej Plenkovic. He doesn't want to be on the local board of any elections, so he doesn't accidentally swing the ratings. This is exclusively a law for the stability of Andrej Plenkovic so that his rating is not shown in Split, somewhere where there will be elections. So it's exclusively written law not to make any choices, from local committees to small municipalities. Only to preserve Andrej Plenkovic and his stability that we see led to what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58948	Thank you. We will now go to the next Club of Representatives and this is that of HDS, HSLS, HDSSB in the name of which time will be shared by respected representatives Kosor and Hrg. First of all, the Honorable Representative Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58949	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, MPs of Parliament. By listening to today's debate, none of the representatives' clubs and MPs are satisfied with the existing rule of law. Most suggest changes because they are not satisfied and the opposition on the other hand also speaks about the lack of legislation. When you have such a problem that almost all the MPs and all the clubs and all the parties are not satisfied then you need a new law, then you do not need amendments and additions to the law but you need a new law that will essentially change all of this with which we are all unhappy together. Normally, everyone is dissatisfied from their own corner, and great dissatisfaction exists, and that's a fact. When new laws or amendments and additions of laws are passed, we always come from why they are passed and what improvements they are. It is clear here that these amendments and additions are only to be made to the budget once and for this budget which must now be adopted in municipalities, cities and counties for 2017. It's never good in my personal opinion to change the laws for a one-time thing. The laws should be long-term, should be adopted primarily for citizens' sake, and we here have a proposal that we heard from the Prime Minister's opening debate that a new draft of the whole law will be given next year and that in these amendments and complements we go only, he did not say it in a statement but only for the sake of the budget that will be adopted now. I think it's one of the great shortcomings in this amendment. On the other hand, we need to see what the positive consequences are. I think we're making changes to the law or new laws to do something positive. I don't see these positive consequences. So on the one hand, we have political habits in our municipalities, cities, counties, and we have already had one imbalance between councils, mayors, mayors and mayors. No matter what I think, they're both the same because they're both chosen by the citizens. So that's where I disagree with the debates that council members are less important than the mayors and mayors because they are directly elected and have their post, the mayors and mayors are also directly elected, they should not be underestimated in any way and have any other executive function. Now here's the representative before me talking about what powers all the mayors and mayors and mayors have. So it's not just a matter of making decisions in a representative body. So many cities have their own communal societies, so mayors and mayors are the presidents of the congregations of these societies. They determine administrative councils in kindergartens, schools, in many other institutions. So it was passed on to them a few years ago. So in this sense, they decide for themselves, and now even if they were to propose a budget, if the budget hadn't been adopted, the fact that they were to disband themselves or the assembly or whatever body they were to remain. Looking at the mentality of our people, they always recognize the winners. In a way, the mayors and mayors would be the winners of this struggle, the conditional struggle between councils or city halls and mayors. If the election for the council were repeated in general, it would happen that the list of these mayors and mayors would get a bigger result because the perception of our citizens that whoever remains is the winner and the one who disbands is the loser. I speak a little folk language because that is the mentality of our citizens and our people. That wouldn't be a good message. Because there must be a balance between those two equally selected bodies. And I think it would be best if this proposal were withdrawn. I was talking here on behalf of the club about the shortcomings, and now I'm going to say that if it stays the same, I can't support it as a representative, it has nothing to do with most or opposition, but the quality of the proposal. The best thing to do is to step down and get a quality proposal for a new structure and a leg of the way of choice next year. If we keep the existing way for mayors and mayors to choose directly then we have to do it so that this game is as fair as possible. If we're going to completely change this law and return it to the old system that the mayors and mayors are choosing from the parliamentary majority then it takes an absolutely new... What's going to happen in practice? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going to happen is that we're going to have a budget proposal, we heard here from Mr. Dolnjak that he will be able to withdraw several times. The same will be political negotiations as they are now and under existing law. No mayor, I assure you, will ultimately not propose a budget because there is no sanction for execution. Mr. Buric said something about it. So that's what's going on and in the capital here I've been the president of the second parliament in the Republic of Croatia for three years. So there's no responsibility under the law to carry out the budget. And in principle, you can adopt any budget as a representative body, the mayor can agree with it or the mayor agrees, then does not execute it, find certain arguments why he did not execute it, mostly at 10 or 12 months two rebalancings go into these two rebalancings, all irons, harmonizes etc. So my opinion has been changed or there has been no change to this law practice will be identical. All the mayors and mayors, the mayors will propose budgets, no one will engage in the game not to propose because there is no sanctions if he proposes it and does not execute it later. So the proposals will go and certainly there will be no new elections just for the mayors, mayors and mayors because everyone will go with the proposals. Only the position of the council will be reduced or city halls in the city of Zagreb because it is out of political mentality that certain council members will calculate with the fact that they do not want new elections because there are no competitions for mayors, mayors or mayors in these new elections and I do not know what we have promoted in a democratic sense. We have only strengthened the powers of the mayor and the mayor, and we have two equally important institutions for me, Parliament, Assembly, or city and municipal councils, and on the other hand the mayors, mayors and mayors. And in that sense, we have weakened control, the council has great powers, the mayors and the mayors through all these other bodies means from congregations, municipal societies, administrative councils, etc. And we've weakened control, we've weakened these representative bodies. I certainly cannot advocate as a liberal that representative bodies are weakened, because in everything in life, and in politics, and especially in politics, when this balance is lost between the two equal bodies, nothing can be good. So, these remarks are our commons on behalf of the club, and this is my personal opinion, so as an individual representative, that if the amendment and addition of the law remains as it is that it applies only once to the 2018 budget, we do not have a full-scale reform, and we have heard here from the minister that it is not about reform simply such a proposal to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58950	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Branko Hrg will now continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58951	Thank you very much. Darinko fit perfectly in at the time. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue in this part of my colleague Kosor said some common views and said that part about his separate opinion as a representative and party leader of our club's party. Who will benefit from these changes and the addition of whether local leaders or representative bodies? After 16 and almost half years of the mayor's duties and participation in the work of representative bodies at the local level since '93. I'd say no one's going to have much use for it. But these amendments to the law will certainly force more co-operation of local leaders with people from representative bodies, from the Council and the County Assembly. That's a fact. This will particularly reflect on local self-governments where independent local leaders are elected and where they have lists of independent council members, because they of course do not function in a party system by some hierarchy, but also represent therefore personal interests as independent council members. It will be very interesting to observe the very segment that will happen. What I am looking at in the amendments to this law is the fact that the head of the local self-government will no longer be able to provoke elections by not proposing the budget, and that is not bad. That's good for me. The appointment of Commissioners of the proposal proposed in these amendments to the law is not bad. He is certainly an improved proposal compared to the previous one, and I will argue that with a small, concrete example. In a small municipality there in my cross-country two years ago, a man who was once mayor of the Križevci was appointed to the commissioner, who was replaced by the minister of the administration for malfeasance with the city's budget. Politics later appointed him Commissioner in this small municipality that he doesn't even live in. So, according to this now that such things are proposed, they shouldn't be happening anymore. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the existing law is proposed or defined by the granting of a semi-annual report by the head of the units of local self-government according to the representative body. That's one of the bigger craps in the law, I have to say. Because these half-year reports are nothing more than budget reports and now you have two documents. You have a report on budget implementation, budget implementation and half-yearly and you have a half-yearly report from the head. Twice the same story. For what? I don't think she's clear, I don't know. Maybe in some future time it's worth taking care of. It was here in the debates already over that model that two-thirds of the members of the representative body could launch the impeachment of the head of local self-government. And it might be good for the future to think about it a little bit and maybe make something like this happen after all. Not that I can change, but that I can initiate a referendum procedure or something else but that should go to ask a question of trust. Since the whole new law is announced, then I am free to suggest on behalf of our club even with what my colleague Kosor was saying earlier. Perhaps some of them might already be under consideration until another reading. What bothers the most about local self-government leaders? We have a situation that, by law, an existing local self-government leader doesn't have to come to work at all, doesn't have to come to work. Put the possibility that he'll be a professional and he doesn't have to come to work anymore. I think there's a hole in the law here and it needs to be changed maybe already in this section until the second reading. Professionalism in local self-government units, the question of virtually all issues, perhaps in laws relating to this part. Imagine the situation that the Chief and Deputy Chief in some small municipality both or both of them can be professionals, by their own free will. If in Gradićim, Croatia is practically full of Gradića, I will say so and my belongings to that category, there is the possibility of having 3 professionals. A city with a 50 million budget with 20,000 inhabitants can have 3 professionals. It's a case in the Cross now. First time since '93. Mr. Never Were Three Professionals. I'm absolutely in favor of being mayor. But to be three professionals in such cities, that doesn't make sense. And by my judgment, the law should define how many of these professionals can be. Make it two deputies, I don't mind. But they really have to be professionals? I don't think so, and I think that's something to think about. Especially in small municipalities. And lastly, the protection of local self-government leaders after the term of office. For six months, they have the right to receive wages if they were professionals, and for a year they can't be employed in a company, a company, somewhere that has business connections. Have we allowed these people to go on the market for six months or to change the provisions of those six months or to change the provision that they can go after those six months? That really doesn't make any sense. And finally I'll just say, it's not the same representative body and it's not the same head of local self-government. So, full responsibility for the law is always at the head of local self-government. He's a responsible person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58952	Thank you. Now, here's the deal. We've got a first line on the presentation of the esteemed representative, Darinko Kosor. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58953	My colleague Kosor would agree with your debate in full. Of course, the representative body here doesn't have the attribute that's being passed here by law. Because he was chosen by a nation leader, and as a representative body he was not chosen by the people and he can be disbanded for the acceptance of the budget. So just that body, represented, that's why I'm saying it would've been a better tendency if they'd said, "You shouldn't, in this law, a representative body." Because really in 560 and some municipalities, local self-government and county, all these councilmen, are simply humiliated by this law. As a political subject of the representatives of the people. Who are delegated by the people to be in the congregations. And this is only primary, which is why the current government doesn't respond to instability. There must not be an election on the local board, so that some tendency, political preferences, don't go in the wrong direction. Elections must not appear. Even for the europarliament, it's possible not. So it wouldn't happen by chance to see the HDZ fall. Of course, it's important to them. To them it's important to compare my result that got 62000 voted, entered the second round, as lost to the mayor, I'm an absolute winner and that's how I feel. And Stromana, the man who lost, who was in power, is named Deputy Prime Minister. Who lost power, was in power, it's perfectly normal. It's okay with them. They answer to political stability, silence, peace. Not political stability for the development of democracy. This is a murder of democracy. This is the Pharaoh system. Well, during ancient Greece, Rome, they were Senate councils. And Pharaoh, they came back three, four thousand years after, and then the Pharaoh system was chosen, and it would have been fairer to the councilmen, the congregationarians, if you had said no, and the mayors would have determined their bodies, their heads, and so it would work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58954	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58955	So I would just like to give another clarification in the roles of councils and city halls. So it is not true that the Council and the Assembly of the City of Zagreb do not have any authority. According to the Statute of the City of Zagreb, the president of the city's assembly is in charge of implementing decisions taken in the city's assembly. And in the City of Zagreb, all decisions over a million kuna are made in the city hall. So he is also in charge of the implementation of the budget adopted by the Assembly. Do you know what tools the president of the City of Zagreb City Assembly or any of the presidents of any other council to ensure the implementation of those decisions? Nothing. A third of the decisions in the City of Zagreb in the term of office of 3 years that I chaired have not been implemented and the president of the Assembly or the president of a council has no tools to control that implementation. On the other hand, there is no responsibility for the failure of the budget by the mayor and the captain. So if the budget isn't implemented, there's absolutely no responsibility. As a rule, rebalancing changes are made. Here's an explanation to Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58956	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58957	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Kosor, you said you couldn't support these amendments and additions to the law, so if they were brought in, we'd have losers, winners and losers. Namely, if it does not adopt a city council, or municipal council or county assembly budget, how they will be disbanded. They'll be losers, and we'll have the mayors, the mayors and the mayors. You talked further about responsibility, equality of the body and so on. Don't you think it's precisely these changes and additions that we get stronger responsibility and equality of the body. If the mayor, i.e. the head of the executive body proposes a budget, did he do his part of the job? I think so. If, through the amendment, the representative body corrects it however it wishes, of course within the legal frameworks and returns it to the executive body and withdraws its proposal, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and the mayor will re-emerge. And in case the representative body doesn't want to adopt the budget, or model it however it wants the representative body to be resolved. I think that these very changes and additions lead to stronger responsibilities for each individual and for the equality of those two bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58958	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Darinko Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58959	So today there has been a lot of talk that the councils or councils or councils should negotiate with the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, I absolutely agree with that. Well, I guess no one's going to the polls to tear down executive power in a year. I'm talking about all those people who are responsibly accessing the political work we're dealing with. But look also at our country-level relationship, someone here today miscompared the Prime Minister who is elected by Parliament and Parliament, but we have a president who is elected directly and performs his duty to the Constitution, and we are doing our duty here in the Croatian Parliament towards the Constitution. And I hope that neither you nor I nor anyone who is here is considered less valuable than the president who has been elected to another post directly from the citizens because we have been elected directly from the citizens and we have a very important role, and that is the adoption of all the laws. The laws refer to the everyday life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So every body in political life has its function. No one is worth more or less to me, we're all elected by certain laws or the Constitution and we're acting our function. You were here talking about the relationship between the councils of mayors and mayors, so normally I said it in my presentation, of course that all the mayors, the mayors, said your HDZ colleague, would propose a budget because they have no responsibility if he does not meet in the next year and generally happens and changes rebalancing. And the council, if they don't vote, has a concrete consequence, which is that they're no longer councilmen. In the mentality of our people when you are no longer something, when you are no longer in power, you are a loser, and the one who remains in power is the winner. I was just talking about it, and we can't change this perception here, so think 90% of Croatian citizens and voters, and in this sense surely these changes weaken the position of the council or city council and strengthen the position of mayors and mayors even because I said that they do not only have the powers of executive authorities but also the congregations of commercial societies and choose the administrative councils, I think except in culture everyone else chooses directly without parliament, without parliaments, without councils, etc. This is another strengthening of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58960	Thank you. Now on the esteemed representative Branko Hrg, again, there is a replica of the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58961	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you said it was pointless to submit half-yearly mayoral reports when we already have half-yearly budget reports. I would not agree with that, is that all projects are almost in some way linked to the budget and are linked to the financial resources, but e.g. The town of Vodice had a past term and is still under construction of the sewer system. The first phase of construction of a 147 million kuna sewer system is something that does not go through the city budget at all. It's okay for councilmen to be informed at what stage this project is. Construction of the Vodice bypass, a project that was fully funded from the European funds from Croatian roads, also did not go through the budget. So I don't find it pointless for the mayor to report every six months, a year to his city council on what he's done over the past period, because there are certain projects not to say from those in the social community and the like that that doesn't go through the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58962	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Brank Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58963	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, there you are absolutely right, I'm saying this just as you do in practice. The fact is, then, in that mid-year or annual report, the head of local self-government mentions all the activities he had and the fact is that then the opposition in the representative body also attacks because it says, and why you're saying it now, and that's not part of the city's work at all because it doesn't go through the budget. So that's the thing that's coming. Every head of local self-government will absolutely be used for reporting to the public just this part, just like you were talking about projects in Vodice I could thus talk about some projects in Križevci and all the criticisms that came after that. But, realistically, the head of local self-government and the adoption of the budget and the report on the implementation of the budget is able to mention and specify all these projects. I'm not saying it's not very good, but I repeat that 90% of that report refers to the 90% budget, and 10% refers to the other side, which is basically some projects that go by, for which the local self-government leader had to fight hard to reach, it's absolutely true. But I'm saying, there's an opportunity in this and a draft budget and in the budget report, an additional little programmic to describe it and give your judgment on it in the context I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58964	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, I first opened the topic this morning, i.e. the possibility that the head of the unit of local or regional self-government can be recalled by the representative body. Why did I say that? I don't think it's very good that the destruction of a representative body or executive head is happening on a basic financial document and that just for political disagreements or some other reason, there is no budget of the unit of local self-government which is a fundamental development act, the basic financial document of the unit of local self-government to bring down either the representative body or the head of the unit of local self-government. I think if the individual head of the executive authority in the local or regional self-government unit has done some illegal work that may only later be prosecuted and resolved by the judiciary, if he has lost confidence, if any event has happened why he is considered guilty, I think that by qualified majority, the two-thirds or three-quarters leave the possibility for the representative body to initiate the procedure of his recall. Where it is referred to in Article 105, the Commission shall adopt The Constitution may raise two-thirds of parliamentary deputies at a certain point to raise the question of the responsibility of the President of the State to the Constitutional Court and two-thirds of the Constitutional Judges, and since then the President of the State has no longer been able to act in office. If we in the Parliament can initiate the procedure of impeaching the Prime Minister and it is enough for the majority of all parliamentary deputies to tear down the government, then I see why it would thus be the leader of the unit of the area, or local self-government, although it was chosen directly why it would be protected in such a way. I don't speak in advance now which is a partial majority but here's to discussing it until the second reading to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58966	The answer to the esteemed Brank Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58967	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic, I listened to your line when you put it out, and that's why I once again apostropheed that part and I said it was absolutely correct and it's on the right track. 'Cause that's actually a deal even with the way we choose. Parliament is elected on the lists, the president is elected directly, the representative body is elected on the lists, the head of local self-government is elected directly. So it's very similar actually to the local level of transmission. And I absolutely support that, and I think it should be built in order to actually reduce a series of criticisms that are now and on this bill of amendments are actually being addressed. And on the other hand, let me put it this way, that the head of local self-government who can't in his municipal or city council or the county council provide the required majority, simply paralyzes the system and local regional self-government, and it's better to get to the elections as soon as possible than to keep such a paralyzed system going. Each head of local self-government shall, of course, also have the obligation to achieve a majority in its representative body in order to carry out projects and programmes drawn up in cooperation with the representative body. And I don't see any big problems here, and I think this is a good proposal and that we should put it into law until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58968	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58969	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, you spoke in your discussion of professionalism, i.e. The professionalism of the executive body, the mayor and his deputies. Here I'll tell you my example, from your community. And there's a problem with the law, which means the law determines that he pays if the deputy professional can be up to 0.85% of the captain's salary. For six months now, here yesterday I managed to make that decision finally on the council after some were annulled because they were illegal, nothing obliges the council to pay, pay, and that may take an entire term of office. And you, when you set yourself up by law, and you have to do this 8 days after the official results are published, you have to make a statement if you're going to volunteer, if you're going to be a professional, you have to start with your incomes, gifts, etc. the contributions, etc. So here's my suggestion to the ministry, and I was talking to them about the law. The state office in Rijeka has annulled a decision that was embarrassing, so that you as a council can determine I don't know the deputy chief's salary of 100 kuna. I mean, it's below every level and it doesn't contribute to solving the problem. So there must be quality solutions that will not limit the independence of both the commissioner and the deputy but also the representative body and its roles. Whether the Council only gives consent, whether this must be settled immediately at a first session after the constitution that this act must be adopted. Because we have different cases, and if we as leaders estimate that this budget can be, that it can carry two salaries that you have in many cases both mayors and deputies. But if someone is a volunteer, so I think someone has to be a professional in that local self-government and if they're all volunteers then we can already say it in one direction, regardless of the responsibility that a local self-government leader is wearing, the question is what is the moment of his will and that something works the way it should be and whether it's practical.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58970	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed Brank Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58971	We are absolutely on the same track, and I also said in my debate that I have nothing against local self-government leaders being particularly professional and that they are adequately rewarded for their work. But we definitely have a situation that we have really small units of local self-government, small municipalities that are even in some situations less than they used to be local communities in that system until 93. And that you have the opportunity to have two professionals there on the budget of someone who's so minor. The other problem you have listed is exactly the one where the representative body is how much co-habitation with the head of local self-government can really degrade, therefore, the role of the head of local self-government and that should be prevented. It is simply necessary to prevent this law from being determined that a representative body cannot take a decision under the minimum laid down by law. There are still a number of problems, I'm really looking forward to, let's just say that this is some pre-determination of the future law in the extreme case, because there's really a lot of work to do, especially in that part of professionalism. It's not the same if there's a city that pays a year from I don't know, 600 thousand kunas or a million kunas go to pay. In four years it's a big difference, it's a big difference, and the current law makes it possible. And these changes aren't going to prevent that kind of thing either of which you're talking about or the ones that I'm talking about in this second part. And I think we should do a little bit of the same as the number of deputies determined by the size of local self-government, so something should be done on the salaries of professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58972	Thank you. We will now go to the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58973	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we discuss as we know about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. There are a dozen, fifteen amendments concerning I don't know the heraldic features, referendums, some fees, changes in terms, I don't know the local committees, etc. which are more or less, more or less okay. There are no major changes. However, the part which is the very taste of this law is probably also the reason why it refers to which is also called lex sheriff, lex phara, or who will, which refers to the relationship, the relationship between the mayor and the mayor and the respective council of city, municipal or county. I'd just like to say in what context this law comes in. So we have this class of 428 municipalities, 128 cities, 20 counties. We have small municipalities, a municipality of only a few hundred inhabitants whose situation is catastrophic. So the population has been falling for many years, somewhere for decades and decades of young people. There may be only a few. Professional capacities are questionable, i.e. how many capable people in general have to build a project, finance themselves. One example of the municipality that is in major problems is the municipality of Ribnik in Karlovac County and the municipality of five hundred inhabitants. If I remember there are about twenty inhabitants under 20, there are plenty of settlements that are empty, where no more people live. And what about that community in five or ten years? According to the current system, units of local self-government are very questionable. And what will happen to the town of Karlovac, which has 50,000 inhabitants in this system, let alone small municipalities. I have nothing against the municipalities, or the cities, or the county that the system works. However, we are in a system that does not work, a system that applies all these criteria that I said, so a lack of staff and capacity to create a project. Then the outpouring of the population, the inability to make the proceeds of municipalities and cities or counties that belong to them to be charged, are exploited. So there's a whole series of problems. On the other hand, we have the awakening of nepotism, clientelism. On the one hand, we are talking about decentralisation that cannot come from either the HDZ or the SDP governments. On the other hand, we've never had more municipalities. Therefore, decentralisation is not at all related to the number of units of local self-government but to their functionality. Here or by the government there is no will to reform the unit of local self-government they do not believe they have the courage to touch into their electoral body, which is largely related to functions and jobs, including projects in units of local self-government. So it's some kind of attempt at reform, some little coordination. European standards or what your esteemed IMF institutions, the World Bank, tell you, I don't know the European Commission that you normally appreciate, not in these things. It doesn't seem to matter here. I don't appreciate their opinions, but I think every Croatian citizen who thinks logically knows that this situation is unsustainable. But we're not going to discuss this reform now, we're going to go for a taste of this law. We once had a law under which the mayor chose between councilmen, from the ranks of councilmen. Then came the reform. We have a system in which the executive authority is particularly chosen, so legislative authority is chosen. And now we would go into some third model in which we would choose a special legislative authority again, but this executive power would get significantly more responsibility, significantly less rights. When you have all the responsibility on one side, we're talking about dictatorship. When on the other hand we have all the rights to any responsibility, we are talking about anarchy. All between that and somewhere is democracy. My view of the current system is that the mayors are gonna say, for example, from the mayor's little dictators. After they pass the budget, they can actually do almost anything they want. The Council, of course, works its own course, must confirm all sorts of decisions, from some decisions for kindergartens to decisions concerning other matters. However, by amending the law, mayors and mayors would become major dictators. Who would dare if this amendment of the law passes by to tear down the budget? Who would dare break the budget, if that means staying without a chair. When you look from the positions of parties that have large infrastructures, which have existed for decades, I don't know if in a town of 25 councilmen someone has in power 13, there is a stable majority and this law will not apply to it, it can rule peacefully for 4 years. But what if he's 12 or 11 councilmen and he doesn't have enough, so he has to go to some coalitions, deal. God forbid corruption, trade, blackmail, or any other way to put together most of these questions now raises the question of how this law will apply to them. Who will dare to ask or demand some of their budget changes, if this means losing a seat in such a council, municipal, county or city. If this means a fall in the budget of the reset system. The mayor wouldn't answer for anything, the councilmen would be responsible for everything. Although it would be on some let's say HDZ, which is, has a strong local infrastructure if the story spins again and the elections are again likely to win back in that case some 12, 13 councillors. It's around here somewhere. It means either the SDP at the other end of Croatia, or the HNS or IDS. But what about so-called. third options, what about independent lists, what about small parties that have councilors or two, and which are often crucial especially in smaller towns and municipalities to draw up most of the budget? In that case, if they are not bought or can't agree with them, what the mayor is doing is going to the elections again, there is nothing happening to him, and there is a great danger that these independent councilors or members of the small parties will disappear. So, what's going on here? The partytocracy, the rule of two major parties, is being choked by democracy and the development of democracy, except that we see this principle in this reform in an attempt to reform the units of local self-government we see such tendencies and at other levels, so it is said that the Croatian president should be elected in the Croatian Parliament, separated from the will of voters, to be elected by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And we know how far a representative's will can be remote or dislocated from the will of Croatian voters. This was best seen in the mood, let's say, of the people who joined the European Union, how much for, how much for, how much was the ratio in the Croatian Parliament or now in the euro by some kind of research, how many people are for the euro or against, how much is the projection of their representatives here. And on a number of other issues. We also have Mr. Seks' announcements, which I believe has a huge impact on this government, especially on Mr. Plenkovic, that a two-party should be introduced into Croatia. Watch out. That same few parties that are now trying to get independent lists that you're trying to choke on a local level. That they need to be choked, tightened with their necks and at national level. Let us raise the threshold to 7%% and anyone below should not enter the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Seks apparently imagined that HDZ and SDP should rule forever in Croatia. Yes, like the sun and the moon, which seem to revolve in the sky, so they should change. If there was never a third option, there should be no interference. And instead of being allowed to go to this other side of democratisation, it goes to this other side of totalitarianism and it goes closer to this side of dictatorship. Instead of allowing the new generation to make political changes, the electoral system is being changed or election system changes are announced at all levels, the presidential, parliamentary, local, to suppress such tendencies. To send that message that Andrew Hebrang sent long ago that only through large parties can something be done in politics. It's a very difficult message, it's a path to dictatorship. I'm not going to say dictatorship, but that way. Where you'll stop it will be seen. I don't like this at all. The thesis mentioned in the law is the creation of a new balance mechanism of two bodies. This and the current system isn't ideal, but it's better than the previous one and it's better than the one you want to change now. What a balance there is now. By voting this law, she will be completely lost. Instead of pursuing a system that will work both politically and financially and demographically in any other way, no, we are further digging ourselves in. Instead of democracy, we tend to be part of democracy, instead of freedom, we seek totalitarianism with this law. I don't know if you've been following your HDZ colleagues, you've lost power in these elections in Gospic and Knin, the new mayor you know what he's proposing, e-referendum. It suggests establishing a platform on the internet on which citizens will be able to vote on various decisions. That's the way to direct democracy. Instead of going towards direct democracy, we are not going back. First we'd go to the two-ways, and maybe somewhere in Mr. Shex's brains he's dreaming of a one-sided, is this a cross-step to one-sided? If that's how you say it, immediately declare that law and finish the story, don't drag us away. Therefore, there are these three tendencies at a higher level. Instead of being guided by what the whole world is slowly seeking, there are media that will not be in the service of corporations but who will be free media, truly free, where citizens will be able to choose the content they want because they will be properly informed of not indoctrinated or disinformed, so that on the basis of the referendums they make decisions we are going in the opposite direction. Switzerland has a dozen and more referendums per year. If I'm not mistaken, one was whether you need more music in schools. Sounds funny or banal, but there you go. Advanced countries go in that direction to ask citizens about as many things as possible. Yes, of course it costs, but if we're going to go with the principle of costing then let's get rid of these parliamentary elections, they cost the same. So if we're going to have a democratic system some expenses he has to have. The mention of instability was deplaced, we had just as many as 50 cases of council crash in local self-government units in four years. That means about 2.5% a year. It's not alarming at all, that argument just doesn't stand. He's disappearing. So far, the council is especially there, of course, where one party does not dominate, the council has been corrective to the mayor. And he was kind of corrective to that council. It's gone now. Almost all power is placed in the hands of the mayor, and the council becomes irrelevant, even almost superfluous. So, if you don't like my budget, colleagues and fellow councilmen, then I will disband you and I will disband you only once, but who knows maybe you'll change the law soon, so there will be an infinite number of times disbanding the council, until some council comes along to say so, you're mayor right, this is your best budget. It's not democratic and it's a simple step back. Imagine a case for the Croatian Parliament if the prime minister were elected directly and we know that he is not, but if he were here we would reject the budget and then we would all go to the elections, and Mr. Prime Minister remains the prime minister. And then if he doesn't like the new Parliament and the new council that comes, then disband him, so until there's someone he likes. That's some extreme we might expect someday. Therefore, the Living Wall and Power Club will not support this law. Why he came right now and for whom he was written, we'll probably find out soon enough. It was probably written for the City of Zagreb. I doubt that the central Croatian state cares about some small municipalities such as Ribnik, Kukuruzari or Bosiljevo and some fifth. It was probably written to clean up, clear up, reset the situation in the City of Zagreb. And as long as we write laws for individuals and for the needs of individuals, and not for the sake of general development, we will not be a legal state, but unfortunately some "banana state" which I am terribly sorry for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58974	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I followed your presentation, so I have two questions for you. Imagine that the City Council, the County Council, the Assembly of Shareholders with them representing the people here, doesn't mean shareholders. And now the administration submits a financial report, a negative financial report with problems, and that there is a law amended by the Company Act where, regardless of such a report, no one can mean anything and cannot change it. Is that normal for you? Secondly, according to this logic, should the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia simply enter into the law a provision that no one can ask for health or change for the same reasons and prime minister? That's one question. Secondly, it is reportedly said that this law is hurried by mayor Milan Bandic and a few other mayors of larger cities where the thin majority is very questionable, so that they could not be replaced, do you think it's because of them? And thirdly, you mentioned Mr. Shakespeare, who is seeking a two-party in Croatia. Do you think that, you mentioned the word totalitarianism, I agree with you, but do you think that he is only in words now or is being accelerated and practically in the Assembly and in other segments he is going faster towards totalitarianism in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58976	The answer of the respected representative, Ivan Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You first asked me about the case of the company. There, of course, is a capital vote. But the example is quite in place. He's standing. Are we going to have a case one day that the minister can't be infallible and that if there's an MPs who don't like the budget that they have to leave and that until some errand boy comes along, the maid who's going to raise her hand to that budget? The essence of democracy is that institutions control each other. In this case, one of these relationships, the bond between institutions, and that's the council and the mayor, let's say, is interrupted. That's where the controls will be significantly reduced. You asked me if the law was written for bigger cities. Yeah, I agree. That's what I said in my debate. I'm sure it wasn't written for some small municipalities. It's also a matter of moment. Why are we going with these changes right now? He's certainly written for bigger cities. First of all for the City of Zagreb where the Croatian Democratic Union probably wants revenge on some of its defects in some reset state... to reduce or completely destroy their influence in the assembly and restore power in Zagreb. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wouldn't be the first time the law changes for a particular case. As for Mr. Shakespeare, I don't think we're in the '90s anymore, and it's not that big of a influence on him that everything he has announced to the public about the amendments to the law will be respected. Two major parties, the biggest parties certainly fear the changes that have taken place in the last two years of political and certainly want to set up a political system to continue to hold their position and power. We see it and this is how they do it on a local level. So I wouldn't be surprised if they did. But as radical as Mr. Shakespeare suggested, I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58978	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sincic, I listened very carefully to your discussion and clearly that some things I can agree with, some things I can't agree with. I can't quite agree when you say that mayors and mayors can do whatever they want. I don't think I can do what he wants, but here's my experience, and I'm not going to replicate it. You have your opinion and ok. Let's take it so you have your own opinion, and I don't think that's how it works. I'm going to replicate to you in the part where I didn't realize when you were talking about decentralisation and small municipalities and that we had fewer and fewer young people in these municipalities, but you didn't say your position on whether decentralisation means reducing the number of municipalities or you said -- it's not about decentralisation with the number of municipalities, it's about functionality. Well, clearly, the functioning of the municipalities must be. It is clear that the functioning of the municipalities depends on the staff, depends on the financial opportunities of each municipality and I agree. However, they cannot agree that decentralisation means a larger number or smaller number of municipalities. I can't agree with that because we know how local self-government units work. And when we talk about local self-government units, then we can say that we all live in some of the local self-government units. And if we want to have a strong, good Croatian state, the country in which people will live well, we have to have as many as I can think of, this number of units of local self-government as I would say is optimal. There are many countries in Europe that have many more units of local self-government and are much richer. And there's a country on the other side of Europe that has smaller units of local self-government and they're usually poorer. So we need to talk about the need to decentralise, but also the fiscal decentralisation of Croatia. Not to reduce the number of units of local self-government but to give them funds in which the mayor or mayor will be able to ensure better living conditions for their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58980	Thank you. The reply of the esteemed representative, Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58981	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. That's right, I said the thesis that the issue of decentralisation is not related to the number of units of local self-government or if you want the county or region we're talking about, but to their functionality. According to our court, the Court of the Living Wall of Croatia has never been more centralised at this time. At the same time as I know she never had more units of local self-government. Yes, you have in France if I'm not mistaken for ten thousand municipalities. However, if you count how many of your inhabitants come to one of these communities, it is not the same if you have 500 inhabitants in a municipality or have 5 thousand inhabitants. So it's easier to find out 5 top economists in one City of Zagreb than in some small municipality of 500 inhabitants. Therefore, we must lay down so our units of local self-government that every unit can function. If we happen to have a community where there's mostly an uneducated old population, a poor person who doesn't have the capacity to raise himself, then such a municipality has no future and it's only a matter of time we want to end it or it will end itself. Therefore, in this case, they should be joined together to reorganise territorial municipalities for them to be functional. It's an extensive process and it certainly needs a number of studies, and I can't elaborate it here right now. We also know that if you have listened to the State Audit report on how the budgets of the units of local self-government function, I cannot specify the exact number at this time, but there is a significant number of those who are unable to charge neither the municipal fee nor the municipal contribution, and they simply do not have anyone who could put it all in order. There's just no personnel capacity. No one wants to work in that place, and that's our problem. I think it's a function in the first place and it has to be managed by the number of units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58982	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58983	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sincic, you were talking about how the representative council in the local self-government thinks about some kind of decorative body similar to the Office of the President of the Republic, for example, means some body that exists for the sake of form, and there is basically no content. Here we come to about the same model as we now see in the Parliament. The benches are completely empty or half empty, and on Friday everyone will vote on laws they don't know anything about, about which they haven't heard anything and don't even know what they're called. They will vote on human decisions on people for whom they also have no information, but they will do so on the principle of voting machine, in the principle of party similarity, and it is really very humiliating that people come down to robot levels. It's actually some level of that communist uranium hunt where people actually carried out their tasks without thinking about them, because if, by any chance, they were to bring some of their own judgments, then they would follow sanctions. And so here we now have a situation that some representative council, in Croatia we have 11 or even 15 thousand councilors if we would include, of course, local committees, they would simply have to vote for the budget or be replaced. And that story about how it's being saved in some elections, we can actually see that this law is actually going to increase the number of choices, because if there's going to be a budget drop, there's not just one election going to be held, but there's going to be a potential double election. So one for the representative body, then another for the chief. So all this argument that the government is offering is actually contradictory to itself, and I agree that this law would be best to withdraw from the procedure so that the Proposer does not further embarrass himself with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58984	Thank you very much. The next replica is an esteemed representative Excuse me. [[Intruder Sincic: Answer.]] The answer of the esteemed Ivan Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58985	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, my colleague Bunjac, I was talking about the deficit of democracy at a higher level than these attempts to abolish the direct choice of the President of the Republic, of the fact that the Parliament is unfortunately often reduced to some kind of automatic law, that it is subordinated to the Prime Minister and that the Government is actually ready to do everything to make sure that in one way or another the majority decides to appear here once a month and that it actually does what it wants instead of having the focus right on the Croatian Parliament and the parliamentary representatives we now have the same thing at the local level. This is all the way to partytocracy, to strengthen party presidents' roles, or to make fewer people decide what a larger number of people have previously decided. And instead of following some world-wide trends where we will have a more efficient administration, where we will have a more efficient executive and legislative authority, where we will also, through the referendums, certainly, it is a kind of direct democracy. We need to strive for direct democracy, not partocracy. Only one day if God is to abolish political parties, let citizens but informed citizens who have the basis to judge and judge decisions make decisions in referendums or in some other forms of expression. It'll be much faster, much more efficient. Political corruption will almost be eliminated. However, in all of this and whatever system it was important to ensure that the measure always decides. So I can't judge about flying a plane if I don't know how to drive a plane, but whoever has such competences should be the one who will actually propose to the citizens and inform them in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58986	Thank you. Now the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58987	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said that the city council was a correction of the mayor's work and that now with this law, they're losing that possibility. I personally think that they are not losing any of their options because if only the collapse of the budget and the destruction of the mayor is the only meaning, the only activity of the city council, or the county assembly, then they would be pointless, but we also have to respect mayors, mayors or mayors. And it's embarrassing to contradict the name sheriffs or lex sheriffs because it's insulting citizens. So the citizens gave the term of office to be mayor or mayor of a city's mayor, which means that we insult them with that act, and other. Watch the city council tear down the mayor's budget, the mayor or mayor, but the mayor, the mayor or mayor, went out on a campaign and he gave some kind of program of his. So, according to the current law, the city council is given the possibility that they could completely change that budget so that they could simply not allow the mayor at all to carry out everything he has promised in his programme, or else they would be able to bring him down. So I think this law is one fair correction to injustice against people who go out on their own. To talk about the elections in the city council, the county assembly has every honour, but the collapse of mayors by budget and the collapse of its programme and the possibility of realising its programme is embarrassing, so I think that this law is a minimum correct correction of the injustice that was made towards the mayor, the mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58988	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58989	Thank you, Vice President. When I talked about the correction, it wasn't just the voting and voting process that was correct and the process was spoken. If you have a case where a representative or councilman is valued if I tell him the chair is questionable how hard he will try and how much he will criticise any budget at all. There is also the notion of fear with the mayor that there is a tool that will be sanctioned. If he knows in advance that there's no such thing as a theoretical tool that he can be sanctioned, then it's a loss of correction for me. You were saying that maybe it's an ugly name for the sheriff or the Pharaoh, I can even agree with that, but that's on the one hand good is it'll be easier to remember what's going on here today and what's done. As for the corrections, it's very important to say if you look at it, I think it's best seen in the county elections where you have fewer candidates for mayor than you have the number of lists. It is in the rules so that it is necessary to collect signatures for candidates, you will see that some candidate who has received maybe 30% of the votes, his list has not received 30% of the votes, has received maybe 15 or 20 and there citizens show, so the citizen who comes to the elections has four lists of mayor, county council, city and city council or municipal council the same man that votes to one mayor from one party, but when you vote for the county council does not give the same party a vote. So he wants, on the one hand, one mayor from HDZ to be mayor to be elected from the other side of the vote, say for the SDP's father to be watched over by the SDP to be correct. And I don't want it lost in Croatian democracy at local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58990	Thank you. We will now move on to the next club, and this is the Club of Representatives of the HNS in the name of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58991	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The topic of local self-government is a topic we could talk a lot about. What can be concluded from the debate so far usually when discussing local self - administration was that we had shared opinions of reflection, of course, attitudes. This law speaks for itself means changes and additions. It was not as it was tried to characterise it as something revolutionary, however, it does make certain changes, but the changes in the way that it was meant to do I think how much I remember in 2013 when changes were made, and as regards certain corrections, that is to say, putting into a level and representative body and executive authority. Very briefly, I will, in parallel with the debate, present certain suggestions for our reflection, so I see that the ministers are recording. So the part where it's said that a member of the representative body has the right to a justifiable unpaid absence, I absolutely support, but I'm afraid how applicable it will be in agreement with employers, but we can accept it. And usually for these very reasons are both city and municipal councils mostly in the evening, but we can accept it, and I tend to believe it on the basis of information that certain employers are not prone to considering also the organisation of production that some council members are about because we have commented with them even to give unpaid leave. But good. Furthermore, as far as the fee would be concerned, our thinking would be to leave it to the representative body to only regulate as it has been so far in what way the fees would be paid, whether according to the session, whether a certain flat-rate. Because you have a specific session of the city council every month, and we've heard that every three months, and council members, they basically have the same activity as ours,...depending on the person of each of us, but mostly the activities exist. So I'm saying thinking is to let the bodies, but try to kind of balance the amount, whether you're going to limit it in terms of municipalities, small towns, medium cities, large cities, or maybe in that direction to try to see in what way. What's the essence of change and according to us at the HNS is arriving too late, it's that they're... in the case of a budget, the representative body and the head. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can discuss a few situations now. If you have a majority in the city council then this law is more or less, it's completely irrelevant what and how. If you don't have most of the city council, then responsibility is shared between each other. Namely, no one has spoken here, and I consider it important, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors are elected directly, that's the third time already. The first time in 2009 was by the will of the citizens, and each of them if won in the first round means that he received over 50% of the votes, if in the second round he had to get 50% of those who went out, not a single list for the city, municipal council, the county assembly did not get that number of votes in absolute amount. If we're going to mate, that's one thing. Secondly, I cannot agree that this law further strengthens the leaders of local self-government simply because they and so on subject to responsibilities while the representative body, members, city councils, county councils, for what are they responsible, gentlemen, for what? Budget law, sanctions, criminal provisions, read it. A series of other laws, about the Law on Local Self-Government, I am talking about penalizing the fine directly not as much as a legal person punishes, municipalities, city or county, but as a person, head of local self-government. When you look at a series of laws we've passed in this House, it says the head's responsibility. Who's responsible? And local self-government and head of local self-government. What he would also like to draw attention to, and it was everyone who focused on the debate on budgeting that would break it, very little was said about the procedural part of the adoption of the budget defined by the Budget Law and the Budgeting Act, which is carried out every year, and even less is said about how the local and regional self-government works. There was a comment, the city council could, most, one capital project to invest in a budget that the mayor didn't, so she passed, well, she could. Is that investment in the local self-government strategic document? Were the preparations done so that she could come in? They didn't, and why didn't they? So there are a number of things, and I think for one more reason this law is very good that the representative bodies of the municipalities, cities and counties, which the council members will have to read a little bit of the laws. And the budget process, the JLS laws, will have to read the rules of procedure, they will have to read the statutes because they cannot change the budget as they imagine. What about the plan of a multi-annual programme that may not have been brought by the city council but by the one before the one where the head of local self-government is obliged to put into the budget and act accordingly. Namely, we have several types of debates, those who have experience in local self-government, who know what it means to run, manage the municipality, city or county. There are those who have experience in the representative body, and there are those who have no experience in either one or the other, and they will not, unfortunately, never have. It is perfectly legitimate for everyone to express their opinion, however, too much noise has risen around these changes, nothing spectacular. I even heard one mayor, a Frenchman who asks if this law will be passed by this New Year's Eve, and said I don't know, it's a matter of the ministry, a policy probably, so he says it doesn't fit me, so he said why, I know he doesn't have a majority, says I can't cause elections so maybe another time he'll tear down himself and the city council so he can get to figure out his second structure. Then let's not vote for that law. Statistically speaking, it wasn't much, yes, but why at all is it necessary, is it not the intensity of not only the law but also that we were given to choose for leaders or representative bodies to do better to the common forces, knowledge, everything, to our local self-government or county or city or municipality. Where are we? So what is the goal of politics? Unfortunately. And why is politics? So I'll tell you. It's simply because there's been very little concern, it's not a rule, it's not generally these environments where these things happen, it's wanted to change by force over the knee the will of the voters. I can't agree with that, this proposal that was presented by my colleague Bačić, I think it's worth seeing, discussing, and analysing whether 2/3 can run the shift, but now we have the ability to control the mayor's supervision from the audit, from a series of reports that he has to submit where the work exclusively is worth whether he was doing well, whether he was working according to the laws. I'm sorry, Minister, I'd love to, if you don't, I'll make sure that for the next time I'll try to systemize the misdemeanor provisions of all the laws that local self-government must enforce and where the head of local self-government is responsible by name and last name, where he has to pay the fine unless he acts under that law. Trust me, colleagues and colleagues, it will certainly be thicker than this bill. Therefore, the HNS Club will support this bill. We believe that these remarks will be discussed by the ministry and nothing spectacular, and I understand that political rhetoric is what it is. But I don't think it's time, especially as far as these changes are concerned, that there's a power argument to be used. Our colleagues use force of argument, the power of argument is... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58992	We've got more replicas. But without my glasses, I can't read who it is. Here, it's the first one. It's Angel's Uncle's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58993	President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we could hear a lot here today about lex sheriff, lex phara, lex dictator, and at least only about the smallest subject. Comrade Batinić, you are the mayor's 4 or 5 terms, of which you have been elected three times directly. I believe that the very well-known topics, and that's where you gave one key sentence in your debate, which is that at least there was talk about the essence, and a lot of it. The least talk was about what all mayors and mayors are dealing with, that is, city councils, municipal councils, and much more about demagogy. For example. would our county today have built entrepreneurship zones that are among the most successful in the entire country, and are located in small municipalities. For example. There is no counterpart Krizanic, who started building a single business zone as chief, which was invested for over a billion kunas of foreign investment back in 3 years. Would in the business zone in Kneginec, which has 4000 inhabitants be an entrepreneurial zone from which 800 million kuna exports would be exported. Someone had to prepare spatial plans, buy land, disintegrate, introduce communal infrastructure, find a way to attract foreign investors and investors, build all these halls and facilities so our fellow citizens could work, earn their wages and, of course, pay taxes. So today, everything has been talked about, and at least what is important, which is what these mayors and mayors are about and why they are important. Well, there's no part of social life that's not about the mayor's work and the mayor's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58994	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58995	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Strick, that was my debate going in a positive context, because I say very, very small number of environments, where it's going to happen, I hope it doesn't, I don't think it should happen once in a while. However, whenever someone wants to blacken out, there's a lot to talk about. The fact is, no one talked about positive trends, positive things. And that function is not simple, the more many try. Either they weren't successful, so they lost the election, or the citizens wouldn't even give them a chance to try. I think you're talking about everything. And what particularly pisses me off, with direct choices, leaders, municipalities, cities and counties, is that less worth it, and it turns out that, than when you were elected from the list to the representative body? I think that's the same thing. Well, don't the mayors, the mayors, choose spacemen, someone else. So these same citizens who choose representatives in municipal, city councils and county councils. With the condition and precisely mathematically that the lists receive in principle fewer votes than the leader who has been elected. Let's not put it with our minds when we're discussing it and let's use our arguments. And so I'm saying, we're going to support this law, of course, the topic of local self-government is broad, and there's a lot more, and according to the minister's announcements, I believe that next year we're going to have a chance to discuss, just some of these topics that are. But this is putting in the same plane. No one is favored and no one is given any greater or greater authority than he now has.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58996	Another replica, a respected colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58997	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Batinc, I really appreciate what you are talking about in view of your vast experience and as chief of staff, parliamentary representative, member of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. But it seems to me that you, too, in your own debate, and as much as perhaps you didn't want to emphasize it between the lines, you said, that this law is actually unnecessary at this point. And that this is one partial solution that is the current solution, and to make only sense, that we have the whole legal package and that we finally arrange for the local, regional self-government in that legal package. It seems to me that my colleague Hrg was best told that he saw this as a predetermination for some future law. Well, it seems to me to me that this is a pre-debate, a pre-debate that only actually covers some basic goals, which this law has, and these are not the interests of all Croatian citizens, but a partial interest in meeting some local powers, and that is why we can rightly call this law, the law of the sheriff. I'm interested, that what you think will increase the citizens' interest in going to the elections after this law. And will this pre-step, among the steps introduced by this law, in these national elections in those units where the elections will take place, a number of citizens will go to the polls? I think it won't, and it's actually going to get worse and worse and it's going to lose its full meaning, which should be through the selection of units of local, regional, regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58998	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u58999	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Jovanovic, I didn't say it wasn't necessary, but it's not revolutionary, but if it's not a revolution, which is not evolution. So we're making progress in a certain way, that's what we should've done, and I mentioned that we should've done it in 2013. Whether this law will increase citizens' exits. Well, I don't see any provision in that direction for me to go. However, I do, I know what you're trying to say. A complete reform follows us, i.e. I would say a debate first of all to municipalities, cities and counties. What do we want? Is such a number of municipalities, is that organizational form, is it someone else? County County is currently transferring money. Should we win another role in the future? Absolutely. As far as I'm concerned, if I understand correctly, the local self-government leaders will now be given more authority and will that increase citizens' exits. My colleague Jovanovic has experience, that I am speaking on the basis of experience right now, but I have never underestimated anyone, not one member of the representative body, not from the opposition side, not from my position. But citizens don't stop them, they stop me for their problems as well as any leader. Is that going to increase? So I believe that constructive debates are primarily here on municipal city councils, quality proposals but not politics, not insulting absolutely yes, will increase the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59000	Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59001	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Batinic, therefore you are just like the mayor you mentioned showing little and picturesque importance of this law that you have called not spectacular. Namely, you said that, the mayor said that it was not really good for him if this law came, because then he won't be able to clear up the relations he has between his representative body, i.e. The congregations. And it just seems to me that it goes in favor of the claim that this law does not actually apply to the representative body or the executive body. He will, why is that? Because in order for these relationships to be properly arranged, we need a little deeper change of law. The truth on the surface if we look at these changes they may now be able to bring, prevent in the future some abuse of the representative body, and when I say so, we come into great danger. Because the representative body represents the citizens. And I think that future amendments to the law would make me glad that the minister thinks about it for a year. The future amendments to the law should also respect the choirs of citizens and local self - administration, and we have a local self - administration that serves only as an order. You don't, see in the Republic of Croatia how many local committees have open jury accounts. A very small number. So, local self-government units need to be helped to truly live up to their full capacity, and this relationship between the representative body, the executive body, is not going to be the happiest way to arrange this if we only have a thought of who will bring down who under what conditions. The truth is that democracy is a process and we probably won't have to talk in this way in the future, but now that we have to talk, we need to be more careful, so we don't offend anyone. You said well neither the members of the representative body nor the executive body because I don't think any councilman is less valuable if he isn't chosen by direct means. After all, let us introduce a majority system so that it can be chosen by a direct system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59002	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59003	Thank you. A colleague, Žagar, depends on the middle to the middle, depends on who the leader is, of course, depending on who the members and members of the representative body are, so I say I did not generalise in the debate. We always mention either bad examples or very good ones, but somewhere in the middle like Gauss, Gauss's curve is so somewhere in Croatia in the middle. As for who gets some benefits primarily from these laws, the council will receive them, for they will be forced to read, learn, study the laws. If he wants to submit amendments and be aware of what I can propose the amendment and what not. So far, that wasn't the case, that's the truth, that's the reality. As far as local committees are concerned again, so the law fully regulates their question, their condition specifically even though we are not a large city of 14,000 inhabitants there are 30. Every village wants to be a local board, so here you are, so let's have it. We do. You're saying "citizen choirs," yes. This year alone before and now after the election, I especially think that one of the three public debates, the obviouss of the local committees, depends on who works. But all these possibilities are given in law. Local committees even have legal personality which I find rather questionable, as this would automatically increase the costs of the local administration's business. He must have his own account, an accountant, blah, blah, blah, etc. People are aware of that themselves said no, we go all the way through a city account or especially in smaller municipalities. So I'm saying this is one of the segments of how things are balanced, because it's not the point of politics, even though I see it as politics, but to do it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59004	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59005	Thank you very much. You said your colleague Batinić had no power of arguments in these discussions. The amendments have been mentioned here all the time, as so far there have been no possible amendments to the budget, as so far has not been the basic act of the unit of local self-government budget. So there's nothing new here. There is only one strange situation here, where after the elections have been held, not a few months has changed, is the proposal for changes and additions, i.e. Law on local and regional self-government. I don't see any logic here because there's basically no change here except that the representative body, the body that the people have also chosen to represent them in the councils and congregations. Which is why it was before the elections, and now these mandates are under the law and now once after a few months because of the stability of Andrej Plenkovic, you know, it corresponds to the stability of the local board that there is no choice, the municipalities, and even he would be the happiest you know there is no European choice, so that his stability, but his, exclusively his rating and political stability will not be compromised. Therefore, this is an unnecessary law, if a whole new law should be required, we had it in the next year. Of course, that's where Ledo decided the box, of course if we act as if we've been chosen from one list to choose which political option, and... to others or in municipal or cityal it's just corruption, it's a straight con voter. And I don't see at all the point in changing these laws now if the minister is saying he's calling here for a budget, this is simple so the Senates had their councils during old Greece, Rome. This was returned to Egypt, old Egypt, Pharaoh had no council. Democracy began a long time ago. This is the degradation of the representative body. If the new law is to be called, then call new elections under the law, and now both representatives and bodies and local leaders have been elected under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59006	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59007	Well, you fellow Bull said a lot of things, I'll try to answer all the questions. First of all, we are talking about amendments to the law on local self-government regarding the electoral law should, by analogous, change the concept of changing the electoral law here. It is also heard whether we are going to return heads, I think it is a step back because yet a more direct choice is progress and more or less the entire Croatian public agreed with it. No, this law does not derivate and degrade the representative body, only puts it in the same plane as the one chosen by the same voter votes as the representative body which has not been the case so far. Furthermore, this is positive for members and members of the representative bodies, with due respect for those who have been active so far, who have read the regulations, will now have to have others who want to work actively and participate. As for some others, I failed to move on, you said a lot of things I couldn't catch, but I'm saying this is one of the amendments to the laws that should have been brought back a few years ago. I think it was 2013, if we were part of the government we proposed, unfortunately we didn't, if we had now, we wouldn't have a topic. And why hasn't it been done so far? So I wouldn't want you to find yourself called, but ask yourself who slowed down the government's functioning until before the local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59008	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59009	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you have raised one question well on this issue of major projects that may possibly be introduced by a representative body and adopted to the budget, it is a very interesting subject and I think that the legislator should think about it, because that is how I find myself canceling the election results. Namely, the head of the local candidate for mayor, mayor or mayor comes out with his program and I am convinced that a large number of our citizens or... the absolute majority chooses people well and per person normally, but also by what programme he offers for his local environment because we know that many leaders give very high quality programs, prepare for it and give programmes. And then there's the possibility that about him the city council... without destroying even the mayor adopts or suggests some big project like you said well unprepared, even those previous continuations of some projects. If they start ok, but someone can adopt a major project in the last year of office that will block the mayor's entire next term practically with that and that city council as adoption. I think that citizens' primary respect should be respected here, and the will of citizens is expressed through the direct selection of mayors, mayors or mayors, and that the city council should be only corrective, to follow this, to follow the fulfillment of the promises because it is more practically difficult for more citizens to do so than some tribunes or other democratic principles, but I think even this proposal should be put into law, and that there is some form that still the mayor, or the mayor, is the one whose programme should be implemented in a four-year term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59010	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59011	Thank you. So the Budget Law itself says that up to 15% you know very well, you've been at regional level for years, 5% can be within position etc. The fact is, that wouldn't be enough for something like this. However, the principles that speak about both the head and the representative body, and these changes will increase, must take into account the sustainability of local self-government units and increased responsibility. Local self-government leaders are signing fiscal responsibility. Someone could say analogy now, so we in the Parliament don't sign the same thing, so we can go through the amendments. Yes, but the Parliament chooses the government, the local leader is elected by citizens, the representative body of citizens, so if we find ministers for representative bodies, let's say a catch, a toothpick or something so that their responsibility for making decisions on city councils can be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59012	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59013	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Batinic. You're here I don't know you've been talking about some kind of flossula that this is all politics, how you use hard words, how you use some power, not arguments that absolutely don't stand. So the remarks to this bill were made by many public administration experts like Professor Kopric, you had here the presentation of our representative Podlnjak who spoke about the specific problems of this law I do not know where you were. I understand that you will defend everything the HDZ proposes and that everything will slide with you. It didn't slip with us, we were the ones who had a bad fight, and we were pushing the things HDZ had obstructed. They kept your HDS personnel in these energy companies because they were preparing for this candle they made. And please don't talk about the MOST being obstructed. We have obstructed what was bad and it should be your task but you will defend everything the HDZ suggests, you will be the most loyal soldiers of the HDZ. I understand that, I understand your position, I understand that you have nowhere to go, you can't go to elections, no one with you, SDP won't do you anymore, HDZ you're a shame if you go to elections and you're nowhere and you have to defend everything now. And we didn't act like one. And exactly what we are most afraid of is that we have entered the government twice with HDZ, that is, it shows that we have had the courage to take responsibility twice, and we have twice defended ideals and principles and refused to overstep and stay in positions, so we have fought for a better Croatia and we will continue to fight further. You have important positions on energy companies. And don't talk about us being obstructed, we've obstructed what was wrong and you support everything, it's your choice, or you don't have a choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59014	Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59015	So, when I said that the argument of strength, strength of voice was used, not by our colleagues, we spoke loudly. Not as much in the assembly as in public. You mentioned certain experts here, I know, very well, I'm sorry he's not here and I was there when he was arguing and where were you? Well, then you could see me. [[I've been there.]] I have a certain opinion about Mr. Dolnjak as well as about everyone. He has experience in the representative body, he was the secretary of the city and in the executive government never. He never had a chance to take responsibility for running something. Koprić, professor ex department, practice 0 points. We had a series of activities where he was a lecturer, etc., I appreciate his opinion, but he can't in his theory the number of units of local self-government dictate the possibility of citizens choosing what they want, it's unacceptable to me. He says there should be 100 units of local self-government none more or less, and he said "professors and citizens"? So who asks the citizens? I can't go with that man in the common language, I believe neither will you. As far as the floscule is concerned, they're not floscules, there's something else that's been flossed by the Grumo. The fact that you were for something and you weren't for something, that's your thing, your reasons. However, I have repeated the mass of times why we have entered the coalition and I will repeat it to you, enough division, enough of World War II, enough to say simply what, let's do people, let's do something useful for Croatia because at this point that we haven't done that, would we have a Government of colleagues today? Obviously not,...... Obviously they wouldn't, we'd have a government headed by HDZ, and I don't know who to find most of them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59016	Okay. We're going to individual debates now. First up, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59017	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A lot of things have been said, so I'm going to try to have a brief discussion just to say my vision of this whole thing. It is indeed an important issue for the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about local self-government and reform of local self-government, then we can also talk about general development of the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia consists of many municipalities, cities, counties and not all of them are equally developed, not all of them are in the same position. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends the law to the Croatian Parliament and sends it within certain frameworks that it considers important for the change. This is about amendments to the law. And what remains for us to speak to the MPs in the context of these changes. We can't talk any more than that because then it's not the subject of the law itself that was sent. I say this more because of the public because what is in the hands of the government and not in the hands of the representatives is reform, implementation of reform. And I personally hope and believe that the minister spoke sincerely when he said that from next year he would really come to the Parliament for a proposal for reform law that would then allow for the changes that were necessary. This law in the most important part actually regulates relations between the representative body and the executive body. And on a key issue, and that's a matter of budget. In fact, on the only question that has so far been possible to bring down, so to speak, to bring down the mayor, mayor or mayor. Only in such a way that he, not to vote the budget, because the matter of the referendum is one complex question where in fact many have said that this is actually an impossible task. What I'm afraid of, I don't have a problem with this legal now, a legal solution that suggests this case of disbanding a representative body unless it brings a budget but I'm afraid it's a cementing situation and that's exactly what I'm doing as an argument that reform won't take place. Because if this condition is cemented, then why reform that should be implemented? And reforms are important. We also mentioned local self-government and the citizen choir institute here in the debate. These institutions are not being used in practice and this law is, of course, being called into practice and it tries to solve the problems that arise in practice. And then what happens is that, he says like this, here's one of the problems is compensation in the work of a representative body. My colleague, I am sorry that my colleague Batinic came out when he spoke about the education of a representative body member and he was mayor in 4 terms. I don't know if he might have talked to the municipal commissioners, and if he saw what the situation is today on the ground, and when we talk in general about the members of the representative bodies, how many people you actually paid for yours, through that fee, and how much they have the same obligation. He says they have no responsibility, it's true that he has no responsibility but they have to do part of their work, come to the council meeting. Often, here if that's the problem, then the problem is all of us, it's not just a unit of local self-government. If they're not educated enough, they're making decisions that they don't understand. Then it's the same question of reform in which these people are introduced to their rules. The truth is, if you say I can't get a monthly fee, you get a fee but you know who gets a monthly fee? He also gets the President of the Council and the Vice President of the Council. We're still leaving a possibility, which is what the president of the council does. We're still leaving the possibility of politically trading with that position in some way, so he says here you're going to be the vice president of the council, you're going to get that constant fee, so help with your vote to implement certain decisions. A lack of work and funding. I don't understand it until the end. I would like the minister to explain that who will pay for this job loss and whether it will apply to all companies, especially private companies. I reiterate that I do not like this provision to introduce the possibility of forming a single management department in municipalities that are less than, which have less than 3000 inhabitants. That's what I'm afraid of, because I know that many of the leaders who are now in that position if the head decides to lift the single management department, because there's another administrative department that can establish it. They can lose their job, and again I stress most of them have, there is no high professional equipment and medium professional equipment, which is what people will do. As far as doing business, several units of local self-government may or may not be, it is good that they do not have to be particularly connected, because many units have similar problems, even geographically they do not have to be close. But then again, the question of the organization is how to solve it. As far as local committees are concerned, this proposal is good for representatives to also be able to monitor the members of the representative body. But how to revive really local committees is a key issue. And I hope that the reform we expect next year will make it possible. It's not the happiest solution, otherwise I don't think it is, here in law it is redefined by sending Commissioners. I'm not exactly that kind of thing, somehow that word just the Commissioner gives me an aversion. I think there would be other solutions to having units of local self-government in that period while there is no, until the question of either the leader or the representative body has been resolved to resolve it. It's a good solution to be the headmaster, but now I'm just wondering how it's possible? Which headmasters can contact? Can they still do this job with their job in the second unit of local self-government or can it be the head of that local self-government unit? A change in the way in which he's in office, it's likely that the volunteer can't change at the end of the last year of his term, if he was a volunteer and now he's a professional, so he doesn't abuse for those six months. But there's an injustice to the chiefs, because they're leaders, because for a year they can't get a job on some jobs, and six months they have a right to compensation, and we've already warned that. It's not just a case for the commissioners now. In the end, I'm going to conclude this debate of mys. It's not good when it's debated, it's not good to call leaders local sheriffs, and it's also not good to call members of the representative bodies ignorant. They're both doing a responsible job. What worries me is whether there will be such people in the future who want to work for the greater good, who wants to run at all for both the head and member of the council. Well, in that sense, I'm also saying this fee that's here, it's kind of not the happiest thing for me. Well, it's not true that every councilman only goes for compensation. If the representative body decides to give him that opportunity monthly. Why should the state get involved in this? It should be settled before that if all the leaders in the Republic of Croatia receive equal pay for the same job. We now have a case, these representative bodies allow indeed for me, my colleague Klaric did not believe. I'll show you, there's a captain in the Republic of Croatia who's got 15000 kunas, he's not a parliamentary representative, and there's a chief who has a fee of 2 and a half thousand kuna. And I think that future reform should be addressed. Of course the official question is probably how much they're educated here, whether it's settled by collective agreements, it's not, if they have unions. But I think there are the same significant deviations. In the end, local self-government units should also be helped by representative bodies, and then by leaders to do their job as best and as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59018	Let's go to the replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59019	Dear colleague Žagar, the fact that even these amendments to the law that the local self-government has disappeared even in those dimensions and those intensities which have opinions on constitutional provisions and provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government because there has been a complete destructure of local democracy, and it is manifested in the representative body in accordance with these provisions. Furthermore, if we look at this written intensities of the applicant that it is intended to strike a balance between the executive body and the representative body, it is simply not true and it is not logical truth. It may be a aesthetic truth for someone to look nice, but from a logical level, we can't talk about balance if two entities are involved in some act. One entity is executive, the other entity is representative and because of what they did, only one entity corresponds. So we can't talk about any balance at all, but we can talk about logical untruth. And from untrue, irregularity, illogicality, and antinomy, you best defend yourself with irony. And if we look ironically at this amendment and the law, then we can say that it's not about any Lex Sheriff, but that it's really about precise instructions in a Croatian way how to create individual predators. These individual predators were once mayors, mayors, mayors. They are no longer because this law gave them and created them, gave them a certain advantage and created them in the dimension in which they should not be created because they do not represent the will of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59020	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59021	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vučetic, I agree well with you in most parts, but you have used a lot, to put it this harshly. But I agree with you when I talk about the representative body we have and when we come here to say so in one problem of expression, the representative body, so no one can be a bigger representative body. We're talking about the executive body. The executive body shall carry out the tasks and representative body, it should carry out the tasks of the local committee, carry out the tasks of the Assembly of Citizens, it should listen to people, its representatives, in the end, if we say in direct democracy and its people. And then they'd be the real executors of what's being put on them as a task. Execution means obtaining a warrant to perform something, in doing so only, the representative body in this sense must be in charge and therefore it is not good to put the representative body in a situation that it will be disbanded because of my decision because when I was first a member of the municipal council, that was the first time I met with the fact that I could not be responsible for voting on the representative body. So if I vote, I can't be responsible for that vote. We're going to the Parliament one more step further, so we have immunity. We can say whatever we want. These people in the council don't say what they want because they'll automatically end up in court but let's not make them get punished now because they voted against the budget. I see it as a danger, and I see it as a systemic error, and that is why I call for reform because we are now correcting something that is not good at something that is less bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59022	Let's move on, the second one's a respected colleague of Peric's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59023	Your Honor. Dear colleague Zhagar, you mentioned the question of responsibility here, so here's what colleagues have mentioned so far, so when a certain programme is adopted by the mayor, the chief, that's what funds are needed. But sometimes in representative bodies, it happens that one critical mass is created that will modify all of this, ask for something else, and then normally it does not vote the budget, and that mayor, or the mayor, falls, which is certainly not good. The intensity of this law is certain to correct these shortcomings so that it can indeed show what, at the end of the day, the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor, was expecting or suggesting for a community in the programme itself. Here in Article 7 and amends Article 31 if I am not mistaken, the same amount of compensation shall be referred to for members of the representative bodies or for the presidents and vice-presidents. Here, the fixation is what you said about presidents and vice presidents, which is not a bad fact, but here is a question of law intensity also so that probably members of the representative body are in one way stimulated to be present and participate in the work itself because they happen to choose and then you have a question of also determining the quorum and making valid decisions precisely because these persons do not come. Here is perhaps one way to force them to attend the sessions themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59024	Thank you. Would you like a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59025	Mr. President, very short. So, colleagues Peric, we agree on a lot of things in fact, what we should see in the future when we talk about the responsibility of the members of the representative bodies, that was the word about their education and everything, is really the need for reform so that all members of the representative body can do their duty really with full responsibility because often they are not educated enough not by their own guilt to be able to make such decisions. But once again, we actually have a problem putting out a fire that might not exist that much. Because when you say that the leader will have to give in to an individual councilman when he's making amendments, but that's what we've had so far. And so far they're councillors, you've had to give in if you wanted to have his voice because they've always had some demands just now changes so many situations that you're threatening him if you insist on it now, you might all be disbanded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59026	Let's move on, dear colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59027	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, fellow Zhagar, here's what I'm going to teach you, you're talking about education, not education of community councilors most of the time. Didn't the time come for the final councilman to have at least the basic knowledge and ability to realise the projects of the citizens who gave him the mandate to sit in that council right now? Didn't it finally come time for political parties to put on a list a certain person to see if they knew how to do and get to what was said in the campaign. In fact, we know that associations of cities, associations of municipalities often have education and training for city or municipal councilors lately. However, I've had a case, I suppose you and a number of mayors and mayors that when the councilman tells you why we don't change this law, I say the law doesn't change us, we don't bring it, but the Parliament, why are we sitting here if we can't change the law, I say well, let's cancel the VAT on the city. I want to say how few certain councilmen know, but that's what our citizens are very happy to hear. Here he would, for example. I'm a cartoonist, but he would lift the VAT in the city of Vodice and they would all give him a vote in the next term because he's fighting for it and I don't know, some bad leader, mayor or mayor can't let him do it. When it comes to personal incomes, then you said there was a small municipality chief who received 15 000 kunas, and I don't know that because we know that there was a bill of wages passed in local and regional self-government that says that for example. The municipal chief in the place of up to 3,000 inhabitants cannot have a greater coefficient than the base of multiplication and 4.26, and we know that it is far, far less than 10000 kn. And I think it's either illegal, or it's a major unit of local self-government, so the law allows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59028	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59029	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, therefore, a man sees things in practice, right. I was at a meeting of the municipal council, when a man said, it was a question to adopt the minutes, don't you agree with the minutes, he said I don't agree. We couldn't move, he claimed that one of the councilmen didn't tell the truth, that it was a lie, that's what he said. We couldn't determine, I'm not establishing, is it a lie or a truth, but only did he say it, he said it. That's the problem. And now we're back, so you see how we left. And if we were to discuss this matter seriously, more and more, we would come very quickly to the education system, we would come to all of this, which in this country needs reforms, to release as soon as possible to tell all the proactive forces in this country to get down to the better. Because many, today I heard it on the radio, was a minister, where I think this professor, who was a guest, said that actually, a unit or a state administration, a unit of local self-government, should be the bearers of innovation. So this is a serious topic, and if we work seriously on it, we will reach our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59030	Dear colleague Ante Sanader, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59031	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you've said a few things that are not very clear. You say no one can be bigger than a representative body. Well, look, they are elected equally in the elections and the leaders, that is, the mayors, mayors, mayors and members of the representative body. So at least they're equal. Because I don't see how that representative body would be bigger than the chosen leader. Secondly, this, that all commissioners should have the same salary, exactly this... that the coefficients are defined, but it doesn't make sense that the head of some small municipality of 500 inhabitants, and the head of some municipality with 5, 6, 7 thousand residents, and with a larger budget, I don't know, it doesn't make any sense to me to have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, they're not the same obligations, they're not the same responsibilities, they're not the same jobs they do. And councilmen with greater responsibility, councilman or headmaster. I think the leader has more responsibility, because the leader, directly responsible, directly disposes of the funds, responsible, signs financial responsibility. He is responsible for the implementation of the projects, so respectful and respected members of the representative body, I think it is somewhat incomparable, as far as responsibility is concerned. Because councilmen, I don't know, I don't see any great responsibility except for morals and mine, which is great in front of their constituents, and surely their voters will follow, whether they stand up for something or not. This is the greatest punishment and the greatest reward for them. And yet the leader is a pre-negotiated matter, and you know it very well, because you were the leader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59032	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59033	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Sanader, a colleague of mine said, when we were on, I think the State Department of Protection and Rescue had one seminar, and then one colleague said that if I knew what I was responsible for, I would never run for office. You're right, many commissioners are not even aware of what they're responsible for. Especially if someone goes down the street and falls a branch on his head, that's why the man's responsible. Okay, maybe when I said the value, I don't think, I'm sure the leader elected in the direct elections has that legitimacy that people gave him. My only, intensity, that solution that was before 2000 to elect and council members in this way, most of it in my own to tell the neighborhood, on my local board, might give them that more, that importance, only then, who knows how to further complicate their relationship with each other. In any case, the value of both the representative body and the leader must be the same in order for them to be able to achieve what the law says is an equal relationship. If that's what this law is gonna do, we'll see about that. I'm afraid exactly that, that many members of the representative body will be in fear, so they will vote in favour of the budget just so they won't be disbanded, although I disagree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59034	And the last replica, dear colleague Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59035	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar, I'm just going to replicate to you in the part where you said, it's not nice to call leaders sheriffs, not to call councilmen ignorant. I agree that councilmen should not know the ignorant, because there are really high-school councilmen there, who have good debates, who give good suggestions, who improve the work of councilmen, who help the mayors and the mayors, and certainly the council has its office. But equally, I don't know what's the point of calling local leaders sheriffs. When I was a kid, and we were all small, then we were playing cowboys and Indians, so all we said was we were all fighting to be sheriffs. Why the sheriff? Because they set the law, they introduced order. So if we take it that local leaders, respect the law, introduce order, then I agree, call us sheriff. But, that many think, when they're called local leaders sheriffs, that they're some people who work on their own and some kind of local, I don't know who, then that's... That there are such, there are such and there are mayors, and there are mayors, which in that negative context we can call sheriffs, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then it might be a good suggestion to call them cowboys. Because there are, literally, cowboys like that, but I'd say, those are exceptions, and exceptions confirm the rule, that there are extremely high-quality mayors and mayors and that we really shouldn't call them a dirty sheriff. And this lex sheriff isn't my real name.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59036	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59037	In short, I agree with you, there is no need for people to generalize that way. Well, if I agree, the sheriff doesn't necessarily have to mean something negative. However, in that sense, if the head of the local self-government unit, the mayor, has a certain power, power, and abuses it during employment, when making some decisions especially in public procurement, then he is not, then he is indeed a cowboy, is a profiter. Maybe you should think about it in the future and I know little about it, I've read something, there are developed countries where at local level you don't have an opposition but you're proportional to how many votes you get in power and you probably wouldn't have this problem. The leader would have been elected directly, and the councilmen would have implemented the policies at the end of what they were saying in their programme, each for their own portfolio, each for what they were in charge of, and then there wouldn't have been a problem if someone were to tear someone down, but they would have fought more to get the funds needed for their project. Because the only thing I think, that's what my colleagues mentioned, the only thing I think is worth it and what elections are about. And when it's said, when it comes to projects, when the lists are drawn up, then it's, to say this easily, you can detect that group of councilmen or those who don't want it to be obstructed, and they don't want the project to be implemented to the end. And then it's better for the chief to stand down and say yes, ma'am, if you don't want a project that's good for our community, then our city, then I'm moving on my own.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59038	Okay, now we've exhausted the replicas. We're going to another individual debate, dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59039	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't know if I'm going to speak as a sheriff or as a local leader, but here I am going to take this sheriff in that good context. I would say that this law could specifically say the shaking hills were born a mouse. Journalists and media are writing lex sheriff's new law, let's face it, this law is not spectacular, it's nothing special. And here as head of local self-government, I'd say he's not gonna make the citizens live any better. We can always look at it from two levels, I look at it as the head of the local self-government unit, but when I look at some problem then I try to look at it from one side, here at this point I can look at it from the council's position. If he's going to make us feel better or worse here, I don't think I can characterize this situation either black or white. The fact is that local self-government units would need much more important laws that would allow for better citizens' lives, which I think we can all agree on. Is this law a good one? It's not good. The fact that most of this law is focused, I would say 80% of this law is the relationship between unit leaders of local self-government and councils. Is there a more important leader or council? I can say from my experience clearly that this law goes in my favor, definitely goes in favor of me and the council may find it harder to replace me, although here in my unit of local self-government I have no problem with the council I have a majority in the council, but I do think that somehow we are reducing the possibilities of the council and council as the elected body that has the right to influence the politics of every mayor and mayor. I have the same argument on the other hand, the fact that the leaders of the local self-government unit have been elected by most citizens. No one was selected below 50%, some may have been chosen by 80 or 90% in the first round not because they were the only ones or that there were only two but there were more. So it absolutely gives us the right to run the city and the municipality that we are ultimately fiscally responsible and I think we have the right to decide on a large number of issues on our own. And there I can agree that this law goes hand in hand to those leaders, but clearly the truth is not always so white or black. Of course it will make it easier for me, every head will make this law easier and when we had a debate between the city leaders and the municipalities almost no mayor or mayor was against this law and I understand that. I understand because they have some kind of security here. They may be on their side when they say that the current law was subject to the fact that some councilman who may have been crucial could have received 5% of the votes and could only blackmail one councilman who could have a majority in the council, and that's true. Now we can talk about that as a society, we haven't evolved, that we haven't come to such a level of moral, ethical that councilmen won't benefit from the populism and politics that it is mostly. And especially those opposition councilmen are using their position to blackmail the mayor or chief. I know such examples, I have tried in my council, and that is why this law is good and allows a leader who is fiscally responsible who is directly elected to make a decision without being blackmailed by the council and council. But I'd say the laws aren't the ones that have to ensure their own legality, or councilmen aren't the ones who are the checkers. I'd say we have a pretty big problem here in laws or courts. When I talk about some leaders working on their own, having an extremely large number of criminal charges, and we know such leaders of local self-government units, and they do crimes, they do crimes, and the laws don't process them, that's where I see the key problem. I see the key problem in such a way that it is simply the leaders that are thought to be here in this case farce the sheriffs do what they want, and it is the law that does not prevent them in such criminal acts. It happens here in a nearby environment, it happens that councils and councils and congregations can't do anything to such a local leader, and it should actually write a law on how to prevent us from having certain crimes and guilt committed by local leaders for five, six or ten years. Two, three mandates passed, then the local leader nothing, here's two, three mandates and nothing happens and he's accused of corrupt acts, of illegal acts, of interests. Here I think that there is a very important and crucial problem in how to resolve legislation to make such leaders impossible in the further selection, in the work and that the law is simply implemented by emergency procedure. I can't say, we have examples like that, I won't say much, there are. And then we look globally, as the leaders of local self-government, as people who work against the law. And we know that the leaders certainly don't work, most of them certainly don't work against the law. Yeah, when we see that we're the most controlled. I don't know if there's a local self-government unit leader who hasn't had an audit in four years every year. I have an audit every year. Well, these come for the firemen, so they come for the communal, and then they come for the state audit. Every year I have some kind of audit. And we're the most controlled. Now, can the head of the local self-government unit spend 1,000 kunas without being in the municipal budget? He can't. Can he owe the local self-government unit 1,000 kuna more than he owns an annual income? He can't. In that sense, we are in an unequal relationship to, say, Minister, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about reducing the deficit this year from I don't know 12.13 billion to 8 billion. And it's a great success of the finance minister, we've cut the deficit by 8 billion kuna. And the leader of the local self-government unit if he makes a minus in the current year for 100 kuna or God forbid for a million kuna he goes straight to Remetinec. Now, I'm saying that we'd have to bring things into place and say that we'd all just have to be in the same position. But clearly, I also have arguments that speak of this law, that this law is definitely not according to one democratic standard. I believe that this legislative proposal on the first proposal is nice, perhaps it goes hand in hand to the unit, the leaders of the local self-government unit, but it is ultimately as bad as for the representative body and for the leaders of local self-government. This legislative proposal is a step backwards in the development of democracy, transparency, efficiency and participation of citizens at local level. I have to admit it. I'm saying, I'm glad to be the head of this law. However, if I see really about democracy, we have completely reduced the possibility that council members and councils play a key role in all this together. Somehow, it seems to me that this law may be a little immaculate to some leaders who at the moment are fit to have greater powers, to have fewer opportunities for their councils and city councils and council members to defuse their accounts. Here's how I get my grade. Democracy is ultimately between the two procedures. When, it can be boring, frustrating, it can be slow, but the fact is democracy is such that it's not democracy if one man decides about it all together. I say here I am always at that crossroads as head of a unit of local self-government which this law corresponds to and as a man who puts himself in the position of a councilman and who will not have, or will have less influence on politics in his unit of local self-government than he has so far. To be honest, here's our club said it would be against the law. I don't think the law is ultimately anything spectacular, nothing so bad. We need to fix it, we need to listen to the heads of cities, the municipalities to fix it, and then we will have one good law but basically this law will not allow for a better life for citizens, let's focus on some other laws that will allow local self-government units to have more financial potential and work better to improve all their citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59040	We have two replicas, first respected colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59041	Thank you, Mr. President. My friend Prelec, you said the most important thing in the place. So this law will not improve the quality of life of citizens or democracy. You spoke from the councilman's point of view. Because this law is very interesting, depending on what perspective you look at it from. He's not even scrawny or marked. So this law can be seen equally by the mayor of Rijeka and the mayor of Split, but will be viewed differently by the HDZ Councilor in Split and HDZ Councilor in Rijeka. Or SDP's councilman in Rijeka and SDP's councilman in Split. They'll look at it differently. That is why this law does not contribute to increasing the democracy of citizens, and that is why it is bad. And that's why he's a partial solution, and that's why he didn't have to bring it now. And that's why that feeling is created, the sense of doubt in the intentions of this law. And maybe you're right, maybe you shouldn't really talk about the sheriff, about lex sherry. But why don't we talk about Sheriff Bandic's wood?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59042	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59043	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, so here I have also said in the end that it seems to me that this law is written for someone, I'm sorry, if I'm wrong my soul, but it seems to me that he is nothing spectacular, nothing will improve the quality of life in the units of local self-government, and here he is, I would say on the nth potential put into public and as if something spectacular was made about the units of local self-government. I don't think it's anything. Whether he'll be good or bad, we'll see if he'll be in the second reading equally, whether we'll bring him to this House. I think he can be fixed, I think he can be better, but ultimately I think there must be other laws behind this law that will fix the situation in local self-government units. I think that's what I was saying in one of the previous exposures related to the funding of local self-government units. Local self-government units use only 16% of state resources, 16% use these remaining 84%. I think there's a key problem here. This is about better lives of units, every citizen in municipalities and cities. And it's a crucial law. And this law, clearly democracy costs, democracy isn't exactly something simple. Some of the leaders will be okay with this. Some of them won't answer. None of the laws were black and white, so neither this one would be the law, nor will everyone accept it, nor will everyone say it's bad. Eventually we'll probably bring it in, hopefully not in this form. But to fix it a little bit, I think we should.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59044	Another replica, dear fellow Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59045	You mentioned in your statement that you are the head of the local self-government unit and that you have no problem with the majority in your unit, and this law deals with this problem when the leader has problems with the majority. You know you yourself said in your statement that you have examples and you know examples, you have experienced yourself when a councilman blackmails with his support of the budget. And it actually happens most often in the budget. This bill sort of solves the situation in the budget, it would solve the pressure on the head of the budget. But today I asked the same question in the debate, so I'm asking you a question. Whether this solves the conflict between councils and commissioners in general, therefore not only with the budget. Will this law resolve this conflict, or will this pressure go away in other decisions? There won't be any more options here if the law is adopted, of course, that the councilor is being blackmailed by the commissioner because the budget will have to be kind of passed. But will they find a common language whether this law will offer a solution that they, that conflict, prevail. The other thing I'd like to tell you is that you said it yourself, and I agree with you. The Chief is fiscally and criminally responsible, supervised, audits and controls are carried out. But here, we have an anecdote, a reality in our local self-government that one of the leaders was accused of corrupt acts, he was arrested, he ended up in prison very honestly when he was held in custody, he resigned, he got out of custody. In the meantime, elections were called, he won, but not only that, he was the only candidate in those early elections And the rest is on it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59046	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59047	I don't know if you heard me. I said I didn't have a problem with that. I have a council majority. However, when you say it will solve this problem of blackmailing the councilman in principle. I don't think so, of course not. But it's all a matter of being the head of a local self-government unit that needs to have so many beats, so much spirit that it can easily agree with councilors some projects that are of general importance to each unit of local self-government. Voting, overvote, quarreling, and often in all congregations and councils, it leads to nothing. And I think that what I'm saying should have more honesty, ethics, morals in that policy, both with councilmen and with the head of the local self-government unit. But the point is that this law will reduce the importance of councilors and councils, that's all. Well, that doesn't suit me as a leader, either, but frankly, it's going to diminish the importance. So far, councilors could have very little impact on the policy of the local self-government unit, and by law, they will probably be able to influence politics even less. That's what we're going to do on that scale of democracy a little bit lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59048	Thank you. Now let's go to the third individual debate, it's a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59049	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it's been said quite a bit. What I can say at the beginning is that we at the SDP club think that this law is not good, that a partial solution is within one required whole package and that it would be much better if we had received such a package or waited, so we are not clear, or we understand why it is even pushing at this point. We, too, are not convinced in the SDP that it is not constitutionally agreed. So we believe that there is a problem with the oral compliance of this law and of course it does not comply with the European Charter of Regional Self-Government. Every law we bring here in the Assembly should aim to strengthen the integrity, accountability, efficiency of all officials, as well as officials in units of local self-government, of course and council members, members of the assembly, all employees for the benefit of the citizens. Is this the law? We feel that it does not bring and therefore it is not good to bring it and it would be ideal for the law to actually withdraw from the procedure and then get a full legislative package on the entire system of local, regional (regional) self-government. Today we have heard a lot of words, here is exactly how fellow Milosevic pointed out an exemplified example perhaps even in the world that the leader who must have restrained corruption would be re-elected. One Oxford doctorate known, you have probably heard of him Vuk Vukovic even doing one research, a very long-term research in which he investigates the impact of corruption in local self-government units on the re-election of the leaders of these units and his observations are very interesting. These observations say almost that in one good part of the local self-government units there has been institutionalisation of corruption in these environments that ultimately lead to the re-election of these leaders. Therefore, our task is to do the opposite, so our legal solutions deinstitutionalise potential corruption at the levels of local self-government individuals and thus ensure that citizens decide and that solutions are made that are for the benefit of citizens, not for the benefit of one circle of people, powerful men, sheriffs, various partners who create the network, a real corrupt network that does not matter to a citizen, but rather for the benefit of individual coalition interests. And in this way, the conclusion of such partner agreements allows for staying in power and at the expense of citizens. And that's why all of this is very, very much drawing attention to the possibility of a single partnership in which our famous Sheriff Bandic plays the main role. What should certainly be pointed out is that solutions in this law are not really important, and that 99% of the other problems that should be addressed do not touch at all. A colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash made a great calculation, so because of the problems this law is trying to solve, at least that's how the story was sold to us, only 1.5% of the budget in the Republic of Croatia was disbursed. Therefore, this is not good, and it is not a convincing argument, that this is why we are passing this law today. I therefore conclude with this, therefore, that by adopting this law we again create one doubt about the desire for the integrity at the level of units of local and regional self-government, all politicians, to increase their confidence in institutions. And if we look at the overall environment in which the citizens of Croatia live today, where even for corruption arrests and judges, then the question is to what extent will the citizens' desire to participate in democratic processes at all, in the elections to be increased in this way. Unfortunately, therefore, we believe that this law is bad, that it does not increase integrity, the responsibility of unit leaders of local, regional self-government, and therefore does not need to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59050	We have two replicas. The first is a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59051	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. My colleague Jovanovic, you really mentioned in your presentation a very interesting study by Mr Vuk Vukovic, which I would like to suggest would not be bad to read. She's very well-made, and she points to all sorts of things. But I came forward for another reason, because you said in your presentation that we should still get one whole solution. We are today discussing more or less the budget, discussing the relationship of representatives, or councilors and executive authorities. However, it may have been mentioned by someone, so if so, I apologize in advance, but we have not debated at any time the conditions under which a single mayor, mayor or mayor should step down from his duties. The fact is that they are directly elected, but the fact is that there may be certain cases in which they should stand down. Not long ago, we had the case of a mayor who had family problems in his family, and the other day there was a follow - up. I really don't dare judge you, nor would I want to judge you, but there's a distinguished colleague of Martinchev-Juricev I once heard her, or Juricev-Martinchev, when she said that you were a job so you should have some evidence and everything else. But for a job in a particular mayor's case, no. It kind of went under our radar. If we want to develop democracy, and I'm sure our mouths will be full of it to develop, this law is not, it's clear to all of us. We no longer discuss at all at any time that the time has come for us to prescribe by law certain conditions under which someone must step down from this honorable duty, regardless of what citizens have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59052	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59053	Well, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, I completely agree with you. I've been in local self-government since '93. by 2009 and as a member of the City Council and as a member of the Headship and vice-president of the City Council, as Deputy Mayor, so that I really believe that I have both the experience and the knowledge that I can talk about the functioning of units of local and regional self-government. And what you just said is crucial. So every legal solution we have must be based on an increase in the integrity of the head of officials, but at the same time responsibility. And if there is no way in this legal solution to raise a question of responsibility for the local leader, then the law is not good and the examples you have highlighted are very clear examples and I hope that this other reading may find a solution for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59054	Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59055	You just mentioned the courts along the way, and I'm talking about this new affair of the judge and the bankruptcy manager who, unfortunately, are very close... some decisions that were at least strange and suspicious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We doubt leaders because courts don't do jobs, that's definitely true. And what I was saying in my debate, when the courts do their job, when we don't process leaders who have worked and abused their position for five, six or more years, then there will be fewer doubts about all of us. We're not going to generalize. Because when we have two, three examples of mayors or chiefs against whom court proceedings are being conducted, then we're all talking about them being thieves. No, we're not all thieves, but we have to solve this particular problem of courts and they're one of the biggest problems in the Croatian state that courts and procedures have been going on for years, literally for years, that people have already forgotten why someone was arrested and then we generalize the problem and we say they're all thieves. No, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59056	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59057	I agree, buddy. So there's that saying justice is slow but reaching. In our country, it is very, very slow but not available at all, and if you ask the citizens of Croatia recently, a large survey has been conducted on a sample of 62 countries in the world where the citizens of Croatia have pointed out that they do not trust the Croatian judiciary and believes that the Croatian judiciary is unable to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59058	Let's move on. Now it's your honorary colleague Roscic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59059	Here I would like first of all to say that as this law applies to Mr Bandic and Zagreb, I am not genuinely interested in it, because I come from the tenth electoral unit and I want to talk about everything that this law brings positively to many other municipalities that we are constantly stressing that it is over 550 in the Republic of Croatia. And as the minister also comes from the 10th electoral unit, I believe that he sees a lot of such examples, which will indeed contribute to greater stability in local self-government units in the short term and solve those burning problems. We can say that this isn't reform big law, but that he has to quickly solve what's waiting for us daily, so I'm going to start with this part that concerns changing the area. I won't, and later I'll say something about the knowledge of our councilors and the trade that's going on in local self-government units. So, in order to be able to use measure 7.4. and other various measures on European funds, it is important that our settlements are defined by up to 5,000 inhabitants of the local self-government unit. What happens in Dalmatia is that many villages, settlements are not isolated in specific areas defined in the law and therefore enter into statistics of much larger settlements and these funds are not possible. Back in the '90s, when these structures of people from some smaller villages were brought in, the settlements simply wanted to be part of a larger building unit such as that would be more money for us all to be together and as I can see it didn't happen in Slavonia so that they had a clear distribution of the village as much as the village. And we have a lot of these settlements that are really within the larger settlements of 10,000 inhabitants, and that's really problematic. The Rural Development Programme, financed by the resolution of infrastructure in these small settlements, is to be implemented in 2014 and implemented in 2017. but what is important is that we no longer have time to wait and we need to simplify that procedure that really those small settlements that are good infrastructures to register as such, or villages and settlements as special settlements. As for the comments concerning the knowledge of individual councilors about budgeting, I think it is very important that council members have the knowledge and ability to perform their functions and that they have a handful of powers that can affect the work of a municipality, but let's be realistic what happens in the adoption of the budget we have now and in the adoption of rebalancing at national level is that we MPs are also giving amendments and that most of them are not in line with the law. It means that we MPs do not know how to properly submit the amendment to the state budget and it is very unfortunate if the local budget is used to manipulate, to encourage political trade, to bring down stability or to bring down the commissioners. Why is it important to protect local self-government units from instability? The first thing is that here, however, Parliamentarians have a lot of obligations, unlike the funds, we delegate to units or we decentralize to local self-government units, we impose our obligations much faster than we give them money, and the laws that we are subject to here in the Croatian Parliament. The other thing is that most as Mrs Juričev-Martinchev and Mr. Žagar mentioned, most council members feel that their powers are greater than they are and often blames our mayors and mayors for what is not in their power, so she mentioned here and the ultimate example where they blame the mayor or mayor for why the VAT is not being reduced somewhere, why is some councilman if he can't influence the change of the law. So I definitely think we should cut the trade, and I've been working on 19 units of local self-government, and there's been two crashes, and four of them didn't have a majority council. What's kind of the worst thing about it, not just that block going on towards the municipality and the commissioner, but there's a block going on towards our citizens, and even bigger what we need to do with this law is that store that's happening under the table so as not to block the work of the mayor and the mayor. So I think that anyone who might be able to buy councilmen, bring down councils, rather than work and prepare to use the EU funds that are here and this change in the area will help to make it easier to implement it. Of course, it is very important that we use EU funds on time and well planned, all those who are easier to do the opposite will be against this law or to keep the old one. So I also support this law personally, not only in the name of the club and all of us who bring it, but also in the 10th electoral unit, it will make positive changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59060	Thank you. We only have one replica of a respected colleague, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59061	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, so really from the beginning of the debate except for the lex sheriff I was also one of those who said that we might call that law, after all, the real name Lex Sheriff Bandic. That's not an accident. So the Zagreb Parliament is the second largest in Croatia, seven parliamentary MPs besides sitting here and parliamentary representatives are in the Zagreb Assembly, but perhaps one other fact remains undetected. The fact that in the Parliament of the City of Zagreb, the last assembly when it was on the agenda included a debate on the draft law that then passed the e-Consultation procedure, and in this debate, it was quite a heated debate, which means, which means, what it means for democracy, which means for the city's assembly at all, and regardless of what Mayor Bandic has most of the votes, we voted on a conclusion that we propose to the restoring ministry, which means that the law is still withdrawn from the procedure. In the city of Zagreb is a very interesting situation, there unlike the Parliament at any time you count the majority which is the majority and 26 and there are no points that seem to you even in the agenda that is the most harmless where the majority does not count. I, although I can agree that maybe we should have moved away from Mr Bandic, although he said very early in the 9th month that the law would be passed and that he would no longer have to worry so much about the budget. He has proved so involved all this time that he doesn't need the law, he will always succeed with the budget to collect those 26 hands and have exactly the budget he wants. But it would be good to know that a conclusion has been reached in the city congregation suggesting that this law is not passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59062	Answer to the replica of my colleague Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59063	Thank you. A lot of today's debate is being held on the issue of problems in Zagreb and in general in the city of Zagreb and the work of the city's assembly, but I have to fight here to have other parts of Croatia and that we will talk about them. I think that in the rest of Croatia, they are even more concerned with this law which the city of Zagreb is handing out, that there are plenty of capacities, that there is a lot of funds centralized right in the centre of Croatia in Zagreb, and a lot of obligations are being decentralized by smaller units of local self-government and cities that can't handle it. And I will no matter what someone wants me to say and of course it's justified, and that's why you're in charge of talking about how these laws apply to the area you come from, but I'm in charge of my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59064	Let's move on. The next is the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59065	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We have before us today a law that has been named "Lex Sheriff" in public. Certainly not by accident. It's a law that basically doesn't have the first sense, except to go to her party and her satellites and do it in very limited cases, therefore, in several cities and municipalities. And I'll try to explain that during my exposure. It is claimed that this law intends to introduce the stability of the government, because as representative bodies in local self-government, they often tear down budgets, thus causing elections. However, statistics show that in the last 4 years of the 2400 budgeting, only 50 budgets have been challenged, and 38 times elections have been held, showing that therefore, the mayor of the municipality has fallen in 1.6% of cases. On the other hand, so already with this existing law, these leaders are heavily protected, they reportedly can fall due to citizens' referendums, however, it has been shown that, out of 2400 cases, the referendum has been held twice. So the referendum is a dead letter on paper, it doesn't exist in practice. And there is no practice for the reasons why this law introduces, among other things, double criteria, so it is more difficult to organise a referendum at local level, but at national level. At national level, it takes 10% of the group's signatures to hold a referendum and 20% at the local level. Which means that such an initiative is practically impossible to implement. If this law is passed, a very real question is raised, what is the function of the representative body, what is the representative body doing? Will this representative body be just some kind of cult, some kind of pendant, to the chief, who will indeed be the sheriff, or God and the beating, similar to what you do in Zagreb, where you have in neighborhoods and on local committees of 1600 council members. Watch out for 1600 councilmen who all receive fees, who we don't give up on anyone, because their function is exclusively advisory. And now that we have in these local committees 1,000 and 1,000 councilors who don't decide anyone, now with these laws and 9,000 councillors in municipal, county and city councils, he also wants to take the job of some counselor or, for his own part, it's purpose. I mean, he wants them, so let's say we discipline them, so they become a brainless voting machine. That we have in the Parliament one who can and can give everything the same that we can have in the municipality, and that one who can have everything in the cities, and most importantly in the City of Zagreb, where HDZ has its deputy mayor, since there is no chance of getting its mayor in the next 100 years. We saw this in these last elections, where even an apostate from HDZ got twice as many votes as your candidate, who was also an apostate, sent him back nicely and applied for mayor of Zagreb. And now look, as it works in Zagreb, let me tell you, what councilmen have to accept, when the budget comes to them, here we have seen, here we have some councilors in the town hall, let's say in Zagreb, that the installation of a trash can costs 1000 kn. In Zagreb, the park benching is set to cost 5000 kn. So he's not getting benches, he's getting benches. In Zagreb, several hundred kindergartens must be fenced with a fence of 2 metres high with wire, but one meter of installation of the fence costs 1500 kn. And now that you've come to your senses, at the end of the day, people are coming to you, who say, so come on, I'll set you up with a wire for 200 kn or I'll install your bench for 300 kn. You can't do that, because the sheriff said the bench was 5000 kn. And now, when he brings such a budget to the city council, according to this law, it will have to be accepted or he will have opportunities, be careful now, disband the representative body. He remains in office, and the representative body will be disbanded and will be elected. Is it, then, a representative body's function to protect citizens, to bring real budgets, not harmful, or is the role of a representative body to vote valued by the mayors and mayors, in order not to be disbanded? And then as a legislator, he says, well, but if there are elections for a representative body, then in three months, they may eventually be in a new council and election for the chief. Which means, in fact, the legislator predicts double elections, double costs, double trouble, not cutting proceedings. I know that the HDZ gentlemen would be happy to get rid of Mr Hasanbegaviæ in the town hall and some other similar cases, that he is now in their heel even though they created him. But I'm very sorry to write the law for a few individuals. To write the law in one party's office. To abuse institutions like that. And that those who abuse institutions, bring laws like this to Parliament, then say to us, from the Living Wall or part of the opposition, you're a populist, destructive, and you don't know what you're saying. And it's a shame we're doing it. Or, let's say, what will you, Mr. Kustević, when in Ceminec, your head of the municipality prescribes a tractor tax that doesn't exist anywhere in Croatia. How will you end up with him? And how can you even stand by the existing law of Tomasevic Mayor now? How can you put an end to him? He can do what he wants. I see. In England, in I don't know Austria, there is mentioned for someone minister that 20 years ago I don't know, looked at a journalist and he resigned here and the woman is fighting, she's breaking up remotely because of the Croatia-Greece game, no one, he's still the sheriff, he's going to disband the presidential council, they won't disband him, so it's already over. We gave these commissioners a very good tool in hand when we voted in hands when we passed the law or in a previous session for direct elections. There are direct choices. And these direct elections are a terrible protection for mayors and mayors, quite enough. What else is this, which panic catches you, paranoia that you now have to pass one of these laws and we have so much work to do in favour of Croatian citizens? And here you said that you would cut to two terms, yes, then you should reduce those mandates to two if there are direct elections, if there are direct elections for the President of the Republic and her mandates are reduced to two, then the direct elections and at local level would be reduced to two, this way we will have kings for life again, we see that there exist in some municipalities and cities even a tendency of individual politicians to inherit them in office by their relatives, sons. So we will literally introduce with this feud. Lifetime power. One party. So basically what's changed for 27 years, basically nothing, we still have Hitler from our juice that will rule as long as he lives. Now they used to be red, now they're blue, and apparently things have changed, but the point remains the same. Therefore, this law is completely unnecessary, if you have understanding, withdraw it from further proceedings and if you already want to address the issue of local self-government and the issue of elections and generally greater efficiency, then I suggest you deal with public procurements conducted at local level, local employment, public procurement, and I think you have far more room to improve these local administrations than in these laws. And it is generally known that there is one chaos, that there is one ultimate primitiveism, that even a cleaning woman can no longer be employed in these local administrations of state institutions without having a party card and that you should generally work on a territorial reconstruction. Here's another case I get here for a little while, you have these fees that you say should be leveled and how many units of local administrations don't even pay that fee? And then what's the point of municipalities and cities if they're not able to even pay those council fees now or never in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59066	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is a respected colleague, Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59067	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Well, I'd like to know what kind of recipe that you're saying can be inherited? That's what I'm interested in because I'm the leader, I have three sons, so I'd like to see what it's like, which is the law, which allows them to have at least one of my three sons to stay in charge like this for a few terms, but there's a lot of mandates, actually. So I'm saying, I think if we knew that specifically, I'd like to learn something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59068	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59069	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Prelec, that you, like some MPs in the Parliament, sleep in the ears, I said there's a tendency to be involved in family politics, you're very offended when you mention local administrations because you're in that local administration a magnificent Allen Prelec who can't talk about it, but I have to tell you a very sad fact which is that every time you report to me locals write in inbox, a lot of messages send me and tell me that you run that municipality and you're one of the reasons why this law shouldn't change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59070	Oh, what a hit. Let's move on, dear fellow Lonchart, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59071	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, we sit here all day listening to so many empty stories when it comes to local government and self-government units, I can't believe it, but I also have to answer some things. You are absolutely not familiar with the principal work of units of local administrations, this is for these units of local administrations and the responsibility of the leaders of units of local administrations. Generalize and put everything in the same pile is your shame and I must say that this law that is right here is just a correction of the law so far and not that it gives a chance to a leader man no matter what unit the local administration comes from, with creating a mess on its ground and that with a council game or games as you say it. There are no mayors, mayors and mayors in Croatia who care about the riots in the area in which he is responsible and led by that unit of local administration. I'll just tell you one thing, I come from a municipality where billions of kunas have been invested. Employees of 2,000 people, and now what you've told my colleague Prelc, I'd like you to invite some people in that municipality to give you specific information so that next time you can take that information out here in the Parliament. So all you're saying is, all you're saying is, I'd like you to first look at the situation and the obligations that local administration units have and then sit together for two days here or anywhere else and discuss facts, evidence, what units of local administrations do. And I responsibly argue that there were no units of local administrations, believe me, they were both the bearers of the development of this country and you on the rhetoric of people in Croatia, people who run counties, cities and municipalities, who are true what counterpart Prelec says, made certain failures, put everything in the same basket, and you are wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59072	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59073	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm not putting everything in the same basket. Here's to you, no one's ever written me anything. So, according to that, for some writing, they don't write for some. I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. Let's say you have a case in my county, there I studied well everything... results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mayor wins 60% of the vote. So the first ballot to be taken by citizens is 60% and then his list gets 30% or twice as much. What does that tell us? This tells us that our voters are intelligent enough to put some kind of protection on the self-will of the mayor, or mayor, and that they knowingly put some kind of surveillance, by different votes. Because if he wanted the chief or mayor to give them absolute authority, he would have circled the ballot as well as circled the candidate. However, this does not happen in practice. You even have cases that I don't know the mayor gets 30, 40% and his list 10 percent. Why? Because citizens want to control each other. And there you have in that very electoral system you have control system. It means unnecessary. So you're saying it's hard in councils with councilmen to handle but it's the wish of citizens. It was the wish of the citizens, and that's why they vote differently. And don't underestimate their thinking. In fact, they really want the council to take control of the commissioners. If it's hard for the chiefs and that's what politics is. Politics is one big challenge, which is not best prepared not to even run. I understand that someone would want everything to go smoothly, but that's what citizens have different opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59074	Let's move on. Next individual debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59075	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Local Self-Government somehow has the destiny to be discussed in the first reading at the 11th month and then in the second reading immediately at the 12th month so that there is little time to analyze the proposals that come in knowing the procedure of adoption, so the Ministries, the Government's coordination, and you will have to submit the second reading of the proposal, the final bill, if not the day after that, no later than Monday. So the first changes in 2012 were two-way. In one part, they strengthened mayors and mayors, so the executive bodies, giving them the power to appoint them in companies and others, other institutions where the city appoints its representatives, unless the special law sets them apart but weakens their negotiating position in relation to the majority in the representative body because it implies if it fails to agree on the budget to risk each other going to elections and electoral defeats, one of those two options. This has been exploited, or this type of election has happened in 50 cases in 4 years which I do not think is some big, excessive problem to justify a significant system change. I am also not a fan of the debate over who has legitimacy, whether greater legitimacy has a mayor or greater legitimacy have council members in the city council. So the mayor has an individual greater legitimacy than any councilman but together they have equal legitimacy which the city council for the simple reason because they were chosen by the same electoral body. In fact, the mayor can represent between 51 and 99% of the voters. And the city council or the municipal council represents almost everything voting except that list in which they have not crossed the threshold. So in this context, this debate is completely unnecessary. So so far, we've had a case of political reluctances being resolved in the budget, it doesn't necessarily have to be in the budget, it can be in the work report on the 6th month. It could be in another case. But the fact is that a debate on the disagreement between councils and mayors should be allowed once a year, so to see how things are going. Sometimes the parliamentary majority changes, it happens here anyway, and then it doesn't have to be mentioned at all. Some mayor changes the party, sometimes throws it out of the party, sometimes changes, council members change the color, uniforms, etc. and there are certain political crises that need to be dealt with. The current solution in the law is one kind of atomic bomb, so everyone has the right to drop an atomic bomb but then destroy everything and go back to the election. In this case, as suggested. Mr. President, my colleagues behind me are still a little distracted, so if you can warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59076	But what a coalition it is for you to see it. ... Come on, come on, okay, please for correctness. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59077	They can talk, but keep it down. And 20 seconds if it's possible to return. [[The intrusion of the president: but quietly.]] So in all the solutions of '93. To date, it was an option not to consider early elections by adopting a budget. I, today in two replicas, have actually suggested that elections should not be debated at all because of not making a budget, but that all those who participate in this while temporary funding may take 4 years or 3 years. So let them explain in the people why they're on a cold drive. But during the period of temporary funding, let the chief be paid an average salary in the Republic of Croatia and the council that they have no council fees. So it seems to me that you would agree very quickly either on the budget or on new choices. That might be one change that would solve many political crises, so so on. method by pocket. What I would give to the mayor's new authority in the bill is the appointment of the headmaster. So that the presidents get official status, not that the mayors have to assume that they're changing, that they're changing their systems to form new administrative departments, and then as a replacement head or as a new head. The proposal was otherwise in the first reading of the 2012 law but then one principle coalition of mayors and all parties that were then in the Assembly advocated that this solution would not be the solution. I think they were influenced by officers who were in their local self-government units at the time, that's what I think. Of course, there are good things in this law that we've been thinking about, while we've been acting in power to change them, one of these is the unpaid day of the year for council members to attend council meetings. It was already a request within the ministry. I'm still going back to this most important part, and that's the resolution mechanism in case you don't get a budget. I think the proposal is in Article 21, which is that elections are only possible for the mayor if the council changes its amendments so much or that I so eloquently say massages the budget that this one is forced to withdraw, that he only goes to elections, that is one kind of thing I would suggest that you remove this article from the final draft of the law. So the real government, however, is the mayor and is a much greater motive for the council of "enemies" to relieve the mayor than the mayor's motive for going to the election and shifting council. And every mayor makes more or less effort to let his budget pass that he doesn't have to go to elections, but sometimes the mayor feels that the citizens know that the majority of the council is destructive that he wants to cause the elections and I would allow him to do so. So I'll repeat, I think it's more motivation for the council to relieve the mayor than for the mayor to replace the council. But if they are so destructive that even the mayor, here I see that colleagues from the HDZ are nodding their heads, if they are so destructive that they challenge and provoke amendments to the budget that the budget does not adopt to be withdrawn by the mayor, it should enable the mayor to challenge the elections for the city and municipal council. So this article you put into the law after the public debate failed to remove this lex sheriff from the name of this law although he with these provisions would actually be lex ficus more than lex sheriff, but my suggestion is that this mechanism should not be in the final draft of the law, to allow that if the mayor withdraws the budget to then go elections for both. And secondly, these so-called. Repeated elections after the first elections, I think it would be fair if the council first went to the elections, so the citizens gave the council a new confirmation that they do not have to ask for a third confirmation then let this one in the 7th month when the elections are repeated go only to the mayor. Then the council will in some way have the opportunity to risk sacrificing itself for the first time, but then for the second time if the council wins most of the votes with the citizens, then let the mayor ask the citizens for his confirmation, not the Council for the third time again. That would be one thing that balances it out, so you throw this out so the chief himself goes to the polls before the new year, but you send him to the elections alone in the summer when he's lost twice. He lost his first time for the council in the regular elections and lost second time for the council in the extraordinary elections because the council did not accept his budget the second time. In this case, only in other elections could only send the chiefs to the elections so that the council does not have to be established but the new chief will propose to the old council a budget that can be adopted. The other provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government are to a certain extent correcting this law. Because of this and because of the club's position and this part about the law-making mechanism and the budget-making, I think the way it's written is the current solution better. And if there are certain changes in the second reading, then we'll consider at the club eventually if we decide to correct our position on this law. I am not inclined to seek forced cohabitation, I am in favour of dealing with problems, if not in any other way with elections because sometimes it is better to go to elections immediately and solve the political crisis by elections, it is sometimes solved, but to keep the municipality and the city prisoners with the relations of councils and mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59078	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59079	Dear colleague Bauk, saying whether this law is called lex sheriff, lex ficus, or whatever I think this whole debate today has come down to only one topic, how to challenge the crisis, how to change this or that, how to cause some new elections, not in the sense that the crisis can be avoided, that the council is more normally functioning and that this mayor as the directly elected head of the local self-government unit is some sort of executive power, which is more efficient, which is more efficient in realising all those projects that have been done. But for the replica, I answered the moment you said the re-election of the head of the management department. We've already had that practice, and she lived somewhere, it seems to me, until 2004, then that part was abolished. I would have touched here on this and discussed it on the board when the minister laid out this law, and what helped us, or all the leaders of the local self-government units, and then, in a way, tied the representative body to that and such a mayor, although he was chosen by the council members at the time, it was the body that was in 2009-2013, which concerned the headship itself. So the members of the headship that you were changing in your law and in 2009 were completely eliminated and some form of advisory body was created that had absolutely no responsibility in the sense of the implementation of the projects as it had the headship. The members of the headship who had been in office for four years with some mayor, the headship that discussed all the important things in the implementation of the projects, would have been very much the body in that city and the mayor as an executive body, giving strength and opportunity to realise numerous projects. Because he's alone with his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59080	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59081	The headship was removed from the laws of amendments in 2007, i.e. 2008 and it seems to me, then the Constitutional Court, i.e. the former Constitutional Court Mr. Paladic was a state secretary and was one whole set of laws. That's when I was, I think you were in the Parliament back then, and maybe you weren't, which we changed 50 laws, where the headship's powers were transferred either to the chief or to the representative's body. One absurdity occurred, which is that the representative body was ultimately involved in the administrative procedure. For example, the award of concessions on maritime good in the final decision shall be made by the representative body, although it is a competition. And the representative body as parliament has the right to vote anyway. Therefore, the role of the representative body in, say, the administrative procedure requires unnecessary. The representative body is a political body, parliament and it should not be involved in this. Whether to reintroduce the chieftains. Yes, but there was a solution, too, if you remember in small municipalities where he was the headless chieftain, who was a bit of a council president. And that's the kind of solution we had. That the executive power was at the head of the representative body. The chief was also president of the council. That's what it seemed to me by 2005 or 2004. So we had different solutions. As for this, therefore, as the mayor is elected directly, he is the head of the executive authority, should not have a majority in the representative body, it does not originate. Should we have any body that helps him? That you should have some body that helps him, probably yes. But then it's the mayor's advisory body again, because there's no one to choose from. The representative body won't choose him, because he doesn't represent the majority. And you won't go to the election with the mayor and the members of the headship in particular. So he can only be named mayor. There's no middle of it, at least in my understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59082	Thank you. Thank you for the next 2 MPs are not here, Miro Bulj and Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, so they lose the right to discuss and move on to the final address of the promoter, respected Minister Lovro Kuščević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59083	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians and parliamentary representatives. Well, here we are from almost 10 hours ago. We're listening to a good constructive debate. In most cases, therefore, in most cases, in my opinion a good constructive debate, with good proposals and no doubt at all with good intentions, good wishes, that this law really wins the purpose that the promoter has, which is to fix the system, to allow for the better functioning of units of local and regional self-government. However, at the very end, here as a proposing, a representative of the legislator, I must once again point out and warn about some of the thesis that has appeared here, which really has nothing to do with reality, reality and what is happening. First, the compliance of the law with the Constitution. I refuse, the law is in accordance with the Constitution with the European Charter with all the positive, legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia. There's no doubt about it. Secondly, which is, for example, as a proposer, a little sometimes distracts me, the adoption of laws for Bandic, the passing of laws for small units of local self-government, the passing of laws for large units of local self-government, for one party, for the sake of the other party, for the sake of the majority for the minority, indeed the promoter, the Ministry has not yet led to the interests of any individual mayor, mayor, any single political party, options, positions or opposition. The law was passed, i.e. The bill was made, with the intention of being adopted in the Croatian Parliament and is valid for all units of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, for all political parties, for all officials, regardless of political membership, and so it will be. Yes we have heard here a thorough reform, is, I believe that this is really necessary, that we need to make a reform not only of local and regional self-government, but of public administrations. It is one of the reform measures adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which it is working on next year, as I announced, we will have here I hope, concrete, good and quality moves. Now, as far as the law is concerned. I think here it is, after all, seen here from this debate, so even the president of the SDP Club has confirmed it, that it was before he said it was a lex fix than a lex sheriff. Of course, I wouldn't say Lex is a sheriff, not a lex fix, not a lex council. This bill does not strengthen powers, pardon, body leaders, this proposal really strengthens direct direct democracy through the representative council. And not just through the council, but through some direct forms, not... democracy, referendum, that's what I was talking about, here on several occasions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we want to make, better, better quality relationship between the representative body and the executive body, in order to improve the quality of work of units of local and regional self-government. We can't, we've heard suggestions here from even one representative gentleman, it's a story of a company meeting, so how come the congregation can't resolve exactly, so I don't think that's appropriate for this debate at all. Comparing the congregation and the company and the representative bodies and, of course, it is not comparable at all, as this relationship between the Parliament-Government, because these are people elected directly in the mayoral elections, the mayors, while the Parliament chooses the Government and while the Chamber of Commerce chooses the administration, so I don't think we should have that mustache of basic concepts. And I can finally conclude, thank you again, really, for a good debate. There are things that I can, right now, tell you on some of you that we're going to put on a procedure, put on a desk in front of a working group, in front of my colleagues and colleagues in the ministry of the type, that decision in the official messenger, the publication of a decision in the official messenger on the appointment or resolution of members of companies. You should consider what your colleague Bacic said, and we heard the debate, and it's a referendum call. ... to allow the representative body to discuss the referendum, but still only with a referendum that can be dissolved because only citizens chose by the leader. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Council fees whether to leave them to local self-government units, whether to edit them in more detail or to leave them even more to local self-government units. I think that's good. Well, here's my colleague, Bauk, at the end of the day, I've said some combination, but I haven't been able to catch that, so Mr. Representative, you and I may talk about it in four eyes later tomorrow, to hear what your proposal is. I certainly appreciate everything that has been said, expressed in the best of terms, and here I expect that we will very soon adopt this bill as well or in a certain part modified soon in the Croatian Parliament and that the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government, at least a large majority for 2018, will be passed already under this law. Thank you for your discussion. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59084	I thank the Minister of Administration, Mr. Lovra Kuštević, for this final word. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank Minister Lovri Kuštević and Secretary of State Mr Darko Neka for the reasons. Thank you very much. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59085	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, first reading, P.Z. No. 2015 The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most 78 for, 1 abstention and 46 against, draws the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59086	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 209. The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to invite the motionary's representative, State Secretary Fran Matusic, to further explain this bill to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59087	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives. Here is a new proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism, and the reason why we are proposing a new law is that the applicable law of 2007 is assessed as limiting the development of the overall provision of services in tourism and strengthening the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, as well as the obligation to transpose the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 25 November 2015 on travel in package arrangements and related travel arrangements. The relevant newspapers proposed in this legislative proposal are as follows. So, first of all, compliance with Directive 2015/2302. on travel to package arrangements and related travel arrangements. Member States are obliged to adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 1 January 2018 with the application of this Directive from 1 July 2018. The legislative framework needs to be adapted to market development in order to make it more appropriate for the EU internal market in order to remove ambiguities and address problems related to the closure of existing legal gaps related to consumer rights in relation to package travel and related travel arrangements, adapting the area of passenger protection in view of the development of the Internet as a new medium through which services and travel on-line are offered or sold, and improving transparency and increasing legal certainty for passengers and traders. Furthermore, the paper in this law is a reduction of administrative barriers to the discharge of entrepreneurs, so there is no longer a need to come up with a solution for the tourist agency, to meet the minimum technical conditions for the tourist agency and minimum conditions for the business of the tourist agency, to come up with a solution for providing tourist services on the agricultural economy, to come up with solutions for providing tourism services for tourism services, to categorize water facilities for nautical tourism, and to find solutions for providing other tourist services, to rent supplies and equipment for sport and recreation such as sandoline, sailing boards, water bikes, sun umbrellas, decks and so forth. The paper in the proposal for a new law is also a professional examination of tourist guides, which will consist of a general section for the entire Republic of Croatia and of a special section for protected units, i.e. localities by county, which the programme will be prescribed by the Minister in a way that increases the number of teaching hours and practical courses. This proposal also empowers the Minister of Tourism to prescribe, in addition to the previous opinion of the Ministers responsible for Culture and Nature Protection, a list of protected units. The rules on protected units will cover tourist units and localities from the now applicable rules on the list of tourist sites per county, as well as the registered goods of the Republic of Croatia on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Furthermore, it is also arranged to provide services to a tourist guide to nationals of another State contract contracting European economic space and Swiss confederation on a temporary or occasional basis. Since there were already some questions before the meeting of the Croatian Parliament about these articles. I must point out that our obligation is to respect the already transposed directives which have been transposed by other laws into Croatian legislation and thus to carry out these tasks on a temporary basis and... The basics are already covered by the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications which transposed Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications and its amendments and additions made by Directive 2013/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013, so that it is clear that this is an obligation under the Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the regulation of the tourism service of health tourism and the providers of these services, which ultimately depends on the regulations governing healthcare, are newspapers in this law, where, of course, we allow different institutions to deal with health tourism but if they are allowed by their basic Health Protection Act. Furthermore, tourist services in congress tourism are additionally arranged. Tourist services in congress tourism are also services for designing ideas solutions, planning, consulting, promotion, registration of participants, and content and technical organisations and the implementation of meetings and events themselves. Guests may provide technical organisation services and the implementation of meetings and events involving accommodation services in this catering facility. The paper is also an additional arrangement of tourism services for active and business tourism because the law that has been in force since 2007 did not provide for activities such as adventure tourism, and in this way we opened the space to really respond to the needs that are happening on the market daily and to regulate this area by law. In addition, services are also arranged at agricultural holdings and hunting sites. According to the applicable law, certain tourist services could be provided at the OPG and forest owners' forests, and now they will be able to manage all other agricultural holdings organised either as a company, crafts or as an OPG, and forest owners' forests and in hunting grounds. An additional new law also provides for the arrangement of tourist transfer services. Tourist transfer is a service contracted for a well-known passenger, user service consisting of organising tourist assistance and transport of passengers, its luggage between the place of providing different travel services, especially between passenger terminals, i.e. station, port, sea, river and air transport and accommodation facilities on arrival or return between accommodation facilities, or to or from the place of provision of any other contracted catering or tourist service. We also allow this bill for the first time in a legal way to enable churches and religious communities to organise pilgrimages and other travels in the function of promoting and manifesting faith. Furthermore, it is also arranged to provide personal car rental services, rent a car without a driver. The applicable law did not regulate this, and the rental of a vehicle with a driver will be arranged by a regulation governing road transport, so in the jurisdiction of the other ministry but we have already harmonised our views in this proposal. There is also a question of tourist diving that has not been arranged in any way so far. Also, the next newspaper is raising the level of foreign language knowledge for tourist guides and business leaders. Furthermore, the reduction in the amount of criminal penalties, the introduction of an opportunity to remove irregularities and deficiencies identified by inspection supervision without penalties. This is one newspaper that's been requested by all the entities. It was simply necessary for certain entities that did not have adequate solutions in inspection to warn themselves that they had to amend and comply within a reasonable period of time, after which, of course, if they did not do so in the first wave, I would say, so no penalties would be charged. However, in the case of the next misdemeanor, the non-compliance of the law would be charged. The said solution will also meet expectations, so the provider of tourism services and their professional associations, or chambers, which have proposed similar solutions with proposals to reduce infringements on several occasions. Finally, to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, nor in the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59088	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Franna Matusic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59089	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, here I am glad that you are now coming after the presentation of this other law that was before you. And what's this about? So this past law and this law that you are now presenting to the Tourism Service Act enables the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. What's going on? So our rural development programme has been designed, that is, we have programmed the financing of additional non-agricultural activities, that is, tourism in all agricultural economies and those family and crafts and companies, and this is now possible by this law. So what we have already put into the programme in 2014 means now this law, and implementation is expected, i.e. the wide range of competitions for rural tourism financing, i.e. sub-measures 6.2 and 6.4 by the end of the year. Here's what's gonna be possible if we adopt the second reading before the hearings themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59090	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic. Do you have an answer? Here's State Secretary Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59091	I would like to thank you for your esteemed MPs. We see indeed great potential in rural tourism and we believe that this is to enable all those who are engaged in agriculture to further through tourism services not only expand tourism services throughout Croatia, but above all that the continental part of Croatia is even more actively involved in its production, especially in this part of agricultural products, and that it is actually a plasma that will be directly towards tourists, according to those who will come to their farms to enable them of course and better profit and better life, and it will provide all the participants with a new niche so that we do not have some centres where most of the tourist traffic takes place. In this way we will relieve and manage these destinations better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59092	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. We have another replica. Dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59093	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I welcome this decision, that is, to amend the law where we address this situation where actually foreign citizens, tourist guides could come to the Republic of Croatia and actually provide tourist guide services however they wanted and wherever they wanted. While at the same time our tourist guides had to pass a professional exam for each county separately. But then the question arises now that they are evened out whether it is necessary to be even and in what way you will, and if you want to regulate how to actually protect our citizens and our tourist guides, that we do not actually give the possibility of a foreign citizen to do something that our tourist guide stands for on the bureau or can not actually do that job. Because when we look at few other member states, EU Member States are not exactly the kind of situation that Croats can come to other countries and determine, providing tourist guide services as well as foreigners can come to Croatia. So other countries have limited themselves, so some to this extent, such as Austria, where a Croatian citizen's tourist guide is not allowed to come and provide a tourist guide service, in fact, to pay huge fines and the measure goes even to banishment from the country. So I want to know how we will protect our citizens, or our people, or the people of Croatia who are engaged in providing tourist guide services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59094	I thank my esteemed colleague, the State Secretary's reply, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59095	Just a short, namely, application of this directive that I have already talked about, an introduction relating to both professional qualifications and recognition and regulated professions. So by doing so, we were obliged to introduce into our legislation the basis on which foreign guides can, foreign guides concerning European space, so the EU, let's also speak to the Swiss Confederation so that they can carry out this activity temporarily and occasionally. So we were obliged to provide it to all their guides who submitted evidence that they were guides and were guides in those countries during a certain period. On the other hand, our guides, all that is permitted now by foreign guides in Croatia, can do the same to our guides in other countries. I can, yeah, I can exactly what I'm saying is true. So I can do it on that same basis because it is a directive that is mandatory for all EU countries and that is exactly the data, believe me, it is the correct information, you can check it. What is the newspaper of this law is true is that the regulation of 2014 which was adopted was in some way discriminatory. And that was actually the basis for bringing these newspapers into this law where we evened out the de facto domestic guides with foreign guides in a way that if foreign guides come to Croatia and can lead all over Croatia but not on protected sites like the case so far. So our guides who have passed the exams for protected sites are only those guides who can guide or foreign guides who will have to tomorrow after the adoption of this law will have to lay down everything our guides have laid down for protected localities so by county. So another thing, in particular, in Croatia, we have a situation that our guides in a particular county of protected localities or the general part can lead only in that county by protected localities, cannot run in other counties. So I can only do for those counties they've passed for. The situation was such that our guides so far were unable to lead, for example, in other counties and were able to lead the sides. So we've changed it completely now, it's fully in favour of protection and better interpretation of our localities, and in that sense it's a big newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59096	I thank the Secretary of State. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? Thank you. [[Intruder: No.]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj He's not present, he's losing his right. [[Intruder: He's gone.]] On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59097	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After a debate of several hours related to the so-called lex., so no matter what they call it when it comes to local and regional self-government comes one way or another, I would say, still making it easier to provide services in tourism. And the three basic elements of this law I read is that it is doing better with the development of tourism, with the possibility of employment in tourism and the extension of the tourist season. So everyone who deals with tourism either directly or indirectly or argues about it is talking about the desire to extend the tourist season in Croatia. The tourist season will not be extended because we have good wishes but must create certain conditions. And you can see it well in tourism and you can see it in other branches. So what we all deal with, the jobs we do are much faster and more pro-pulsory than we're willing to change some regulations and admit in regulations that some things have changed. And of course there's criticism for both the former and the present and the future, we really need to be much faster. What a good example of that, actually. So, the topic of health tourism. About four, five years ago, on one of our islands, there was a desire to form in the spatial plan of a single zone and it was intended for the area to be intended for health tourism. I will not say how much time, energy and effort we have spent to see what it is, what it is in terms of tourism, so what it is in terms of the law, was then still the Law on Spatial Planning, so how it will be defined and the rest. So what's our feature, we like to regulate everything. I'd say I like to re-regulate some things, and then everyone defends their resor until the last drop of blood and explains not how something can and what the conditions are and how they can rather than how something can't. Therefore, I highly appreciate that they are related, and I read here the extension of the tourist season that certain elements are related to congress tourism in this law, and then some other types of tourism are mentioned. So it's a special emphasis on health tourism because in nature it really works, even in some cities it works that I don't speak about services where the service is, so the dentists here are much cheaper, so life goes on, people earn, people work, regardless of how we define it by law. So it is about health tourism, I absolutely appreciate it, but there is always a little problem in which all legislation needs to be harmonised, so it should be warned when opinions are given on this law. It is equally good to regulate religious tourism, for the simple reason that it has been unregulated so far, was anyone able to deal with it, under which conditions and indeed on the ground there was one particular opposition. I have to admit, it's already quite late, when you are and that's what the secretary of state said, says a vehicle without a driver, I was there in one completely different story because there are already vehicles out there that don't drive drivers, so I thought wait a little while, which we've already made a step further and we're already introducing, through tourism, of course, it was a physical person and not what's further, but a joke aside. I would especially stress this custom that has been in this House lately, which is when someone comes by the opposition, it is not heard and automatically rejected because as it does not matter. I'd say some things here, just think about it, so maybe there's some potential and there's a chance to think about it a little bit. The first subject that I find somewhat controversial is the provision of Article 14(3), and that is the space in which the travel agency works. It is in the desire to make it really easier and this is the part of employment where it says that a tourist agency that only provides its services and contracts through websites or similar online systems can do so in the space of living space. So, to me, in principle, it's not foreign, I'm, like, 15 years old, reading this very interesting book of a young Australian architect who was talking about an imaginary city of the future, which I've been doing through an example of a man who hasn't come out of his apartment his whole life because everything he's been doing, he's been doing from his apartment. He had the internet supply of food, which was absolutely impossible then, he did everything he needed from his apartment and it seemed to me that I would not see for my working and living life, but obviously I will see it, and it's not a problem for me, but look at the regulation that there's no problem with the registration and some other things, I'm very good at pointing out that it didn't open up to you as a problem but to see it. In your wish of employment you have and I'm always very careful here and I think you should make it easier there, you have a professional exam for a tourism manager and he's taking the test committee of the ministry. We really have this desire to re-regulate everything together so that we can think about it together to be a little bit more liberal or more flexible and to really think about whether or not you should, why, what kind of experience you have, what part of it you need, about tourist guides, what you were really responsible for at one point was a major resistance to the tourist guides who are our and the foreigners who come because in the first run we didn't have, what was important to the tourist guides in their country, they were worth the same conditions in Croatia and in Croatia were much more stringent for ours. And in the context of tourist guides and protected spaces, you are talking about a regulation that will define protected localities and should be given the opinion of the Minister responsible for culture and nature protection affairs, that is, in this case, all ministries. And there can always be a certain dilemma that doesn't match each other, that these are some protected that aren't there. Maybe think about some common rulebook or get attached, refer to something from those resistors, so it's about 3 resistors to simplify. The resort of tourism will bring into agreement two other ministers who are for the protection of cultural heritage and for the protection of natural heritage, they will give consent to a regulation that will define protected facilities from the aspect of tourism because of the work of tourist guides. So these aren't any new protected, they're protected in accordance with the provisions of other regulations, and here the regulations are only defined so that you can distinguish the guides who do what. So here, if I understand it well and I think I understand it and I read it well together, it seems to me that it might be better to tie it to those regulations that already exist or anything because in this way you are always in danger of you or something being reregulated, when from the aspect of the protection of cultural heritage, sometimes something can be taken away from the aspect of cultural protection, but you're kind of staying quite softly speaking. I speak very softly and affirmably because I think it is a very correct law and a law that is affirmative, which further improves and in that sense should be spoken of. So I'm saying, there may be some more issues here, but I'm pointing to these three topics, so I think that this expert exam for a leader is a little bit restrictive, so think about maybe being more flexible here, we're talking about space, not because it's not a good solution, but because some other regulator might not be following it, so there's a problem that I'm going to be using and talking about these protected spaces, so it's that they're protected under another regulation, the rule is that this ministry, with the consent of the other two ministries, and there's always a danger of mutual discrepancies that someone else from something else is giving up so that you can't do it in an adequate way by being able to do it more from the aspect of nature protection... Well, after a while, that preventive protection still doesn't stay, so I just don't think you bring it here, one colleague said about another law that he doesn't want to be a bigger pope than the Pope or I don't know, so maybe we're keeping an eye on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, the GLAS and HSU club will support this law first reading, for second reading if we see some things that, there will be a free amendment, but I think there's room to think about it possibly a little bit more detailedly regulating that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59098	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Anton Kleman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59099	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a colleague of Taritash, what was mentioned for business premises, so to regulate minimum technical conditions if I managed to understand well, I think an excessive deregulation of this issue can be a question of the quality of the service at all. This law regulates a very complex issue of arrangements which is no longer a simple story because everything is regulated through that law, before it was partly regulated through the Law on Mandatory Relations, it is now all in this law and it is not easy to come to an unconditional space as it is now regulated by the law, which did not define it as it should be and sit people, half an hour, with them to discuss and to be in space undefined under minimum technical conditions. I think that the ministry should think about it a little bit, but think about how that space should be, and maybe through some other rule, through some other novel, see if any minimum technical conditions for travel agencies, which work in business spaces, can still prescribe one commission, when a man comes to leave his money, when he has to listen concentratedly to what it's about to be in an appropriate space after all. This second part, as far as the living area where the Internet agencies are concerned, it's all clear, so it doesn't take too many regulated norms, but here it seems to me that in this part where business spaces are concerned, there's room to think about other solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59100	I thank my colleague Kleman. The answer of my colleague, Mr. Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59101	Thank you very much. So, I'm always thinking about the way in principle, that if you're overly strict, then actually maximum energy, and it always says extremely, on some terms, that the maximum energy is being used to use these exceptions. Now it's actually, we have certain standards, we have certain normatives. We have something we use in construction, we have some kind of normative, how many people can be in which space. Well, I'm sure when it comes to agencies and these normatives we can use, but surely you have some better experience than I have in this activity, so you might actually see when it comes to agencies introducing some minimum standards. But you can absolutely use standards from some of the other elements, so use for agencies to be a business space, such as offices where exactly, we already have before defined which size, i.e., the cubic space needed for one man, for 2. If they come, then perhaps there can be a link to the already existing one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59102	I thank my colleague, Anki Dark Taritate, for your reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59103	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Assistant Minister, fellow senior advisor, colleague of the Shadow, welcome. First thing I'd like to say is congratulations on this bill of law for reading. I look forward to one part of the fact that in a complex matter like this, I'm not the one who has to deal with it when I was a minister. It's been a while, but these are really complex questions. This bill of law shows, indeed, that there was a lot of communication with the profession. That's what I have to commend definitely. And the best solutions are just when you talk to the profession, when you find compromise solutions with the profession. In some ways, the Ministry represents the state, but this ministry is specific because it also represents the profession. So there must always be some measure. And I think in that work, it has succeeded in this bill to reconcile those interests. And in any case, this is a good bill and the HDZ Club will support this law first reading. In any case, what's very important to say, which is that right now what I just said has solved the question that one law regulates everything they bring for the package of arrangements. Which is very important in that whole story. We do not need to wander about the legal solution and the other laws that we have, which we were in the profession or we are in the profession of little unknowns here, all absolutely here defined up to the last word and it is one complex area that today is in the sphere of booking the package of arrangements. There comes even sometimes a question when something is being paid over an online platform. You work at the ministry, get every day and letters, which isn't sometimes what we say about our fame when there's fraud. When something is bought online, it comes to the scene, so it's not what we pay for. So this part that solves the insurance issue has just and it has solved it in one part, it will never be able to contain any manipulation and abuse, and in this sense we think that we are on a good path and that it has done and prescribed what is possible at this point. In any case, I would still point out what I said earlier to think about, that one of the heights of the profession is preserved through these minimum technical conditions. So, you don't need to pre-named some conditions, which is why you say minimum technical conditions. So, minimum conditions for a man who comes to be informed, to buy a package of arrangements, which are not, which doesn't cost little, to feel like one desirable customer, to feel like a man, because there is still a significant part of the funds left there. Here, I'd like to ask you to think about it, but you still need to preserve the height of the profession and the height of the customers. While we are already in this legislative proposal, legal solutions, we have protected the buyer as such, very well, it seems to me, all in accordance with this EU directive, so let's try to think about whether there is room for this intervention as well. What I think is very good, it is that the protection of customers, extremely good placements, is no longer a lot of lagging, is it like this, is it, rather than being very well set up by the directive, and they have a good implementation in this law. We really need a foreign exchange that has to be a buyer wrong, but the customer has to be satisfied. We here sell not only a hotel room but we sell a destination, we sell the image of a state, we sell the image of a safe country, and everything that happens today on the market is connected. So when we have a payment to Croatia, then it comes to the Croatian capacity that we have to say that we have one of the best standardized objects in all of Europe if not in the world when it comes to such a standardised facility then it must have all the offices. So when you buy it, from the beginning when it comes to the moment when you leave, when you use rent car what we read here and what is prescribed to all of these services that will be used in the package arrangement is all well prescribed and everything must be at the highest level. So far, the Ministry of Tourism with its services has done a great job, we have raised both the category and the minimum technical conditions in hotels in campsites in apartments and rooms to the highest level. With what we are not satisfied here I hear from my colleague it was an initiative and while I was at the ministry to go to the recategorization of apartments and rooms, a great story and you have to continue and submit it to the maximum and in this sense should keep those standards high, not descending below that we are already known in the markets and keep that level of service in that sense. What is very important to say is that for the first time, it is also a solution for the tourism services of health tourism and the categorization of water objects of nautical tourism where it is now deregulated and there we have to think about it a little bit. I'm not to be misunderstood by a supporter of great regulation, but we have to have one lift for everything we sell, that we have to have. So I think in that sense you should think. I once said while I was at the ministry that the biggest problem of Croatian tourism was the Ministry of Tourism. I wanted to shock the public because the tourism ministry is everywhere horizontally present, here's a colleague of Taritash just before about health tourism. The tourism ministry doesn't have nautical tourism in its portfolio, can you imagine that? There is no rural tourism in its portfolio, there is no health tourism issue in its portfolio, so that was the question where I wanted to say it. We are asked a lot to regulate some issues, but we do not have tools from the beginning to the end to do so and that is the main problem of the tourism ministry. And tourism is horizontally connected to a lot, a lot of activity. So it seems to me that the Ministry of Tourism should perhaps be the second or third ministry in the Croatian government because it deserves both results and what Croatia is currently providing as a tourist country. This is one good step to it, and we're going to do it anyway, and we've listed everything we've listed because we're always going to repeat ourselves in that part. This is good law. As far as tourist guides are concerned, there are some countries that have not yet complied with these directives. We are then thinking that some reciprocity would work with them but they too will have to be included in this circuit around this directive and will come the day when they too will have to approach the directive. In any case, this is one shift from the last law that was totally deregulated in the sense that at every site, foreign guides could appear and do the job. This is yet one step forward, the minister will take some further steps in the rulebook and I think this is going in the right direction. We've talked about it a few times, but it's not a question of this law, but I'm going to take the opportunity of a pay phone to say it too. At one point when I was reading the law while I was thinking about it, I thought of these great costs that we have as a state when we experience unwary and irresponsible tourists who come to the Croatian Adriatic among other things. You know that famous story about the Japanese and Biokov, you've heard it many times. So tourists who go to Biokovo with inadequate shoes, catch him in the weather, etc. So half the state rises to save him, search, costs that are very high, all of this pays from the state budget, the HGSS and everything else goes to our account. I thought there might be some space here through this law to regulate, however difficult, but I think perhaps the Ministry of Tourism should first run this issue as to how to secure or ensure such phenomena because we definitely have large, large budget costs. So just imagine now when the helicopter rises as much as it costs, how much when the boat goes irresponsiblely, when it's a storm, when it's announced that it's going to be a bad time, and someone's going towards the high seas, and then what's going on? That's what we all pay as taxpayers. So maybe here's to be the initiators of that story to see if it's possible to find some solution because I know well when hardworking people come from the HGSS, people who sacrifice for their job to look for, pray, godfather for some kind of kuna so they can survive, so they can organize their work. So here's what you've listed standing here and I welcome this law, here are some of my remarks that are what they are. Try to think about it in the second reading, or I'll repeat once again that the HDZ Club will support this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59104	I thank my colleague Kleman for this debate. We have a line of respect, colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59105	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a colleague of Kleman's. It was a matter of days when we would have to resolve the issue of travel arrangements, the quality of these travel arrangements and the relationship between the buyer and the one selling the arrangement. These other countries have been in place for a long time, and that part works. However, we have a large part of tourism related to small tenants, apartments that reach almost 50% of all our nights and sales in tourism, and that's where all sorts of things happen. So we have had countless cases especially now that there are more and more tourists in Croatia's Adriatic area, to come tourist to a specific destination, he has booked a certain house or apartment but that house, too, does not exist. Someone abuses the meaning of other people's advertising spaces, arrangements are being paid in, but these arrangements are not being reached. We have disappointed tourists. On the other hand small tenants also on the line sell their services via certain websites etc. They're advertised. In private relations they are with this tourist who needs to come and, of course, there is no solution to the arrangement, the realisation of the arrangements, and there are problems. So it's something that appears in our space and I think that the Ministry of Tourism must also devote a certain level of activity to small tenants, that they are also slightly or educated in their part and their obligations but that they too have a certain level of protection so that such things don't happen. Because the fact is that there's a mutual disappointment between people who want to achieve something, something to earn, and someone wants to spend their time somewhere. So I know there's more or less work for the police, but it just doesn't happen to us as an orderly country of such things because it's going to be more and more and more, and I think we should stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59106	I thank Mr. Boric. Mr. Kleman's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59107	Yeah, those are phenomena we can't escape from. What would I say first? Let's see if we can get together to book through the agency. This law handles it very well. So, on the Internet, let's try to organize as little as possible to go to risk, to go directly to the customer outside. It's always a risk that can lead to unwanted consequences, and that's exactly what you've just said to a colleague not to be realized, so summering, or not to fill the capacity. You stay empty. There's a problem, you stay 10, 15 days empty, it's hard to fill it up later, etc. So, the first thing you need to do is get into a situation with a serious agency, because through exactly what this law has prescribed is regulate the issue of insurance. So there you will be able to look for some of your reparation for the costs incurred, etc. This second part is very complicated. Is this a private relationship between someone from abroad, like Germany, Britain, Sweden, and I don't know you at Rab. I hope that didn't happen to you. Well, that's probably itchy, so you ask. Oh, no? That's the question. But mostly it's a private relationship that's hard to make up for later. Here's my instruction, as much as possible, to do business with the agencies. But you are a very wise tenant for many years, so you can know that the situation is such that they usually return with a good service in the year before or year after that always fills with old guests so that for new guests it is less, less time. Only good will it be because the season is extended, so in the preseason and the post season there will be more guests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59108	I thank my colleague Kleman for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59109	Dear Mr. Vice President, an honorary colleague of the State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I could welcome you to the person as many of us as there are in this Chamber, but this is how when a debate on such an important topic is in principle a single sky, one such important activity as tourism, one such important law perhaps one of the most important in the economic branch in which we come every year if I don't cheat over $8 billion and one 18% of GDP. Unfortunately, we're talking about it at the end of one of these pretty tough days, but I think it'd be better if we organized it at some other point, but that's the schedule. In fact, I'm going to make a connection here even though, of course, we feel that this law is positive and that it brings about good changes and I need to make one such light constructive criticism to my ministry colleagues. Because just like now, there's been a storm as we discuss it here, and I think there's been a lot of trouble when this law was released into public debate. Don't be angry, but I have to tell you that. In fact, since I'm not wrong on the 21.6th to somewhere on 30.8th, it's a public debate, which is when it comes to the law governing services in tourism, I can't imagine a worse time when a law like this can be released in public debate. People who, therefore, will be directly regulated by this law during this period were, the heart of the season working from morning till night, and I don't think they've had much time to study either, nor to participate, although this could not be said by the number of comments left by e-consultation on this law, one over 320 pages of dissatisfied tourist workers in the rule of tourist guides, our tourist guides, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay taxes, taxes and other dates for whose voice I would like to hear. And as far as I've been able to look, I've given myself some effort even though I haven't been able to read all 320 pages. Most observations and fears go towards the workplace i.e. the business of tourist guide activity. Which is kind of normal and understandable, and these people need to be understood, and I have studied the way that has now been addressed to this problem, I am aware that since 1.7.2013, the labour market has been deregulatory compared to EU citizens. And I'm aware that we have to adapt to that, that so far the situation has been where and where it's worse. And that this now in some way nivells the relationship between our domestics, let's call them, domestic tourist guides and EU citizens. However, I would like us to try to see exactly, i.e. between the two readings. Is there anything more to be done, that existing tourist guides in some way protection, although this now, may sound rough, but this is about potential fates over 3500 highly engaged, hardworking, hardworking people, tourism workers, which are basically our first contacts, well, not exactly the first contacts, but one of the most important contacts with our tourists, who sell Croatian tourist product, service. Which is basically kind of worrying that these tourists are coming back to us next year, because we're selling a service in tourism, that's the primary thing we're selling. And when the tourist is satisfied, he'll say it that year, so I'll be back next year. Croatia is small, but it is not so small, that anyone could look at it in a week or two or three weeks. I think it is extremely important that our tourist workers, tourist guides, are extremely important that our guest says this year I want to come back next year, I want to look at some more part of Croatia. I didn't see I didn't know Mljet, I didn't see Rab, maybe I didn't see Zagorje, I didn't see Slavonia. The tourist guide told me about it. I think it's important, although I am aware that we are moving in one joint legislative, i.e. The legislative European framework, however, these shifts, which you have already made with the introduction of this expert exam, which are mandatory for all EU citizens, I think is already a positive step, because I don't think we can expect much, i.e. that the concerns of tourist guides, tourist workers, may be in some way, so you wouldn't say they're exaggerated. In fact, they know best, whether it's excessive or not, every fear is justified, but somehow it doesn't seem like it's going to come to some stampede of tourist guides new from some remote destinations, since, as we can see, they still have to pass a general part of the expert exam and a special part of the exam for each location. The truth will kind of venge the level. What I would like to say is, if not for exaggeration, not only are we talking about this part, but I would still like to add, related to tourist guides, third-country nationals, therefore, who are not EU citizens. There should be thought, I mean, I also say, it won't be the same, I don't think there's going to be any stampede of a tourist guide from third countries, primarily Asian countries, it's a big speech, i.e. language barrier. But I don't think it would be bad, though, if we were to look at it in the long term, so that we could try some incentive measures to encourage our, let's say, future tourist guides, a tourist guide is one of the most important and serious professions, a lifelong one, which requires constant improvement. To encourage them to education, to learn these exotic and difficult languages, and to one day be them, who may be the most competitive on the market. But I know, that as a tourist I come anywhere in the world, that I would rather have the localities interpreted and the history of a country and some particular locality interpreted, a local man, and not someone who came, could be even a Croat, but if we don't know in Shanghai or if we don't know in Pittsburgh, it would rather be someone who's from there. With some observations here, but that's more, I have technically legal course, and I think at this point, it would be inappropriate, I think we'd be buried in the frozen, and we can talk about it later. Like I said, this is the first reading, there's space. Now that you don't realize that I'm making you feel bad, this is a good law, I say, maybe some little, little one to try to make common efforts, I was going to say, too, I saw in the comments, that quite like this, tourist guides have been offended by the fact that it is believed that the level of knowledge of foreign languages should be improved. You know that better than I do, I will not be sure to suggest whether it is a fact or not, but I have seen that a large number of people who were then referred to by other tourist guides, so obviously people who have some influence in that community, have said that it is extremely, very valuable, and on the other hand, for tourist guides who would eventually not be Croatian citizens are asked to know the language in which they will provide services at B2 level. And for Croatian, which will be used in Croatia, one definition is given enough. And now, that's say, I would suggest that maybe if there weren't some... Which means enough, to put the definition of the same, to put the B2, so it's not too restrictive again, not to put the C1 on, so it doesn't turn out that none of the foreigners can pass that, to meet that language criterion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think it would be appropriate, since it is still about people who in crisis situations have to communicate with certain services that they really know Croatian, because it wouldn't make much sense for a tourist guide to need an interpreter at some point, so if we need an interpreter, then we can solve the problem of our guests from Asia by having an interpreter with us, and our tourist guide will, in perfect English, interpret the locality of Mark's square. So they'll be able to count things, so maybe I don't even know the current political situation if they're interested, they probably don't care, but they could if they wanted to. And let's say the tourist guide is not sure the stranger will be able to present it that way. And we have to ask ourselves what the tourist guides are doing, is it just a mere demonstration of some general information that we can find online today, or is it a representation of the spirit of a community, of a locality. I think it's something, though, that it's a specific profession and I can kind of say as a graduate lawyer that I can't expect right now either, I don't know, I don't know, say. working in Germany as a graduate lawyer and expecting to get a job in Germany as you would in Zagreb. I simply chose such a profession, it is narrowly localized for a country. If I want to work in Germany, I'll have to pass a judicial exam in Germany, which won't be easy for me. So it's not the same thing about mobility, like tourist guides, graduate lawyers, or let's say it's an IT firm that can work from anywhere, anywhere. Here to think of you it's too late, there's a few of us in this hall, too bad, it's an interesting topic, and it's an important law, some important newspapers are being introduced, certain services are being regulated, which is good. I think that in such an important economic branch as tourism should not be. that we should find one good measure of regulation, on the one hand we want to deter potential investors, but this is also the Croatian member of the EU has its own rules and these rules apply to all and we need to know how to set ourselves up. And we also need to be aware that this... economic branch in which there can always be a variety of things that don't say malfeasance is a little too hard to say, but people like to use when... somewhere there's some kind of indiscretion. So I welcome the fact that some new services have been regulated and I think it will contribute to further strengthening tourism as a branch of the economy which, as I said, contributes so much to the Croatian budget and we hope that this will continue in the coming years. We know that tourism is one sensitive branch that can be affected by things that can't be terribly changed overnight, but we hope everything will be okay. And the light weather comes to an end, I would like to appeal to one thing only, I saw that the Croatian Mountain Guides Union has given one good argument. So if we have nautical tourism, we have rural tourism, we have continental, we have no idea how we said adventure, congressional, I think mountain guides deserve to be given the same status as diving tourism, which is usually one phenomenal thing. I think Croatia is one of the top diving destinations recreationally and I think it would be good because it is one branch of tourism i.e. can be a very important tourist branch for me not used enough, so I'm talking about our mountain areas, we're talking about an extremely sensitive ecological sphere where these mountain guides aren't just in the function of selling some content in the sense that I say food and drink. They have a very important educational, preventive character, they are truly true lovers of nature in what they do. I think that would contribute to their kind of let's say that we improve them as a particular type of service, it would be a great recognition to them, and I think it would also mean so much to our environment and nature, and ultimately to all the inhabitants of those parts who would then be very likely to further improve and develop. Finally, I would like to say that the HNS Club will support this law in its first reading and that we sincerely hope that all these discussions that have been held today will be held here tonight and possibly debates that may come from tourist employees, so by the profession that will be respected and that by the next reading we will have an even better law and that we will adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59110	I thank my fellow Sauchi for this debate. We have two replicas. First replica of the esteemed colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59111	Thank you very much, Vice President. You told a fellow Sach one truth, which is when guests from those like you exotic countries like the Chinese, Japanese, Koreans, etc. have a problem with guides in Croatia. I remember last year was a delegation from the Ministry of China with some of its partners, or employees from China who were tour operators, and since Budapest was their homeport for long-distance flights, they had a problem in how to hire our Chinese-language guides here. When two to three groups came to Zagreb, in particular to Zagreb we couldn't hire more people, that's the problem. And now we have to figure out how we're going to regulate this issue of location that will be prescribed by the ministry. Whether we have, there we must keep an eye on, a sufficient number of guides that will be able to provide a quality service, which is primarily of great interest to us or let those guides who come with the group in the package arrangement do so. Here we will have to see if we have and we have to keep working on the education of what you said, encourage people that ministry has a key role to play even from its small, I must say, resources may work on the education of guides in this sense to be in contact with the Association of Guides for education for these exotic languages and we see from year to year that more and more guests come from these destinations to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59112	Thank you, colleague Kleman, for your response to my colleague, Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59113	Well, I agree with you, I mean, look, we work here, we see groups of tourists from Asian countries every day, and I live here at the end of the day, so I see them maybe a little more often than the others. I'm aware, it's a very big problem. And it is a very narrow throat through which we as a tourist country must somehow find a way and of course we must not allow any guest to leave Croatia unsatisfactory and I think that they are also one specific group of guests who also have their own cultural and their own kind of way of saying, you should also know that some things are presented to them, taking care of them in an appropriate way. I'm sure it's something that's a big problem that has to be solved, I'm sure there are no more than a few guides in Zagreb who know Chinese or Japanese or Korean, but I think it can be temporarily bridged with translators, so I think I've been up to this point and I've seen it here in the center of town, unless it's not poachers, tourist guides, so we didn't know about it. But I'm saying, in the long run, it wouldn't be too bad maybe if they were to invest right here, to send people on some study trips, eventually they'd get to know them as a guest so they could prepare them better as travel organizers. I mean in the end, I say, I think it is these guests, possibly their tourist guides do not pose a threat to us because I do not believe that there will now be more than a few of those aspirants in one year who would like to come from China to Croatia to work as tourist guides if they have to meet all these conditions, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59114	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sauchi, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59115	Comrade Sauch, I have listened carefully to yours and I agree with you that the proposal should be put on another reading and I will vote for it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59116	Thank you very much, colleague Pernar, for calling her that. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Professor Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59117	Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, assistants, advisors, colleagues and colleagues. We have already heard a lot, we have also discussed on the board a few key things that have been most commented on this law in the public and we have agreed more or less on the fact that the opportunity between the two readings is that certain things are possibly corrected and agreed with the interested communities of tourist workers to say so. Of course, these issues are the most related to the status of tourist guides and market conditions to say these tourist activities and something that today, at least I didn't, perhaps someone mentioned, we have therefore another group called tourist escorts. So these are people who should primarily deal with the organisation of travel and actually follow tourists, but the fact is that in practice it is very often trafficked that these people are actually doing the job of guides, in a way informally. In this law, their status is intended to be such that they do not have to take any exams in the future in order to be a tourist escort, and there is one part of the community of these tourist guides in some way and notice and appeal, given that many of them have already passed certain courses and paid some money and should have passed some additional exams regardless of which school or college they came from, perhaps some colleges and had passed before, etc., etc. So in any case, they invested some resources, they had to do something, and it happens, of course, that they also have unfair competition. Perhaps in this sense something could be even more precise and generally regulated, the problem is that in such a situation a hole can be created through which many who may not have this basic qualification can be pushed through and do the work that will be done in the future. Generally, here's what I'm going to say about this segment of education, we generally have a serious problem with human resources in tourism, and it's clear to all of us, it's for one of those sectors that is of exceptional strategic importance for Croatia, 20% of the practical GDP we're achieving there, at this point it's certainly one of the biggest problems. So on the side of the investment, improving the quality of accommodation, constantly improving the services that at least in this legitimate sense will contribute to this law but remains the insolvent one I would say at this point the problem, which is the problem of the labour force in tourism. I talked to some people in this education sector above all secondary education where the largest number of tourist employees are recruited, so in the professions of catering workers, waiters, chefs, housekeepers, these, they, they, so we have a huge problem here. In schools, especially in Dalmatia, so on the Adriatic that deals with education, in these professions you today have 3.4 students in the class enrolled, according to 15 professors working practically for a small number of people who are educated there and it is already a monster to say so and it is a serious problem. On the other hand, our young people who came down in the summer season to say so to the Adriatic, above all from these continental parts of Slavonia, they have now found some new niches. Now their destination is somewhere outside Croatia. Is that Ireland? Is that Germany? Is that Great Britain? And actually that in some way, that rerouting our domestic labour force in that segment creates an additional problem. These are the real challenges for me for you at the Ministry of Tourism how to make it up to you. I know that both operational and tourism companies and businesses are dealing with this in a variety of ways, and the government is there to think about how it can help, which is with these working quotas, how to satisfy this demand and all together in some way balance, and not actually do happen this imbalance that could reduce the results in the overall tourism sector. We also have an unforeseen situation. So here, we have a situation of Agrokor where one of the non cors is so I say activities is also tourist activity. There were some investments planned, some tour operators came in, they had already offered some tourist services to guests above all from abroad. These services will not be possible because of the overall situation, so capacity will not be available, etc. etc. So there are a lot of these unforeseen situations and, of course, the state cannot ignore but must help in the way it can. And I'm just going to conclude that we and on the board have more or less supported this law with these kind of remarks that we've made there, too. And I say here I hope that this period of second reading will be used for appropriate improvements and for respecting part of all those remarks that are there in public consultation days, so on a huge number of pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59118	I thank Mr. Branko Greek for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59119	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I answered only briefly to Mr. Greek on a replica, because actually what he was saying moved me to think, and before Mr. Saucha had good suggestions about this law and I hope that by the second reading they would be improved when he talked about those mountain guides. In fact, I would also like the Ministry of Tourism and the people involved in tourism to always bear in mind that the area and market that belongs to us in our immediate environment is almost a market of 500 million people and that, in fact, not only in this coastal part but also in the rural part, i.e. in Zagorje part of the Republic of Croatia, there is room for the development of tourism, i.e. for the expansion of the tourist season. The other day we were only here because of one video, one great video that was made, and we had a short break because one part of continental Croatia did not appear in that video. But what moved me to your replica, Mr. Greek, I once remembered as a student at the same university as a tourist guide, and then a very special Professor Lapenda actually gave us these lectures for tourist guides and in fact his great knowledge and... helped all tourist guides in Split to receive prestigious rewards, i.e. to make tourists happy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as tourist guides are concerned as unfair competition, and you spoke about it, Mr. Secretary of State, is the following. The general part may be possible and acceptable, however, it especially related to certain locations in the Republic of Croatia should certainly not be led by foreigners unless they themselves have passed the same exams as our tourist guides do. And I am sure that very soon there will already be at the Bregani border, on some of the tourist seasons stand that everything is busy and that the direction is, say, Serbia or Hungary because there will be insufficient capacity to eat and drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59120	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. I don't see in your replica anything content that could replicate to Mr. Greek, but if Mr. Greek found something you have an answer to? You don't. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59121	I would like to thank the Vice President, and I would like to welcome the representatives of the motionary. This is an important topic, and unfortunately one is a trend in the Parliament until as long as the topics are important, although every proposal that comes can always be completed and we will probably change this law in some future period. When the initial proposal is good, then there is not too much of us in the debate, because in order for such proposals to be upgraded, then there is much work to be done, study, go into detail to make them better. When we talk about the period from fourteenth to twentieth, for which tourism development strategies have been adopted, were individual local self-governments, whether this national astoundingly how key words religious tourism, active tourism, adventure tourism appear, and it is amazing that we now define this in one law because this law is not just for the sake of this directive. Comrade Bulj, please silence while I speak, colleagues from the Most, please! So we are not only bringing about the protection of consumers and of this directive, but we are bringing about a large series of limiting factors for the development of all these other forms of tourism other than the sun and the sea. And what happened in practice to say that we want to develop it, we would represent it as a tourist product. We'd do, say, various tickets to active and adventurous tourism, send people up to the mountain, but there wouldn't be that person, that adventurous active guide who'd actually issue an account for that service we're offering. We would promote, for example, museums or religious tourism, and in that museum that is part of a religious facility, no one could issue an account and we would classify it as tourism, and I think that, as a tourist product and something we can't charge, I don't think we can even call it a product because it's not on the market. Here I would like to stress that since I come from the highest mountain in the Republic of Biokovo that I am pleased and that they all praise those who appeared in front of the Alliance of Mountain Guides for discussion and in this course of counseling where they responded to these demands, I invite you to take a good look at how well they can be adopted, either later in the form of regulations, but it is very important that our area in the touristic sense is best known by the sun and the sea and by saving those unfortunate tourists on Biokovo. And it is very important for us to get this done as a colleague in front of the HNS club, it is very important that we have this form of mountain tourism. And what would point out is precisely the definition of these activities allows us to say what I said earlier about the use of eu funds. 2015 Croatia lost to the European Social Fund 30m kuna, which concerned an increase in employability due to slowness. It would be difficult to implement this programme if you wanted to increase employability, by requalifying different people who are at the institution to implement these forms of tourism that are needed in our area there you couldn't have been able to define in which way they could get approval to work. Since tourism is highly linked to other resorts and tourism funds are mostly implemented through other ministries, unfortunately this part of which relates to and on, it is now almost finished with the reconstruction of the hotel is not implemented through the tourism ministry at all but through the Ministry of Economy. As well as this large part of the key problems of education, human capacities will be implemented through the European Social Fund and the Ministry of Tourism will not have to deal with this, therefore this cooperation is important. And also in those things where they're going to touch, here on Tourism Days we've heard about competence centers, even 314 million kunas are reserved for it, and here I invite you to be very flexible, or maybe it's more to be directed towards the Ministry of Education because it's very important that tourism is not the most developed in those areas where public institutions for education are developed and I think it's very important to allow such centres for competence and by other entities, of course with the supervision and approval of these institutions. But I think it'll all make it easier to implement this law of services in tourism, and that's the most important thing of what I'm saying we won't be longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59122	I thank my colleague, Dear Roscic, for this debate. We have the final word, respectable secretary of state, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, for a while, he would refer to what we could hear in the debates. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary representatives and representatives who participated in the debate and their constructive proposals, and I hope that by the second reading we will be able to install as many things as we can. But given all the praises that this law has received in the first reading, I think it's very little, but here I'm going to try to meet all of these demands that we've heard in the debate. Just for a little while, to answer some of the things that have come up, which may not be based on facts or perhaps insufficient knowledge of previous actions that preceded certain things that were in preparation for this law. I think Mr. Saucha mentioned the public debate during the tourist season, that's correct. However, what preceded this public debate was the fact that there were working groups in which all the interested groups were involved, so all the groups, we all really used the profession to help us prepare this law, and in this sense they all participated from tourist guides, from hotelers from travel agencies, so they all took part in making the proposal. In this sense, only the time of the debate was not so important in the sense that it made it impossible for the profession to participate in the preparation of the law itself because they had indeed participated before. In that sense, I hope that the profession itself will be satisfied. As far as the guide is concerned, once again, so the newspaper of this law that guides who are entitled to the basis of the European Directive and the basis of our legislation that adopted this directive in 2015, they have the right to temporarily and occasionally carry out the activities of tourist guides in Croatia. However, so far they have been able to do so at protected sites. Under the new law that is before you this proposal will not be possible unless they pass the same as the Croatian guides exams needed to guide such sites. Here, in that sense, we think it's a significant newspaper. Also persons from third countries will not be able to lead in Croatia unless they have a registered residence in Croatia. So that's where we went to meet, I really thank you for this question, and it concerns languages that don't learn as much in Croatia as languages from the Far East, say Chinese, Korean, etc. and in this sense we have come out in a way that there are people who are from these countries in Croatia because, of course, they are allowed to lead but have to pass the same exams as Croatian guides have to. Therefore, they have the same obligation to pass exams both for the general part and for protected sites. And in this way we have protected the profession because we think that guides are extremely important when we talk about tourism because it is certainly those who come first in contact with tourists and who in the best way interpret our cultural, historical and natural heritage. In that sense, we really consider them partners, and I believe that they will ultimately be satisfied with the solutions offered in this law. It was mentioned here that Mr. Grcic also spoke about human potentials, I hope that indeed the centres of competence that are foreseen by our strategy and which will be envisaged by the new law or amendments to the Law on Education, which will very soon come to the Croatian Parliament, that these centres of competence will in the best possible way answer the question of the staff in tourism and, of course, the resources that are at our disposal are enormous for the establishment of the Centre of Competence, and we believe that we will raise the general interests that are in tourism to a greater level precisely thanks to the centres for competences, and I believe that we will find support for all, not only in the Croatian Assembly, but also for the support of the whole profession, which is very interested, that as soon as the centre of competences can simply be established, so that we can start working and give concrete results. There have been more speeches about minimum conditions, I think that the suggestions even Mrs. Dark Taritash is on track, because we believe that some other laws already regulate the question of how much office space and general space is needed for the work of persons in certain institutions and, in that sense, the market only regulates. I'm convinced, Mr. Kleman, that if you're a consumer who wants to co-operate with some agency that runs certain programs on the market, touristically, that when you come to that agency, if you see that this is a messy space, that you'll turn around, you'll go to another agency where it's completely higher. So it is absolutely certain that we should take care not to drop the quality of service in travel agencies, but more will have to, because there is a large market and there is great competition on that market and in this sense we really don't need to overdo the thing, we try to make it easier for them. But we're going to think about this proposal of yours, that we have at least some minimum terms, whether it's through the rulebook or through something else, we're going to see it by the second reading, so we're going to have answers to those requirements anyway. Here's what's gonna happen to the objection. I think I have responded to those unknowns that were put into debate, thank you once again for the constructive proposals, and I hope that, given that the deadline for adopting this bill and the harmonisation with the Road Arrangements Directive, we will be adopted by 1.1.2018. I believe that by the beginning of the 12th month we will have a second reading and that we will be able to meet the requirements set before us by the directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59124	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Matusic. We have one replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here in your final address, you mentioned the centres of competence in tourism. And there's an absolute agreement between the key political factors. These centres of competence have entered the strategy of science, education and technology, as former assistant minister Kramaric, who is no longer in the ministry. In cooperation with our Education Ministry in 2015, they also entered operational programmes of competitiveness, cohesion and effective human potential. So, we're already at our disposal from... And what I ask you to do is to continue to put pressure on Mr. Kramarić at our Ministry of Education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Regardless of the law now, I think you need to be that trigger and push the Ministry of Education to really make some more concrete actions happen, so that we don't waste our resources. And you also mentioned yourself, not just you, but other speakers, we have a major problem with tourism personnel. Tourism is a key branch in our economy and on which it rests is actually a large part of the source of our country's income. And with that we have to go, that should be a priority. I know it's a priority to you, but I'm asking you to put pressure on the Ministry of Education, because without them, it just won't work. The time goes, the money stands, the 2020 perspective is by 2020. I'm afraid we won't be able to use everything we can. We've got a little more time, but make it faster, 'cause nothing's done in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59126	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. Replica response, dear colleague Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59127	Here is a short, no special pressure will be required, because here are the amendments to the law, coming before the Croatian Parliament, but it is agreed and the centres of competence will be established, we will use the funds, we have 315 million kuna in the SF and we will call the Ministry of Tourism. And this second part of the reconstruction, adaptation, upgrade, therefore, for this second part of the civic work, so that these centres are placed somewhere to be allocated, will be done by the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as for all other centres of competence, which are in five areas designed through strategies. As for the strategy itself, of course, as you said Mr Kramarić and the team that worked at the Ministry of Tourism at the time predicted, they would enter into strategies and operational programmes and competitiveness and cohesion and effective human potentials and I am sure that we will use these funds for the benefit of Croatian education, and in this case they would call for the benefit of Croatian tourism and all those who are employed in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59128	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague, Secretary of State Fran Matusic. This is what we've exhausted all the registered speakers for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism, Mr Frana Matušić. Assistant Minister, Ms. Monika Udovic, chief adviser to Minister of Tourism, Mrs. Barbara Mesic and the head of the tourism sector at the Ministry of Tourism, Ms. Senki Jajanin. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59129	Proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 209. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a Law on the provision of services in tourism and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant, to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 102 votes in favour and 22 abstentions have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59130	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Special Tax Act on Credit Institutions' Assets, first reading, P.Z. No.148 Proposes the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, on the basis of articles 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the relevant Committee on Finance and the state budget, the government delivered its opinion. I call on the proposing representative to give an additional explanation if he wishes, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59131	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before you today is the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Credit Institutions Assets, a lex specialist written from the beginning, by the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. The essence of this law in the shortest possible lines in one definition would be the next. This law provides for the introduction of a tax on credit institutions, primarily banks, on their total assets of 0.64%, meaning very modest, and would annually bring 2 billion 518 million kuna into the budget. And it is interesting to note right at the very beginning that such a small amount would yield such large revenues and we would really have to wonder how it is possible that foreign banks own 400 billion kunas, so just over 3 Croatian budgets and until today they have not been taxed. That's what I'm saying because there's bank taxation everywhere in Europe. So there's no state in Europe where banks don't tax one way or another, their walks, their personal profits. And there are also special bank property taxes in many countries in Europe. Among other things, such a tax exists in Poland where, unlike Croatia, 8 billion kuna is taken, so we predicted 2.5. The means to obtain this tax would be spent on the sole measure of demographic recovery and in the manner in which the Government would determine. So it is taken by banks or credit institutions and the funds are rerouted for demographic recovery. Which is why it is precisely for demographic renewal, because the issue of demographicism in Croatia is a crucial issue of our survival, survival as a people, survival as a state, and there is a consensus in public from the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia from the last head of the local administration that this issue must be resolved urgently in Croatia. The question of our children, the question of our future. And it is truly amazing that banks in all these years, in years of the most difficult crisis, when people literally dug through the trash and when 75% of Croatian citizens couldn't survive with their salary or with their pension, but had to pay their dues to cover the most basic existential needs, such as paying for directors, buying food or buying some clothing, that banks at the same time achieved abnormal profits, a huge profit from Croatia, which is the worst of all, and fed the fat geese administrations in foreign countries where they achieved billions and billions of kuna on the bloody work of our workers and in the severe torments of our citizens. Yes, Croatia represents a tax haven for banks. Here's the best country in Europe I can do business with. Here we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament that only on bank fees will they take citizens 4 billion kuna a year and the same fees they charge us, they do not charge in the countries where they come from. What kind of bank fraud they made with a Swiss franc where they transferred currency risk to citizens although the risk did not exist in practice because the banks never actually bought or had any Swiss francs. So the banks transferred risks to the citizens that they didn't even have. Just imagine that over a period of 6 years, during the most difficult recession, when Croatia's GDP sinks over 8%, that banks have earned 28 billion kunas. 28 billion. And we now when we come to the Parliament and when we come to the committees where we participated today, when we say just give 2.5 billion back to the citizens, then all together and especially the representatives of the banks, get up on their backs and say that law is not good. He has no purpose, and he has a very good purpose. First of all, it has a purpose because it finally invites someone in this society to solidarity. At the burden distribution. This solidarity in Croatian society is desperately missing. That financial burdens and life burdens are transferred in part with those who do not have those who have 1,000 lives and too many. And who are still earning profits today from which a man's head spins when you hear the number. Here's the bank every year in Croatia only 5 billion kuna profits come true. So this law would actually, at worst, take half of them and earn them a year. On the other hand, when these 2.5 billion kunas were transferred to demographic measures, many positive effects would be achieved on the economy itself. Among other things, bad credit would be reduced. Among other things, economic activity would increase amid increased consumption and banks could also place new loans. They keep saying it will reduce credit activity, no, these measures will increase credit activity. And these measures that we are proposing here today, they are in fact compensation for all the bad things that have happened in Croatia in the past 25 years, especially in the past 10 years. I would like to point out here today once again that the whole of Croatia is in agreement with the fact that we have a demographic disaster. So let's look at some numbers, see what we're up against today, what we're discussing here today. What are we discussing in front of six MPs? I know the citizens are watching, I'm actually talking to them too. Short summary. In 10 years, the number of students in Croatian schools decreased by 63,000. In Croatia this year we have 317000 students, and in 2007 we had 380,000. It's a 17% drop in primary schools. In 10 years Croatia lost 2521 classes with 25 students, and in the quarter of the century 9600 classes with 30 students. That number needs to be added to a huge number of evicted people who have graduated from school. Since 2011 alone, we have in Croatia 300 thousand evicted people. Every year in Croatia, 17,000 people die more than they are born. If anything changes Croatia will have less than 3 million inhabitants by 2031. If this trend continues in the optimistic scenario, Croatia will have about 3.2 million inhabitants. Croatia leaves hundreds of people every day. So every day we lose between 200 and 300 people. Here is the moment as I now speak the citizens leave Croatia every day. The scariest of all are citizens who are able to work. The Croatian citizens leaving are able to work. We now have a situation that the number of pensioners and employees is one pensioner of 1.16 employees, and in some counties especially in Slavonia the number of employees is lower than the number of employees, the number of employees is lower than the number of pensioners. And now, normally, there's a question of how we're going to be paying our pensions in the future if this trend continues in the coming years. Here's official statistics say that in Split every year 1100 years less starting in 1991. In 2011, Osijek had 108,000 inhabitants, and now there are 68,000. In 1991, Croatia had 4.6 million residents with a million 700 thousand employees and 655 thousand pensioners who received a 75% pension. Today, millions and 200 thousand are employed, pensioners millions and 100 and pensions are only 39% of employees' salaries. Do you know at the same time how many Croatians had blocked citizens in 1991? Zero. How many accomplished citizens did she have? Zero. How long was RH? Four billion dollars. How big is it today? 64 billion dollars. Who's to blame for this disaster? Who's responsible for that? If it wasn't those who ran this country and who got rich at all those events that had come since. And we repeat today to the Croatian people, because there is no representative, that this law intends to help Croatian children, and especially poor children, children who do not. And it's a terrible truth that's been published in analyses between the other and the Economic Institute that in Croatia, every fifth child is poor, that many children go to sleep hungry so that they can give their child a meal. That Croatia is at the rate of long-term poverty and the rate of child poverty since 2013 is at the very bottom of Europe. That a third of the parents in these families can't afford their children fresh fruit, that they can't afford a school trip, that they can't afford 50 kuna a week, that half the kids don't have a computer at home, that every fifth kid doesn't have his own bed. That parents have to borrow and what is very difficult, it is very difficult to borrow and it is very difficult to return. That they don't have the heat, and now it's winter. That people come to the dilemma whether they're going to pay for the director's or they're going to give food to the kids, that people have to buy computers and toys instead of saying listen, son, Dad paid for the electricity. And that's a terrible situation, it's the everyday life of our citizens that the HDZ and SDP gentlemen don't even want to listen to, but they ran off with their heads no matter what. Why? So because they're de facto bank employees, they work in their interest, they want them to keep making profits so that they, one little privileged elite, can throw crumbs of that cake. Look, in Zagreb, some of the largest buildings in Croatia were colleges, they were schools, they were museums, and today the largest buildings are bank management buildings, palaces on dozens of floors where people who pay their millions of bonuses from our country and don't care what children don't have for breakfast in the morning, nor can their parents pay for the school kitchen. Here, this is a picture of the situation in Croatian society. When it comes to poor children, when it comes to demographic restoration, when it comes to poverty and hunger, there are no Croatian MPs, these are your national representatives. And the banks, I repeat, each year take 5 billion profits, each bank takes 600 and a half 700 billion each for itself and 600 or 700 million. What could we do with that money, imagine? They could introduce a full child allowance, they could pay their children a free school snack, they could provide transportation to all students, even students, they could introduce a scholarship fund, they could introduce one-time benefits, whether they're maternity, whether they're at birth. We could buy drugs for sick kids, and we read in the papers every day that kids can't get drugs, that they're expensive. Here with these measures you just need to raise your hand all the children will get the necessary medicine. We could introduce bonuses for... , we could solve the question of preschool age, how many kids can't go to kindergarten at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first thing doesn't have enough space, the second thing when there's room parents can't pay for it and finance it. And what does our government suggest? Our government is proposing to us for a measure, you'll see it in the budget in a few days to take fees I don't know about parents, people, so that the parents' fee can be transferred as for children, something small. 100 kuna will receive, 100 kuna will receive parents of more children, child's allowance, spilling from hollow to empty. Let the 100 kuna take the Minister Maric and stick to his forehead like Zeljko Kerum that ham, that's his 100 kuna, and let him stop making the citizens of this country a fool, let him stop humiliating them. That's the message we want to send you today. I repeat, I have no one to send it to, so I'm not doing so much technical stuff as I'm talking about the very core of the problem. Therefore, this law, which is before us, offers a very concrete solution to the issue of demographic disasters in the Republic of Croatia. If we implement this law in Croatia, there will certainly be an increase in the number of people, the poverty rate will be reduced, the number of poor children will be reduced, the number of executions, the blockades, the raids will be reduced, the negative trends we have and what will be taken from banks will be reduced, they will in no way feel but in fact these same banks have long ago, they should have paid for what is now being taken away from them by this law. I am here for the end to remind you once again of that story about the recovery of banks, about the capitalisation of banks of the amount of billions that Croatian citizens have given to resuscitate banks, just for a resuscitation I don't know of the Bank of Dubrovnik, we gave thought to 5 or 6 billion kunas to have today that none of the banks except a few banks are owned by HPB, for example, and that today we would have that Croatia has become a colony in the hands of foreign interests and that it is even a question of whether any of the Croatian citizens who still have power, who still has health in the future want to live in our country. I believe you know very well that all your friends, all of your acquaintances, have thought more or less about leaving the Republic of Croatia. So, gentlemen, here's the solution, please support and let's finally take this issue off the agenda. And I believe that if this law is voted upon that it will be one of those historic days in the work of this Parliament that will be remembered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59132	I thank my colleague Branimir Bunjc for this explanation of the bill. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59133	Dear comrade Bunjac, I listened to your presentations, and at some point I thought the assembly was empty. And logically, I've come to the conclusion that those people who accuse the Living Wall of not having any concrete suggestions here today are gone. So they come here to the assembly, mud and insult, as a rule from the HDZ ranks and say what you suggest, what your solutions are, what you offer. However, when the debate on such an important legislative proposal, which puts more than 2 billion kunas into the budget, which proposes a law that already exists in many countries in the world, including the EU, is simply torture, silence, and the Silenzio press, they are not there. And I'm wondering, actually, Mr. Bunyan, who we're talking to here today, who we're talking to today. Why? So because the same one who has no tomorrow will speak to you, and what have you made of the Living Wall? What you gentlemen have suggested, what you have done, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59134	I thank my colleague Pernar for the replica. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59135	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. Here we are today witnessing such a culmination of hypocrisy in the Republic of Croatia. This is the highlight, the highlight of hypocrisy is that these are the same MPs who are not now full of demographic restoration. When it comes to Hanžekovic or someone else who organizes a round table, when you have to eat there at the house and drink, then they're all for demographic restoration, but when a law comes to the Parliament that solves the issue of demographic restoration, then they all run away, and you know why? All psychology textbooks show you an interesting fact, which is that people don't like to listen to the truth. They don't like to listen. The truth is very embarrassing to them. They want to hear about some insignificant subjects, about bizarreness, but the truth doesn't, I can't hear it. And that's why they're not here. They know very well that they will do nothing about demographic restoration and do not have the strength to face their own conscience. And the other reason why they're gone is because you're afraid. They're afraid of banks. They're afraid of banks because they depend on them. Because if banks get a bad opinion about them either as a foreigner or as individuals, then maybe they could lose some synocura, they're very afraid, they better lose 150 kunas for not coming to the assembly, let alone anything else. And that's the problem, that's the problem, and I'm glad that we've had this moment today that the masks have fallen and the table as in that story about the Strebor Forest when the daughter-in-law finally showed what language it has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59136	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59137	Well, here's a respected colleague of Bunjac, I had to get back to you because no one was afraid of any proposal, and you should also say in your proposal that this law included housing savings, which means that they would also pay taxes, and which, indirectly, all those encouraging measures would be adjudicated, it's very important. In addition, the proposal itself that the government proposes, which most of the countries that have so far had this type of law that you are proposing, actually proposes another model, which is taxing financial transactions between financial institutions which would be much better and smarter because it would not burden citizens when we know that in the property of banks we have property and credit to citizens, businesses etc., that's what you forgot to say. And I think you're more afraid because you're actually turning all your anger into banks because you're obviously the biggest or the biggest debtor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59138	I thank my colleague Peric for the replica. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59139	Thank you very much. Representative Peric, I must repeat to you an old Greek maximum. The ancient Greek speaker who instead of arguments began to use attacks ad hominem was considered defeated before he heard the answer. So in this whole story of your disgraceful escape from the Parliament when it comes to poor children, you've found me to attack at a personal level, the type of tell-tale, gossip and other Baban inventions. So, I'm sorry you got down to that level, and that just confirmed everything I said. Therefore, arguing with you further makes no sense. It would've been better if you'd stayed here, if you'd kept your mouth shut than if you'd gone into controversy with me like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59140	Dear comrade Bunjac, thank you for your reply. I ask that in your answers and in your discussions, you do not address your colleagues and colleagues in an inappropriate way to the parliamentary representatives and do not disrespect them as persons. Thank you very much. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Before the debate starts, I'm giving a 10 minute break, we'll continue at 21 and 10. Thank you very much. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.10 HOURS]] First, he applied for the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This legislative initiative is an initiative which was essentially supposed to be a normal regulation in the Republic of Croatia or the fact that banks not only tax property, but also at fees and fees of four billion kunas annually draw from Croatian citizens and natural and legal persons. The fact that it's huge money, the fact that that money goes to third countries, to countries where young people go, and these initiatives are good and the debates are good and we need to talk about it. We can see that the President of the Republic is also talking, because this is also the consequence of the demographic collapse of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia today has two-thirds of empty territory, literally empty and this is also a strategic problem and a problem that simply empty space does no good to anyone. We have something about Zagreb residents and opportunities for families to live around a few larger cities. This remains empty and that money would be taxed on the assets of banks which would be quite normal and natural, and that would not be anything that they've drawn up so far but we always blame banks, but it's the policies, policies that allowed banks to behave in the way in Croatia as they don't behave in their home countries, they don't behave because they don't have their agents in the political options of all governments. And therefore, I believe that this, personally, will support this living wall law. I hope that fellow parliamentary representatives on both left and right, because this should be discussed and the time for the Croatian National Bank to stop this monopoly of foreign banks not only to be their exchange office, but also for the time for the Croatian Bank to protect the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia because simply the amount of money they draw from the Croatian banks is huge. And because today, as I said, we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, we have no free textbooks, no free transportation, no health care. Now imagine only these four billion fees and commissions that can be done annually in Croatia in these areas where the demographic picture is in a catastrophic situation worse than during the Turkish Empire. There were more residents in these areas as all occupiers passed through Croatia from the east, occupiers from the west or any direction. Unfortunately, now that we have a free, independent Croatia, unfortunately we do not have a sovereign concept of governance in Croatia, Croatian politics, monetary policy, nor territorial policy, nor an economic belt. We have not protected telecommunications nor natural resources, nor concessions, nor water sources, nothing is protected. Therefore, I will uphold this law. I hope that the motion of the Living Wall and the SNAGA will go into the second reading and that in the second reading together we will find the best solution, and the solution to tax property is quite normal. That's what other countries use. So it's nothing now that's fallen from the sky, that someone's thought of something that hasn't already been applied in other legislation. And I think this proposal should go to another reading. I am sorry that there is no longer a fellow parliamentary representatives in this debate, because this debate makes sense regardless of what it wants to degrade, which in this late hours pushed this story, but the fact is that a Croatian policy which has nothing to do with contemporary politics, which is anti-soverevist, which favours banks that it is time to discuss these topics seriously, to take examples of other states and to take this money which is taxed to be used for the purpose of being listed in social measures, to demographic measures, to the extent of the survival of people in areas that are displaced. And I repeat what the two-thirds of Croatia tends to be empty. And in the end, I say once again, I will support this law and I hope that it will pass in another reading and that this law will be applied as soon as possible to the taxation of property. And not only that, that other measures will come, for those who have been rich are the time to return money to the people and the people to survive in these areas. Not that our kids are going to third countries where the banks that are pulling the money invest our money there. It's just that people don't have any money anymore, there's no opportunity, there's no pay to live in these places. If these steps are not taken, these steps that are in this legislative proposal, which, of course, need to be taken in the second reading and I don't see why HDZ wouldn't do this... in the second reading with its observations, of course any remark that is good that both the Living Wall and the Power will accept, there is no problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if refused in the first reading means that the intention of the Croatian government is not the interest of the people but of the banking lobbys and that the Croatian government is essentially an agent of foreign banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59143	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59144	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, you are right when you said this law applies in many European countries. And before we sent this law to the procedure, we contacted the parliaments of some states, saw what kind of laws they had, and we didn't actually invent anything special. Even in some countries, there is this same measure that we propose, which is that money from taxing banks is spent on demographic measures. Let's say you have the same law, you have in Poland. And now we in Croatia, I said we had 25 years ago a million 700 thousand employees, now we have about a million and 200 thousand. And you, when you turn down more government employees, means those people who don't work in the real sector, we actually have about 950,000 people who fill the budget. And the question arises is whether 950,000 people can pay salaries to government employees and whether they can pay their pensions. Until when? All serious analyses, international, independent studies, say Croatia must sink into a new recession without labour in the very near future, must sink into a new recession. Well, haven't we had enough cuts, haven't we had enough austerity measures, haven't we had enough right cuts, haven't we had enough blockages and the fact that we need to sink another recession without anyone in this country wanting to do anything concrete. And I'm really sorry that this government is acting like a cricket in that story about ants playing all summer, and then when winter comes, it suddenly wonders and says, "Look what I have to die now because I haven't thought about what's coming, and the ants will survive because they've been thinking about winter all summer." So it comes to us at the door of a new recession and we allow a working-age population in thousands and hundreds of thousands to leave the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59145	Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Bunjc. We have a reply to the replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59146	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bunjac, I agree with you that in these times, it is mentioned this morning that even a bank that does not respect the laws of your colleague from, you have, Mr. Alexic mentioned that they have received a "Golden Kuna", a bank that does not respect the law, which robs Croatian citizens, businessmen and which prevents the development or possible employment of these new jobs, they get "Golden Kuna", "Golden Kuna" because of the demographic breakdown of Croatian society. And here I would also agree with the President of the Republic at this point which says that the measures are urgent and this is one of the measures to tax those who essentially sucked money from Croatian citizens but with help, I must stress Croatian policies. If it hadn't been for the Croatian politicians sitting in this House, the banks wouldn't have done it, you mentioned yourself that the banks were privatised in the way they were privatised and when they were capitalized by billions, then they were bought by foreign owners for much less money, so that Croatia lost some of its sovereignty. And those stories that have been thrown away, these golden kunas that shed glory because people look at it, they think the story is different. However, the truth is, Croatia is two-thirds empty. This morning I mentioned a case of a blue Dalmatian woman, a factory in the area where workers have claims in the bankruptcy of 10 million kunas, workers who have worked bloody for the machines since 2009, and they've been waiting for that salary, they can't get it because they're not in bankruptcy order, in which order, first of all, these, they're not going to have to get that money, simple state, local self-government, insurance, banks, they're all in front of workers. And work doesn't even pay. And of course where these people, where these workers, will have to go to third countries no matter what they are at a high age of years they will also have to go, fight for bread in third countries. That's embarrassing and sad. And these initiatives are initiatives that need to be discussed and should be supported, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59147	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59148	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm in front of an empty booth. Right in front of me, I mean. In the assembly there are eight of us in total of HDZ 4, from the SDP believed or did not have a living soul. The debate is about a proposal that provides for social justice, a proposal that makes things fairer, let's say so. Our country complains constantly that there is no money, here is Prime Minister Plenkovic constantly inventing which new imposition to strike, as well as Minister Maric. And they wanted to introduce a real estate tax. But we stopped them from doing it, the prime minister quit, but we didn't tell him now, friend, get on with it, do what you want. No, we told him, Mr. Plenkovic, this, the real estate tax, is where we stopped you. But we have another even better solution for you, it's called bank property tax, a tax that will be taken annually only by a negligible part of an active bank, and imagine what percentage, 0.6%. Well, it's not some wild, big money. And with that 0.7, something like that, we take 2 billion kuna into the budget, and with 2 billion kuna, we can finance, so we encourage demographic recovery. However, unfortunately, HDZ will refuse, HDZ is not interested in concrete solutions, HDZ serves with that Goebbels, repeat the lie as many times as possible, or repeat it until it becomes true. So every time, from the ranks of the HZD we hear that the Living Wall has no concrete solutions, that we don't make legal proposals, that we offer nothing concrete, that we are destructive, etc. However, when from week to week, our new law comes on the agenda, in the debate, simply the HDZs are gone, HDZs refuse, etc. I'd like to say one more thing. I've spoken to the Parliament many times. But rarely when I attack, MPs because they're gone are fellow Members, rarely when, however, our citizens following the assembly can often see that it's empty. But please, those MPs, who are not there, who do not listen when the law is proposed, so that when they fall from Mars, as they say from heaven, and into ribs in the assembly, they will no longer be accused. If they didn't say anything, when it came up, no matter what you did in the Living Wall, you didn't delay anything, I didn't see any suggestions from you, etc. Why? Well, of course you didn't see or hear when you weren't here. Of course. Well, then I wouldn't see or hear the Bull say that if I wasn't here right now and I wasn't looking at him and I wasn't listening. And then imagine, I come to the assembly every criminal year, and then I say, "What are you Bulls, what have you never answered for a word?" A man comes forward 1,000 times for a word. That's the way HDZ behaves when it comes to our legal proposals. So those who accuse us and attack us, arrest us, don't come to the sessions, then talk. He says, the other day, Plenkovic says to his colleague Sincic, like, like, where you came from, you're on your own. While his colleague Bunjac was a volunteer on the front line, the diameter had anemia, avoided. And then he says I don't know you. Well, of course I don't know him, of course, when they had another life trip. Someone lived in Croatia's reality, someone spent years in Brussels on a high salary, separated from Croatian reality. So I'm asking the HDZ members to start coming to the sessions, to start following the legal proposals that the Living Wall proposes, to support them. Or if they don't already support them not to say they weren't there. Just say, my fellow living wallmates, we disagree with your solutions. Don't lie about them being gone. You know there are, we know I have them. The public hears and sees that we're discussing the law we're proposing. Well, then don't be so hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59149	I thank my colleague Pernar. Replica, dear fellow Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59150	Thank you, well-respected representative Pernar, you see it's interesting here you said that there are eight MPs, with the vice president being required to be on official duty. And when I was talking, there was a live feed on the Live Wall page, and there were 1,000 people watching, and seven Assembly halls were a lot while I was talking. I felt them with my heart, I didn't see them, but I knew they were there and it shows statistics. There were 300 comments. Open the gentlemen from the HDZ page of the Living Wall, read the comments, of 300 comments, none of them are in your favor. And then you'll wonder why your diameter is the most hated man in the country. Here's why. Because he doesn't care about the lives of Croatian citizens. And what Mr. Bull said, yes, here, I can tell you the same thing, let's say at the time of the first St. The war, even at a time of such a great war, was not a hungry Croatian citizen, but a humanitarian aid gathered in Croatia, you will not believe even for Germany at the time of the war. In Croatia, they collected humanitarian aid and sent it to the Germans. So Croatia has every prerequisite, to feed its citizens and to provide them with everything they need. And n is likely to have 20% of hungry children and 20% of poor citizens today. Only Erste Bank brings out 400 million kuna per year from Croatia, 400 million kuna to invest in Croatian schools, all children, not the poor. All the kids from first to last, they'd have a free school meal. Well, are we aware that we're giving to others while our children are watching? What kind of people are we? And in particular, what kind of politicians are we? So we must represent the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59151	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. Here's a reply from my colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59152	Comrade Bunjac, here's a concrete thing and a shocking thought, if you buy this phone for 2,000 kuna and sell it for 4, you to 2,000 kuna, you have to pay the VAT. However, if you give credit to someone from 2000 and through interest, charge 3, you don't have to pay any VAT on those 1,000 kunas. If you give a 100000-euro loan and you get back 300,000 euros, because you have taken out the citizens on a long deadline, the bank's kuna in Croatia does not have to pay. Are you aware of what that means? This means that banks are tax-amnesty, that Croatia is a tax oasis and el dorado for foreign banks. That's what Mr. Bunzac means. And now what are you doing? I guess banks make more than half of what the country actually does, not likely, and they pay minimum taxes on it, and you come along with me, my colleague Alexic, also with us, we come into the law, say let's fix that injustice a little bit let's get them how many colleagues let's take 0.6% of the assets from those two billion kunas, let's encourage demography let's go into concrete projects of things to invest. Here you are told for 400 million kuna that is the profit of one bank, all children in Croatia can have a free meal whether poor or not. But this country says no, we won't. The bank will remain, and the people will still have to dig through the garbage. This is social justice in the HDZ way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59153	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59154	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think I've spoken to a less representative before now, but there's a positive side of it, a woman's quota is almost fulfilled, almost 40% of women are men, but it's still not enough. I wish one day it would happen to be at least 40% of women, and you'd be happier if there were more of them than men. Women are better than men anyway, but good isn't this topic here right now. So why aren't there people in the assembly today? Because the promoter is a living wall. My colleagues from the Living Wall simply don't worship you for your right and left because you're populists, but I must say that you're positive populists. Why? Because your populism has helped the Croatian Parliament become an interesting place. In fact, thanks to your come-on I will say outposts, Croatian citizens have begun to follow the work of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I think that never before the entry of the Living Wall into the Croatian Parliament, the Parliament was so monitored, I'm almost sure it was. So that role of yours is very positive. There is a negative populist role, and this negative populist role is mostly played by large parties. What's the negative populist role? That when they go on a pre-election campaign, they promise everything, and what they promise doesn't come true, and that's that negative pulsism. We have positive and negative. Okay, I tried to explain why the assembly was empty. I also don't come to the assembly when it's a debate about some of the things that I'm parties to that I can't really say anything about and where I can't contribute to my own discussion, and at the same time I can't even learn anything. So I don't come to these sessions either. I'll be somewhere below the assembly room, but it's all normal. But today, however, there are too few people in relation to what the bill is about because this bill is not a big deal. And it is a pity that Croatia has not introduced the bank's property tax before, because these same banks today took Croatian citizens with illegal interest rates, and the same Croatian banks in foreign ownership have launched arbitration in Washington where they want to excavate from Croatia, I don't even know how many billions of kunas, and in that time, I have to repeat these banks continue to take Croatian citizens, and so far they have been robbed in the last 15 years of illegal interest increases ranging from 5 to 10 billion kuna. Those amounts I can't know exactly because I just don't have that data. But some estimate of mine says the banks took illegal Croatian citizens 5 to 10 billion kunas. And that's illegal evidence is the verdict in the Franciscan collective case where it's not the currency that's been convicted, but it's the interest that's been decided. So banks had profits from 2005 to 2014, 40 billion kuna gross, out of which ZABA 13, PBZ 10.5 billion are the strongest banks, all 40 billion kuna gross in 10 years. Then she came in 2015 when banks had a minus of over 4.5 billion kuna due to the conversion of CHF loans. That minus happened because of the cost of conversion. However, after the conversion passed already in 2016, banks have net profits of 5.1 billion kuna. Imagine you in a country that has just begun to emerge from the crisis, which has just begun to emerge from the recession in the right way at the time of the biggest GDP decline at the time of the recession, banks are making enormous profits. Why do they make so much money? Because they're allowed. The tax on property had previously been introduced would have reduced their profits for that tax and somehow would have eliminated that enormous profit which is not justified, especially in that part of which was unfounded profit, and not founded all that was illegally taken away from the citizens. At this point, around this moment, the bank holds 274 billion kuna deposits from Croatian citizens and at the same time placed 255 billion kuna credits. What are the banks doing? Banks spin money, they get money from Croatian citizens and then that money gardens, fertilize, lend credit, invest in funds, through derivative business with mothers' banks, through expenses, so banks earn enormous profits only on products that are essentially abstract, it's neither car nor house, nor it's some material value, but it's simply an abstract business that's called spinning money. Banks working in the Republic of Croatia don't take out loans to place loans on us. They pay Croatian money and pay us all credits from Croatian money. And since they have so much enormous profit, wouldn't it make sense that one tax that isn't so big here is 0.64%, exactly a colleague Pernar, is not 0.6 or 0.7, but 0.64% suggested to be that tax, so why not take it a little bit more and still make them a very, very good profit in the Republic of Croatia. The tax is not new, the tax had countries called Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, the UK, all of those countries had or still have bank property taxes. And nothing happened to the banks because of that. They didn't fail. They had a little bit of a profit. So, except that we haven't introduced property taxes to them so far, in fact, at the beginning of this year as well as all other entrepreneurs, as well as all other corporations, smaller or larger, the banks have been reduced in profit taxes. By 31 December 2016, the profit tax was 20% and from 1 January 2017 the profit tax was 18%. So we've increased their profits by 10% to banks by cutting profit taxes. So how long shall we be Eldorado to them? How long will we give them a hand and a hat, how long will we serve foreign capital? Because that foreign capital didn't actually invest anything, it actually spins our capital to fertilize itself. And through derivatives, the mothers' banks have earned about 7 billion kuna in the last 7 years due to the CHF currency clause. Not 7 but even 10 years and more. So about 7 billion kunas have earned through the derivative business of a bank of a mother without a single drop of tax. Derivative jobs are a very interesting accounting method where the same amount of money is always exchanged in the short term and the same amount of money is always returned to each other, and this new one is not actually going anywhere, but is merely accountingly shown as if someone had given someone a euro, someone a Swiss and exchange rate difference in the case of Swiss growth, paying debtors in CHF loans. And those debtors in the CHF loans paid for it until the conversion of CHF loans was made. So, in principle, although domestic banks have a loss or a cost of conversion of some 7.5 billion kuna, the cost is not, in fact, because the mothers' banks have already earned it. So they're zero about it. And besides, at that expense, the bank got a tax relief. So on tax relief, banks in the Republic of Croatia received about a billion and a half kuna in 2016. So much less paid taxes. So it's really sad that there are no MPs here who can talk about it because the topic is interesting, and no matter what the law is going to be rejected, that's for sure, you could at least talk about it. And it's a shame that at a time when banks in Washington are so rudely performing through arbitration, we're not able to introduce a property tax, so at least make sure that they're keeping track of what they're doing to us, and they're doing us completely unfounded. Because arbitration is not in line with EU law, the EU Commission has also said, the EU court said, and the ongoing process in the collective case, Franak, has not yet ended. The process is currently in the Visko Commercial Court, returned from the Supreme Court to the High Court of Commerce and is not excluded that the High Court will eventually confirm Judge Radovan Dobrinić's verdict. If the verdict is confirmed, banks will have to incriminate some 10 billion kunas for CHF debtors. I can't wait for that to happen. Some citizens have committed misdemeanor proceedings against banks, I am one of them, I have initiated a misdemeanor procedure against Adikko Bank and Adikko Bank has been punished with 90,000 kuna fines for not agreeing a margin with me. I got another conviction from another debtor where Adikko Bank was fined with 100 thousand criminal penalties and a responsible person at Adikko Bank 20 thousand kuna. So, if the verdict I received at the first degree of the criminal court becomes final, based on my indictment proposal, the bank will pay 90 grand in the state budget. Unfortunately, the Croatian State Attorney's Office did not initiate a general procedure against banks although the infringement procedure was initiated as regards Franak's association was proposed but the DORH has no power to fight banks but therefore has the power to fight Agrokor. The bank case may weigh some 10 to 15 billion kunas as far as citizens are concerned and some nine billion kunas of criminal penalties. Therefore, banks are liable to Croatian citizens for illegal interest and for the CHF clause and another 10 to 15 billion kuna, and if all citizens had initiated infringements that were damaged by illegal interest rate changes or illegal margins in the state budget, another 9 billion kuna would have been included. Since these nine billion kunas will not be included then it would be the turn to introduce this property tax in such a way that what could have been paid into the state budget is omitted. Anyway, I'll be sure of this law even though I'm aware that he won't get the green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59155	I thank my colleague Alexic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59156	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alexic, it's nice to remind you of the story of Iceland, where the people stood up, surrounded Parliament and did not want to go so long as the leading bankers did not end up in prison where they belong. That's why Iceland thrives today, unlike Croatia. However, I would like to look back on some of the other things you said, which is that there is therefore a powerful verdict that banks have been illegally taking people overpaid interest. And that powerful verdict is not carried out, so even when it's quite white that a crime has been committed, and when the rule of law has said even that the government can't charge for it, let alone charge for something else. So your law on Friday is like something different from our law. He won't! And we see that not only as you said yourself, the government is unable to introduce a tax, but it gives banks more tax relief. So it gives them even more benefits than they have. And their mouths are full of demographic restoration. And interestingly this law, we're actually giving money to them, to the government to fill the budget, to make them available to them, to determine which demographic measures they're going to take, but they're not interested, they're not interested. They're just keeping the status quo, so as long as it goes, the main thing is that we're in our chairs. It will be good for us, and how it is for Croatian citizens and what injustice in society is less important, it is one extreme irresponsibility for which I would dare say allow me a heavy Balkan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59157	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. Answer, colleague Alexic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59158	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, we are not Icelandic. The Icelandics are a very self-aware people who fight for their rights. We are able to fight for our rights only in the war and only if we are led by a charismatic leader, because we simply don't think for ourselves, but we always need some goat leader, a bull leader to go after him and we're not able to fight for our rights. The evidence is also this powerful verdict in a specific Frank case, where over a hundred thousand people have the possibility of judicially obtaining their overpaid interest. However, there are currently only 3,000 processes in the courts because people are afraid because they are unconscious. Especially those people who have kuna loans and euro loans who are not even aware that their banks have stolen five billion kunas of overpaid interest due to an illegal increase in interest rates. So we're simply not able to fight for our rights. The collective verdict is very clear. She says banks have been misbehaved and they must no longer continue to act that way. However, they continue to behave, and the government of the Republic of Croatia has done nothing to prevent this, and has the power to prevent them from doing so. The Croatian Parliament also did nothing in this regard, because it rejected the first law I proposed, and it could have accepted despite the government’s rejection and at least allowed it to enter the second reading and to try something between the two readings. But I hope that something in the heads of MPs who don't understand the size of a bank robbery may shed some light on this law on Friday, because the law is even more important than the first one because the law that will be discussed on Friday cannot be resolved by the judicial means but solely by legislation. The courts are not arbiters and they must not determine the parameters of interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59159	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59160	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Goebbels has said in his time that if a lie repeats enough times that it eventually becomes true, that is, people accept it as the truth. So in this Croatia lie is repeated many times, a lie that the Living Wall has no concrete suggestions, a lie that the Living Wall has done nothing, a lie that lives wall just talks, etc. But today, in these small hours, we propose a bill taxing the property of banks, a bill that would only be taxed by 0.6% on their assets, 0.6% on which the state would receive 2 billion kuna per year. I need to explain why this tax. One reason is that banks don't pay VAT. It means when a bank gives a 100 thousand-euro loan and you pay back 200 grand, the bank on those 100 grand it earned through interest, that is to say, the additional value is not paid by any VAT. It's a crazy situation. So, in general, religious institutions are free of VAT. For example, the Catholic Church does not pay VAT. I can understand that even though it's about the more powerful rich, but let's do it. However, banks have no religious or humanitarian role in our society. I don't see why we should be free of VAT. On the other hand, their profit tax has been reduced from 20 to 18% since 1.1 this year. So they're paying less and less taxes, and at the same time Plenkovic says we're introducing a real estate tax. What kind of real estate tax, man? Why? The goal is to hit 99% of the citizens. That's what his policy is all about. And the Living Wall offered an alternative specifically through this Bank Property Tax Act. However, this same HDZ that is attacking us that we are populists, demagogues, that we have no solution, that we are just talking today about these HDZs who are accusing us of it in the Parliament. And I'm honestly wondering, honestly, if the next time there's a congressional debate some HDZ zombie gets up from his chair and starts talking you from the Living Wall don't have any legal proposals or solutions, you don't offer anything, you're anarchists, etc. And I am asking myself today openly and honestly how many laws do we in the Living Wall have to propose that our HDZ colleagues stop accusing us of that? It's not a problem. Next week, I'll hand over one law to the legal procedure. It is that if you are the father of a child on paper, or you are married to a woman and you are divorced after 7 years, or after the child is 7 years old, even if you prove that you are not the father of a child, you must pay for the child's alimony. Why? Ha, because fatherhood can only be challenged by a father until the child's age of seven. This illogicality, for example, in many American states can be challenged as long as human beings, or as long as the child is alive, and can only be challenged in most countries for up to 18 years, with us for up to 7 years. And I'm going to give this particular bill of law that a man who wasn't the father of a child, who was deceived, who didn't know he didn't have to pay child support that wasn't his. But I know it will, i.e. I'm guessing there's going to be another voter by the HDZ. And I don't understand why he constantly invites us to give laws, make concrete suggestions, and then, as on the conveyor belt, they reject everything. It's not going to my head. I'm sorry they have such a hard heart and I'm sorry most for them because they repeat lies. And the lie, the one who lives by the lie, the one who repeats the lie, ultimately believes in the lie himself, lives the life of the lie, and dies. And in Revelation, the last book of the Holy Scriptures says that no liar shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. That is why I call on all HDZ members who say that the Living Wall has no concrete legal proposals to go to the Internet Parliament, to look at our Club of Representatives, to see how many legal proposals we have made, to realize that they have all these proposals of the law and amendments refused and that ultimately, I am saying they accept the obvious truth. Thank you. And that's that we're constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59161	I thank my colleague Pernar. We have one replica. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59162	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So here we go for a moment thinking with a healthy logic. I give Mr. Millian Brkic or I don't know the representatives of Roscic and the representatives of Juricev, I give them 2.5 billion kunas in their hands, I give them this law. And I'm saying, here's gentlemen 2.5 billion, share the children in a way that you think is good, no, I don't make this a condition. I'm not saying you have to give for food, here's a diaper, anyway, give it for kindergarten. And I give them the money in their hands, the living wall gives them as its proposal of the law, and they're dead cold, and they don't blink. They don't want it, they don't want it. I don't understand that. Well, I thought if I told them, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna give you two-and-a-half thousand kunas that you're gonna take, let alone two-and-a-half billion. On the other hand, they go to some round table of the morning list and Hanžeković and say Croatia is in a demographic disaster of 4.5 million we will fall to 3 million, citizens will be on average over 50 years old, no more children, no more school, no house yawns empty, villages, cities, emigration, full mouth and topic. And it's a good thing we had this debate if nothing else that now, every time they talk about demographic restoration, we'll be able to put this law under their nose and ask them where you were when we discussed demographics. You were gone, you were gone. And you and I, Mr. Pernar and all the other MPs are always here when their laws are being discussed because that's our job. And as a politician and as a human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59163	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59164	Comrade Bunjac, you said, gentlemen of the HDZ, Mrs. Dragica Roscic, here I am looking at you, we are giving you this proposal to amend the law, we are giving you 2.5 billion kuna. Here, Mrs. Rostice, we're not saying you're doing with that money what we tell you to do. No, you just do what you told your voters. You've had 1,000 euros in your program for every newborn child. Here's what you're saying. There's no money for it. Here's a colleague of Bunjac who gave you a legal proposal. He's giving you 2.5 billion kunas in your hands. You said you'd give HDZ to mothers 3 and more children the status of the mother's foster mother. You didn't give them that. Oh, my God, you said there was no money. Here we give you that money. But what is it? The question here is not whether there is money or no money, it is not whether children should be given or not, but whether they should be touched by assets, capital, foreign financial institutions, credit, foreign banks that rob and exploit our children. That's the question. And to that question, you HDZ say the following answer. We don't care if there's a tax on bank assets in other countries. It will simply not be introduced in Croatia. And why it will not be introduced because the Croatian state, or those representing it, is not protecting and defending the interests of the Croatian people, but foreign credit institutions. Why? Because the government is governed by them, the government is a puppet and this Parliament is a sad circus and in fact a gruesome display of the real mental state in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59165	I would like to thank Mr. Pernar, please, Mr. Pernar, for sticking to the general rules of conduct that you do not wrongly title the Croatian Parliament because you are part of the Croatian Parliament, and I do not think you are chosen to do the circus but to represent the Croatian citizens who gave you the vote. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59166	I'd like to thank the president, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law of the Living Wall, the Living Wall Club, the SNAG in the Croatian Assembly, means that it refers to the tax on the property of credit institutions and, of course, when we simplify it all like this and we tell people two billion kunas, they will be used for demographic restoration, it doesn't sound bad to anyone. But where are we gonna get that money? How are we gonna get them? We will take them from the economy and by taking such money they will just gather citizens with a basic service or capital in the Republic of Croatia. This law does not have an impact analysis in the proposal and even those successful banks, those that are good to our citizens, are being punished. The easiest thing to say is that there were all kinds of banks and how they worked was best shown after the crisis, but the easiest thing to do is to say that all banks are bad, that we have to punish everyone, that they are the bogeymen we need to take money from, and you forget on the other hand that they are the drivers of economic activity in the Republic and put everything in the same basket. In front of the club, I represent a series of laws that are just making the difference between those banks that provide the necessary capital for the development of the economy, which give the necessary capital to resolve the housing and other issues of our citizens, but also according to these laws I must have a negative view and stress that the HDZ club will refuse to support this law. What else is going on with this law? Like him. Taxes banks in case they had a loss, is very negative for small and weak credit institutions, and the fact is that this law would be used to collect credit ratings. The proposal for this law is no news, and as you yourself have said, it has applied in some other countries such as Germany, France, Italy, Austria, but all of them have found that it has its own negativity, and our economy cannot bear the negative sides that would come through this law. And I think that we need to be a step forward, learn from the negative things that other countries have implemented, and precisely at EU level and Directives or the adoption of a directive that would make it easier to tax banks, but in such a way as to really secure resources in the country's budget, without disrupting or costing credit placements, in a way that is justly taxing banks in a way that will not harm our citizens and our economy. And not just banks, but all financial institutions, and that's the key. And the proposal is to tax those financial transactions that will not apply to those lines that will collect loans for citizens and entrepreneurs. And I pray that it is not debated whether you saw the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am not here to defend the Government but to defend the citizens and our entrepreneurs. So I repeat this proposal once again, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59167	I thank my colleague, Dear Roscic. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59168	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rosčić. Here you are, I suppose, as the youngest representative of the HDZ, has been burdened to respond to this bill on behalf of the club. I don't really have much to replicate to you except that we heard one short alibi of 120 seconds that was expected. You have now found some technical things in the law of such a, something you have heard from the banking association itself, something you have heard from the HGK, you have now quickly concluded in a few sentences and it will serve you as an excuse to reject this law, because you are allegedly caring for entrepreneurs, for businessmen. And here's what Mr. Alexic told you, so the banks are suing the Republic of Croatia, so whether you need even more humiliation to be sued by banks in Washington and that you continue to treat them in such a humble way, to grant them all their wishes, to continue not to address the issue of demographic renewal, the question of hungry children. It is a very simple question for you, MP Roscic. This question that we asked today in the assembly is extremely simple, yes, do you choose the profits of banks or the interests of Croatian citizens? What do you choose? He can't do both. Either one or the other. Here I have chosen, and the representatives of the Living Wall have chosen. We chose demographic measures, we chose poor children. You chose credit institutions. to everyone on his conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59169	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Answer from my colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59170	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you have the right to deliver your opinion and your judgment, but of course your court is finally brought by our citizens and entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, one good part of them is damaged by the activities of banks that are not what they should be, but most of our citizens are not naive and will not simply be fooled by the simple solutions you offer as seen in terms of power in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59171	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic, for her reply to the replica. Final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59172	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, in the end, I must say, this country is not poor. Croatia is not a poor country. We have all the resources to be a rich country, we have infrastructure, we have land, we have water, we have sea, we have climate, we have smart people who have been there for 1300 years, and there's no need for anyone in this country to be poor and at least to be poor children. I repeat, once again in 1991, there were no executions, there were no blocks, there were three times more employees than pensioners, ten times fewer debts apparently some social disturbance happened. And what's worst of all that social disorder didn't happen during the Homeland War, it happened since 2007, right here. And that's why the Living Wall came into existence, why there were third options, because it wasn't the living wall alone. There are others. And why are they growing up? Because problems need to be solved. Because no one's going against themselves. Anyone who sees that he can't live, that his children are hungry, that I don't know about school trips, that some normal activities will rise. And that rebellion is natural. Therefore, it is our opinion that banks in Croatia, with the support of politics, did not have a fair practice, that they looked exclusively at their own interests, that they were driven by inconspicuous greed, that they simply consciously followed the destruction of human lives and that the time had come for things to return to normal. And they'll come back no matter what you do, this law will be rejected and no matter what banks continue to act as they did. The day will come when they will be told enough. Iceland is just one of the bright examples in modern history when citizens have said enough. And here he'll say a lot. And you can hope that day won't come, but he's coming unwittingly. Such are your simple historical processes. You can do whatever you want, but you won't do it as long as you want. Much bigger politicians, much stronger structures fell when the people said enough, so so will yours. You will certainly be able to look at it with your own eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59173	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for this finished word on behalf of the promoter. We've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives of the promoters Mr. Bunjec and Mr. Pernar. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue work tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Family Agricultural Economy, first reading, P.Z. No. 213. And I thank you for the rest of the evening. Session adjourned at 22.10 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-15-0.u59174	Proposal for a law on special tax on the property of credit institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 148. The promoter is the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on special tax on the property of credit institutions is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 77 votes for, 2 abstentions and 46 against, most votes have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. With this, we've exhausted the debate after the break, so let's move on to the agenda now. It's first. - Proposal for a law on family farming, first reading, P.Z. No. 213. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture is a respected Tugomir Majdak. Here you go.
