ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25228	Good morning, here we are going to start working, I can see the raised hands, the usual press conference will therefore be held as well. The first was to raise the hand of the distinguished representative Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25229	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, let's change Croatia and ask for a 10 minute break to ask the public on behalf of the public whether the process of the extraordinary administration in Agrokor is run by the Croatian Government or foreign government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25230	Okay, thank you. The next, distinguished representative Tulio Demetlika raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to make an appeal about the danger of polluting the source of drinking water in the Istrian County and that is exactly what matches the agenda point, and I am glad that there are representatives of the ministry to hear and they are the first to hear about the problem of drinking water pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25232	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25233	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss a tragic event on Wednesday when Mr. Marian Budden committed suicide during a secession in the Sesvedi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25234	Thank you. Next up he raised his hand to a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25235	Thank you very much. We are looking for a break of 10 minutes, also on the topic of Agrokor similar to what Mr. Lovrinovic asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25236	Thank you. The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja is next up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25237	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, I'm requesting a 10-minute recess to discuss citizens' reactions to the announced introduction of so-called. National pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25238	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm also looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the problem in Agrokor, around Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25240	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25241	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on concessions awarded to the Golden War concessions on the island of Brac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25242	Thank you. Anyone else longing to talk about it? There isn't. Then thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45. It's 9:35 p.m. CONTINUED AFTER 9:45 A.M. Here's the break time, so I'll ask the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović to say what he intended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I asked for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia to ask the Government on behalf of the public who actually manages the state of emergency in Agrokor, whether the Croatian Government or foreign government. This prompted a meeting in Belgrade a few days ago where four ministers from Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, came to discuss what is happening in Agrokor, how to save parts of Agrokor. But I'm stressing without a single representative from Croatia. Of course, everyone has a right to debate. I'm not questioning such an initiative at all. However, it is a big slap on Croatia's foreign policy and the Croatian government. After the vote, the Croatian government should have called on the ministers from these countries, introduced them to the law, the situation in Agrokor and the intentions it has and the measures, so according to related societies, branches located in the countries mentioned. None of it was done. It is shown that Croatian foreign policy is back in defensiveism and that it is just sad to see it. It's unacceptable for a country. All that is said afterwards is said later and simply there must be someone to answer. The question of who wrote the famous lex Agrokor again arises from what I said. If what we read in Tisk is true and yesterday the SDP club asked for a break, that it was written by a law firm that is the chief consultant of a Russian bank, then today from the party, we change Croatia much more clearly and we have the satisfaction that we did not support that law because we said it was not transparent, that we do not know who wrote it, that it is missing and who knows what will continue to emerge behind it whose interests are being defended. From this point on, I invite you all MPs not to let any more law come here in the process without writing down who suggested it. This party, that party, this law firm, that law firm, these law professors, or they. But please don't let any more laws be passed here that we don't know who suggested it. So if he wrote it right, we'll clap. If it's a bad law, then we know who's responsible for it. But now the situation is what it is, the law is passed and what's happening now. Now it's happening to see that the primary task of this law is to protect the banks and that will be shown in the coming days. The Agrokora system has received only 80m euros, imagine the euro for the settlement of domestic suppliers. In euro, they have granted a loan of 5% interest, with 5% interest on respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens who follow us. You can't cure a patient like this because this therapy kills him even more with 5%. So that's why I'm warning again, like 15 years ago, that the CNB is a bigger problem than Agrokor. She's one of the best men who and this big system who didn't think they'd hook him up, who put him together so I could say at high interest rates. Because that institution called the CNB is in charge of interest policy, not my grandmother or my neighbor. I'm sorry to make such a small joke, but everything else is too serious. That's the key role of the CNB. And that is why I believe and offer on behalf of the party Let's change Croatia's assistance to the Croatian government and the prime minister from this place. We have a proposal for a solution. Without the help of the CNB, it will not be possible to save the most important parts of Agrors that are nationally important, and I am not talking about owners, individual interests, but I am talking about general interest, workers, suppliers. We have a solution. This is where state decisions must be withdrawn. If we don't do this, remember from this place that the main role will be played again by the banks, and small suppliers and Croatian citizens will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25245	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, the next member will speak for Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25246	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I asked for a break on behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka Lists to discuss a problem they face in the city of Pazin. If nothing is done soon, it could affect much of Istria's county, so Mr. Vice President, I'm just using the right of the Rules of Procedure and it is not my intention to hold a press conference or for the media, but rather to invite the competent ministry to take over and act effectively to take care of this problem. So it's an inadequately stored hazardous waste company Eco-operation from Split, which has been bankrupt for a long time and has been inactive in the industrial zone of Pazin as in the town of Pazin. That company started its activity in the city of Pazina in 2007 on the basis of a permit for the operation of hazardous waste management. The State Authority responsible for issuing the relevant authorisations is the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and the authorisations issued by Ecooperation expired on 25 November 2016. The warehouse in which the company was operating is located in the third sanitary zone of the drinking water spring and close to another sanitary protection zone. I note that the spatially planned documentation of Istria County and the town of Pazin in that area was not given the possibility to build or use business buildings for waste management activities, especially for storage of hazardous waste. The water that sinks into the Pozinčice Pozinčice's abyss later springs at water springs using the water systems of the city of Pula and the entire southern Istria. Since the start of the operation of Ecooperation in the Pazinka industrial zone, the town of Pazin has warned the then Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction for the sensitivity of the area in which the storage of hazardous waste is located. Inconsistency of the activity concerned with spatial planning documentation and decision on sanitary protection zones of drinking water in Istria County and the necessity of eviction of the company's activities from that location. The city of Pazin has requested the service of environmental protection inspection to provide urgent data on the quantities, types, stability and potential risk of waste stored in the Pazink business zone as well as to continue to take official actions necessary to ensure the safe disposal of waste. Although foreign environmental protection inspection services have indeed confirmed that they have been carried out and that official operations will continue to be carried out with the aim of adequate disposal of hazardous waste and storage facilities for Ecocooperation to the city of Pazin, the requested data have not been supplied. In the meantime, at the beginning of October 2016, the representatives of the town of Pazin met in writing through the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature with that problem and requested a meeting with the representatives of the ministry and all in order to speed up the process of safe disposal of the waste concerned. Following a request for access to information, a letter was submitted to the city of Pazin which it was mentioned in an important way. In the waste warehouse at the location of the business zone of Pazinka in Pazin, cca is stored. 400 tons of harmless waste and about 400 tons of hazardous waste. It is also stated that criminal and criminal charges have been brought against the company because the person authorised to represent the company has not accessed inspection supervision and due to suspicion of criminal liability due to environmental hazards by waste. The competent ministry ordered a solution more than 2 years ago to remove the said waste from Ecooperation but since then it has not taken the necessary enforcement measures at its disposal. And at this point, the Department of Waste Elimination orders a company that has nothing to do with disputed waste and that in good faith nearly three years ago bought a disputed warehouse and left an Eccompatible time limit for emigration by the end of 2016. According to the prepared offers, the cost of disposal of stored waste amounts to a million 957 thousand 753 kuna for hazardous waste and a non-hazard for a million 353 thousand 426 kuna totaling 3 million 311 thousand 179 kuna plus VAT. In view of the exceptional ecological sensitivity of the area in which the warehouse was held, it is of exceptional interest that the more urgent action is taken to address this problem by the company Ecooperation in bankruptcy, be it the competent institutions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy, or its inspection services. Thank you, and I apologize for being overstepped.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25247	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall, the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25248	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. If you opened the portals today, if you took the newspaper into your hands, you looked at the TV and you saw the radio that the main news was the death of a man in Paris and that's okay because that news is sad. However, it is even more regrettable that on Wednesday, a humiliated, disfigured and robbed Croatian citizen waited for his part in the directorship of the RBA cooperative again committed suicide and that until today, until this moment, no medium has published a single letter about it. For this reason, I asked for a break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club to find out exactly what happened. Mr. Marian Budan of the 59-year-old Sesveda on Wednesday morning had an appointment, he wrote a request for a postponement, hoped that the delay, the solution to the delay would arrive at the last hour on Wednesday morning, about 7, 8 hours but simply did not endure the mental pressure and between 3 and 4 a.m. he committed suicide by hanging. RBA cooperatives in Croatia are a major problem that has been dragging on for years because it is obvious that it is illegal phantom cooperatives whose loans are simply invaluable and eternal even in those cases where the principal credit is repeatedly paid. This case, a tragic case is not the first, it is one in a series of similar events that took place because of the lack of concern of puppet governments, which instead of taking care of their own citizens care about the interests of large capital in their pockets, the governments that have passed and implemented the criminal executive law, the governments that allow counter-constitutional representations from the only home, the governments that allowed loans in Swiss francs and illegal interest and bank fees. Because what's the problem with loans? If one man can't come back, we kick him out of his apartment, it's probably an irresponsible person. If there are 10, we throw them out 10, but if tens of thousands of Croatian citizens can't repay their loans, if thousands of citizens have already been kicked out of their homes, if one third of the people who got the RBA loans are scared of losing their property, then it's not a problem for those who have raised their loans, it's a problem for those who gave credits and for those who should regulate the money market, and that's, above all, the CNB, the finance minister and if you allow this High House. What's Minister Sprite doing? What is Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric doing? What's Governor Vujcic doing? Go out to the streets, take a look at the pillars, offer credits on small paper at tram stations. They are all under the patronage of banks from first to last, found in the Bible, the worst of sorts. Just like the RBA cooperatives owned by the RBA bank. The RBA bank is guilty of a case that took place on Wednesday. Let's just say it loud and clear! I remind you of those who do not know that Spain, Hungary, Italy and Greece have banned the occupations of the only home. What are we waiting for? Hungary has declared all loans from RBA cooperatives worthless, and we haven't done anything yet. I repeat, this isn't the first time anyone's lost their lives for a loan. Study the case of Ivana Mandic from Velika Trgovišče, examine the case of Damir Justament from Koprivnica, examine the case of Ratimir Udovic from Zagreb, Dubrovnik. Consider the case of a war veteran from the city of Kaštel, examine the case of the milkman Ivan Hadjasia who committed suicide with a bomb on 26.3.2017 because he could not repay the loan without the possibility of someone writing for him a special law that would allow him to continue his business. How long will we have the unsustainable suffering of our citizens? What tragedy must finally occur to realize that human lives are worth more than someone's profit? Because it seems that after banks and lenders took all our citizens' money and property, the right to justice and legality, the right to equality in front of a court of law, there is obviously nothing left for them but to pay for the interest rate of illegal loans with their own lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25249	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After yesterday's move, also the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the reply of Minister Dalic to our objection that the writing of the law by lex Agrokor was attended by lawyers, lawyers, interestingly connected with the creditors of Agrokor and those who participate in financial markets and I say the answers given by Minister Dalic that this is not the case, we are again saying that we do not trust the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we do not trust Minister Dalic, and we are surprised that they communicate in any way non-transparently from the Government at this time, because at this point around the Agrokor Government in Croatia does not believe almost so much that nobody does. Ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, did Minister Dalic and Minister Zdravko Marić, who came from Agrokor, believe Croatian citizens? At the moment after they convince us that everything will be fine, that everyone will be charged, that things will stabilize at this point in time, the Agrokora bonds are traded on the Berlin Stock Exchange by 40 and 45%, respectively, the value of the nominal bond. At this point, Sberbank says he'll write off 50% of the debt. So why, Commissioner, does Prime Minister Plenkovic assure small suppliers that they will be charged in full? What guarantees does he give small suppliers? Are these guarantees, like counterpart Lovrinovic said, that a market was created for new debts under the right of credit séniority in Agror, so now there will be those who want to give interest rates 5 and more percent again to Agror loans and thus earn again. And those who until yesterday funded as suppliers of Agrokor will most likely not see their money. And that is why he is no longer responsible primarily politically from this moment on for Agrokor Ivica Todorovic. He and the administration of Agrokora have made the most of the problem so far and they are responsible. But from this moment on, every failure of the supplier, the small supplier in the Republic of Croatia, the small OPG, for each lost post in Agrokor is responsible for Andrej Plenkovic, HDZ and MOST. And I want to make that very clear here. And once again we will say we do not trust the HDZ Government, I will take a fence from the MOST because however Mr. Maric and Mrs. Dalic, who are the most responsible in this entire process on behalf of the Government, come from HDZ, we do not trust the HDZ Government when it gives information both when it works and how it works around Agrokor. We don't believe what Minister Dalic is counseling, and she herself has admitted the interest circles that are not from the government. So let him say who they are, let him say how much she paid for them. So does anyone believe that someone pro bono works for free and advises Minister Dalic. So come on, please be serious! There's a huge interest in the game. If 50% won't be charged, then it's important who collects their 50%. So what do you think that a procuring woman who appears in the media these days who has been able to make him so exposed to Agrokor with regressive bonds is not aware that she does not want to charge most of her 50% is too much of an interest in the game, trust in the HDZ government, in Minister Dalic and Minister Maric and Andrej Plenkovic, primarily the Croatian public. And that is why the SDP today in the procedure will make a request for an investigative committee on Agrokor and ask for your support to get to know the Croatian public about what is going on and what is going to happen next period. And another piece of information for you. There is a serious indication that the Commissioner in Agrokor was also involved in business with some suppliers. Who can he convince of the impartiality and payment of the smallest on the market? We protect the workers and the least suppliers, unfortunately HDZ does not normally care about them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25251	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the CNS, HSU will speak to the distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25252	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The so-called announcement. National pensions, even though I call it state social support because it's the only way to call it, because there's no insurance service paid behind it, has caused triple reactions among our citizens. The first is the group of our citizens who really live in poverty, who are abandoned by all, who are without income, who live out of the welfare of the state or possibly social assistance of richer cities if they have such social assistance programmes or municipalities. So they say and why are you offering us something with a delay of 4 years means of... was the application of this I say under allegations of national pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't survive until then, we don't have time to wait, we're at a high age, so for nothing, that joy we won't experience. So they justifiably resent it because it is a promise to them that seems quite unattainable to them. The second group of citizens is also highly revolved because they heard that the pension should amount to 1045 kuna, which is the poverty line prescribed by some European standards. And they're bitter because they had an example. 38 years of internship, but they haven't had years of life, so they retired five years early and then their pension is 600 kuna a month. So compared to what they earned, the payment of contributions of approximately 600 kuna paid the fine because there were no years and the company had ceased to exist, did not go into early retirement by their own free will because no one goes on his own free will to be punished with 20% lower pension. So we can understand that indignation. And the third group of citizens has justifiably asked the following. So the third group of citizens has a year to 14.5 years of internship and will never receive a pension for it. Why? Because our Peace Insurance Act gives us the right to retire after 65 years only if someone has been paid 15 years, 15 years of training. This does not apply to those users of proportionate pensions. If someone has not known 7 years of training in Germany and according to their criteria they will be entitled to pension from these 5 years here in Croatia to receive a pension. But those who are our citizens, who live here, who only have those 5, 7, 14.5 years of training, insurance doesn't exercise the right to retire. They're justifiably wondering why if not at 65 then at 67 then in the 70th year of life this country wouldn't give us what we've earned. We've paid for 10 years of internships, we've paid 50 thousand kuna to this country. We have the right to possibly be on social property if we don't have any property. Why don't the state at least pay us... 67 or 70 of those 500 kunas that we are aware that we have earned something in life, that we are not burdened by this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there doesn't need to wait four years, there's enough three months to check how many of those people there are. There is enough change to the Pension Insurance Act that can go through here and by emergency procedure, it can be calculated exactly how much it costs and why these people wouldn't be proud that they've earned something, that they don't depend on the state's care. Such people have quite a lot, and it's actually one of the proposals not to wait at all 4 years for that national pension because it's a long wait but to take some steps to get at least a part of the people out of it. And to conclude, according to our people say bake, so say, please give us draft laws, don't make any promises based on a government programme and a national strategy to fight poverty that has no implementation plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25253	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. By listening to these days and through the breaks and through the forwards of individual SDP representatives, we cannot but conclude that from you respected friends are talking loud and enviously about what the law as we call it lex Agrokor made it impossible that through the bankruptcy of Agrokor and its related companies in the Croatian streets tens of thousands of unemployed who, according to your demands, would not be allowed to walk through the bankruptcy of Agrokor and his related companies in the streets of Croatia, which, according to your request that the Government do nothing, do nothing, bring Agrokor into bankruptcy and Jamnica into bankruptcy and Ledo in bankruptcy, Print into bankruptcy Konzum in bankruptcy. Since this did not happen precisely thanks to the Act on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, you spend every day dissipating insinuation, do not tell the truth and try to create the impression that no one in Croatia trusts the Government. No one trusts you dear friends, and the Government is trusted by those who should believe, and these are the employees of Agrokora and all employees in the system of concerts on the one hand and suppliers. Because only twenty days ago, the whole system was blocked, Agrokor blocked, there was Jamnica, Ledo, Belje, Tisak, Konzum blocked. So they were all blocked. The system's stopped. If it wasn't for the law today, there would have been an open bankruptcy against Agrokora, and we all know what bankruptcy means. The bankruptcy means freezing business, nothing happens, no payments, no salaries, no suppliers are paid, no taxes and state contributions are paid, and not one small company, but companies that with their associated companies and suppliers gather about 150 thousand employees. That's your alternative. Your alternative was bankruptcy, don't do anything. Before the local elections, it would have been great for the SDP. You lack state behavior, my dear friends, you lack state behavior. Instead of standing behind not the government, but behind employees and suppliers you persistently, I say you spread lies. And I'll say it in what way. For this speaker, the Deputy Prime Minister said who wrote and who proposed the law. The law was proposed by the Ministry of Economy together with the Ministry of Justice of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vice president who personally wrote the law, that law is her handwriting and not the first law. I worked very, very long with her both in the government and later in the Parliament when we were opposition representatives. And then we wrote the law together. And her law is not a problem to write, but here after this speaker she said that at certain stages of writing the law that they asked for advice from constitutional and legal experts, financial experts who know corporate law, and there are not many in Croatia, and that's clearly what she said here. But there is no one behind the law, no law firm, no legal advisor, no constitutional and legal expert. The Croatian government is behind the law, and after the law was passed in parliament, after the amendment from opposition clubs and HDZ clubs and amendments from the HDZ club stand behind the law. Therefore, you don't need to, in fact, you can, but certainly, those who have trust in both the government and the Parliament and this law because this law has allowed Agrokor and the companies in Agrokor to function normally, wages are paid, suppliers are paid, state obligations are paid. Time has been received from a year in which what is the ultimate objective of the law will be done, and this is to make a settlement with which all the problems around Agrokor will be solved for a long time. If you really want to know so much about all your dear SDP friends, what you were doing at a time when the biggest dubiosiss happened in Agrokor, which was at the time of your government. Then Agrokor set out to buy Mercator to Russian banks, and Agrokor placed bonds on the US market. Where were you then? Where were your employees, your suppliers then? Why didn't you take care of them then? Why didn't you see that this was too dangerous for the system, and this system mainly decides on the financial system of the entire state? Then why didn't you stop? Why didn't you react then? Where were you then? I'm not your dear colleague, Maras, so please, Vice President, let me speak to him, too. No one ever accused you. And we've made a law that doesn't enter property. [[Intruder Reiner: Don't throw it away, please!]] Everything that happened happened at the owner's request. If the owner hadn't given it, he'd have filed a request to activate Lex Agrokor then he wouldn't have been there. Therefore, the law is in accordance with the Constitution. [[Intruder Reiner: Time.]] I'm finishing Mr. Vice President and I'm saying that the government is trusted by those who have to believe, and these are employees and suppliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25255	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, dear Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25256	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the last few days have come to light what has been going on for 25 years in the counties, i.e. since the beginning of the county, which is how national wealth is managed. The most obvious example is how he behaves in Split-Dalmatia County Mayor Ževrnja, in any way that I warned for days that this was not done in this way, and this is our most beautiful beach Zlatni rat na Brač in the municipality of Bol. The people of the municipality of Bol and the citizens made it clear that they would not allow a company that had no income at all from the political circles and interest groups to take over what is most valuable and what is most beautiful against the interests of local self-government, against the interest of the county, which in this way showed that the driver of the development of the Split-Dalmatia County, because of the best wealth, the greatest wealth, resources and potentials did not side with the public interest, but protected the interest of their counterparts, which is why these political elites who decide to give concessions to companies that have income of zero kuna, and on the beach themselves were to invest 73 million kuna. It is the precedent and behaviour of the mayor of Ževrnja, both on the entire coast and in Dubrovnik-Neretva County on the Lapad, in Sibenik-Knin County, in Lika-Senjska on the subject of Zrća. So who's got the money? If this money had been invested, millions and it had been publicly and transparently worked in the interests of local self-government and citizens today would have had in Split-Dalmatia County and free textbooks and free transportation and connection of Dalmatinska Zagora with Split and the connection of the island with Split. But someone decided to fill their pockets. And now the government is sending what it positively sends to the Golden War is establishing a commission to determine the legality of the procedure, and what about the other beaches in Split, Kashjuni, for example.? What about Lapad? It's billions that girls in other people's pockets, which is why our schools are empty, we don't have free textbooks, we don't have the health services of the County of Ževrna in the Cein region, in the Vrgorak area, in the Imotski area, in Makarska. So now before the election, here's what we see is that they're solving labs. No, they can do whatever they want, but I'm sending them a message you won't do as long as you want. The Dalmatian Zagora and the islands will not be extinct because of these criminal decisions. In the interest of individuals and their pockets, if I hadn't warned a few days ago that this decision wasn't made, I wouldn't be out now. I have publicly called on and asked the Mayor of Ževrnja and the County Council not to support this crime against the interests of Brac, Bol, Bracan and the entire Split-Dalmatia County against the interest of development of the Split-Dalmatia County and I repeat. And once again, I call for supervision to be carried out on all concessions of natural resources, so many in my area are just for concessions to run in elections. It's the only interest and all that's left because everything else has been destroyed. The industry is gone, the economy is gone, the only thing left is tourism and national wealth that they want to take into their own pocket. This should be made public. And this decision by the minister must be addressed to all concessions issued. Huge money goes into the pockets of those who have not earned and to the harm of Croatian citizens and these parts that become a burned country. And they shall no longer be allowed to do so, and the people shall have to put an end to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u25257	Thank you very much. Here's what we've exhausted all the pre-election speeches, and then we can move on to regular work. I'm just drawing everyone's attention that we'll have a vote at 12 o'clock. And now we would move to point 1: - Report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012; Reporter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 12. The Nature Protection Act. You've received the material into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, you received reports at the session. Does the applicant, or the applicant, wish to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The report on the state of nature is to summarise the presentation of a comprehensive analysis of the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008/2012. more than 45 experts from the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and external associates participated in the work. The report deals with all the components of nature, which are biodiversity, georaznolicity and landscape diversity, which includes a review and assessment of the state of nature, the reasons for the threat, an analysis of the legal and social framework for nature protection, an analysis of the implementation of mechanisms and protection measures aimed at preserving the good state of nature and all its components, including the problem of protecting protected areas and the ecological network. It also provides a review of the financial resources invested in the protection of nature, analysis of activities and education, information and public participation in the decision-making process and an assessment of the implementation of the Strategy and the Action Plan for the Protection of Biological and Regional diversity in Croatia by 2008. A review of the state of nature shows that the Republic of Croatia continues to be characterized by the great wealth of wild species. About 40,000 wild species were recorded which is 5% more than was known in the previous reporting period. Despite the wealth and implementation of certain conservation measures, many wild species remain at risk but such a trend has also been recorded at global level. It is estimated that nature in Croatia is largely threatened by human activity and changes in natural eco-systems, by over-intense use of biological resources and pollutants. The legal framework for nature protection is broadly consistent with the right acquis. The most significant shifts have been made to protect species and protect national protected areas and the ecological network area. For example, a system for the notification and treatment of dead, sick or injured, strictly protected species and an intensive system for the regulation of trade in wild species has been established in the protection of species. The first two regional parks Moslava Gora and Mura-Drava were declared. The value of certain protected areas has been recognised internationally and the first cross-border UNESCO Biosphere Reserve Mura-Drava-Dunav has been declared. On the basis of data collected from new field research and with a comprehensive communication process, a proposal for the Natura 2000 ecological network has been developed. The report also continued efforts to better integrate nature protection in the education system and an increase in the number of civil society organisations operating in the field of nature protection has been reported. In order to inform the profession and the general public, the thematic bases have been continuously developed, united in the information system of nature protection. The first national survey of citizens' information on nature protection views has also been carried out that most respondents believe that Croatia's greatest value is its preserved nature and that this is exactly the kind of nature that represents an opportunity for economic development. The report on the state of nature of the Republic of Croatia served as the basis for the creation of a new strategy and action plan for the protection of Croatia, therefore the Ministry of Environment and Energy proposes and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36944	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, three. I'm sorry for your exposure. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36945	Thank you very much. You were talking about, so the topic today is to preserve nature and state of nature as the greatest wealth that the Republic of Croatia has finally shown. However, the Ministry's relationship between 2007 and 2015 The Ministry of Environment was a disaster. I'm just going to give an example of how they endangered the Cetina River as a drinking water of 500 thousand people who use it outside the season, in the season of a million people. ... from World War II was planned in recovery because of the interest groups, I am sorry that the former minister is not here, because of the interest groups to be postponed illegally in the salt rock mine near the river Cetina and tributaries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that had happened, if it hadn't been for the citizens' activity today, Cetina would have been destroyed and flora and fauna and not been a drinking river of Cetina. I'm sorry he's not here, Mr. Zmajlović. We had protests where he convinced that this cost from the Long War you know what an industrial cost looks like, that the sea of fertilisers land. Let him dung around his houses, that's when I sent him a message like that and sent it to him. And if it wasn't for the citizens, they wouldn't have protected it. So, openly, the Ministry of Environment worked against the interest of nature and preservation in the interest of groups that are essentially a wasteful mafia. And it's exactly the elaborate on the mining resuscitation of the mine he says he has prescribed what it takes to resuscitate these karst areas. We're trying to fly a thermal power plant along the Cetina River. We have attempts to threaten the Adriatic. So the triba law on debris as the protection of Europe's largest water source, drinking water. It's our fortune. Minister Dobrović is a PGO, a waste management plan that has brought very good and positive to the Republic of Croatia and I hope that we will safeguard our nature and national wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36946	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, you mentioned in your presentation the amount, i.e. the number of plant and animal species found in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm telling you at this point that there is not a single relevant scientific paper that would determine the exact number and that would determine what it's essentially on the territory of Croatia by flora and fauna we have. And it is a shame for the Republic of Croatia especially because there are certain climate processes that contribute to the disappearance of two thousand species or endangered in the Republic of Croatia over the past few years. And here in front of me I have one project proposal offered by the University of Zagreb, the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, a whole project which unfortunately the ministry refused, where in the coordination of all Croatian universities our scientists are offering to create a single threat map in the next two years, a list of plant and animal species in order to be able to monitor it, so that they know for 50 years that all animal and plant species are threatened, are either missing or have migrated and all the other important facts that I think we deserve to leave behind for future generations. I see how other countries do it. For example, I was at a event where I saw a Canadian example. So we have to do it. Unfortunately, you speak your mind here. There's no record of that. So I want the ministry behind those people. These are scientists who deal with it and do something that will remain for future generations. That's what I wanted to say here one more time. I think it's much more important than the obvious approach to how many are gone, how many are gone, how many are gone. So let's do something scientific to keep it behind us and that can be monitored in the future. Here, I can leave you a copy of the project if you want to see it in person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36948	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I commend this report of yours, and there's a pretty well-worked set of things. But I'd like to point out one problem that's not even in this report, and which doesn't care, it's fire protection. Namely, national parks, public institutions have very poorly organised fire protection honors some exceptions, and talks with them say there is no funds. Because according to our structure of fire protection, local self-government units, cities and municipalities have their own units and national parks and public institutions must have their own fire protection. We all know, and we witnessed a tragic event in the Kornati when 12 firefighters were killed and then it was found that the fire protection plans, i.e. the threat assessment and the equipment that exists there, were practically none. That's why I think and appeal, I suggest and pray that from a state level or through a state budget funds are planned and from your ministry or the Energy Efficiency Fund, you must... and stronger funds to help national parks form quality units there and make equipment adequate to protect, not to repeat the tragedy we had on Kornati. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36950	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Oh, yeah. Dear Gordan Maras, Chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 to the President of the Croatian Parliament by means of an act of 9 February 2017 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the proposed report as a parent working body. The Committee also held a joint discussion on the Report and on a proposal for a strategy and action plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017-2025. In its opening statement, the president pointed out that the Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 was drawn up as a summary of the analysis of the nature situation in the Republic of Croatia, which was produced for the same period by the State Institute for Nature Protection in April 2014 where the proposed strategy and Action Plan for Nature Protection for the period 2017-2025 was based. The State of Nature report shall contain an analysis of all the ingredients of nature, landscape diversity, biodiversity and georaznolicity, species threat assessment, analysis of the legal and institutional framework for nature protection, and review of the financial resources invested in nature protection. A review of the state of nature shows that the Republic of Croatia remains characterised by the great wealth of wild species but despite the implementation of certain conservation measures, many wild species remain at risk. Nature in the Republic of Croatia is largely threatened by human activity and changes in natural ecosystems, the use of biological resources and pollution. It has been reported to result in fragmentation, degradation and loss of habitat. The most significant shifts have been made to protect species and protect areas in a broader sense in national protected areas and the ecological network. During the reporting period, efforts have been continued to improve the integration of nature protection in the education system. At the same time, in order to inform the public and the professions, the thematic bases are united into the information system of nature protection. The first national survey of the views and information of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the protection of nature has been carried out that most respondents believe that the highest value of the Republic of Croatia is its preserved nature and that nature represents an opportunity for economic development. After the debate, the Committee decided unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the next conclusion, which is to accept the Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36952	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the distinguished representative Ambrusec. Dear Ambrusec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36953	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State Shiljeg, esteemed MPs and MPs. By reading materials and reports of nature in the Republic of Croatia, we ask ourselves a question, what is the legal basis for this report, and why is it submitted to this respected House? The legal basis for the preparation of the report on the state of nature is set out in Article 12. Nature Protection Act, National Journal, No. 80/13 where it is stated that the report is adopted for the purposes of an analysis of the achievement of the objectives and activities of the nature protection strategy. The proposal for a report on the state of nature is produced by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and is proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, in accordance with the Nature Protection Act, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who submits it to the Croatian Parliament for acceptance of what we heard from the Secretary of State from the report and the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection of Mr Maras. We received data from the report that more than 45 experts from the Croatian Environment and Nature and External Associates Agency, the majority from the scientific and professional community, were involved, that about a thousand references were used. The report shall be based on data from the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and data collected from other relevant entities including state administration bodies, public management bodies, protected natural and regional, local, local, public, scientific and civil society organisations. In the opening of the adoption procedure, the report was also sent to show all relevant central authorities of the state administration. After these procedures, all the comments have been received and the basis for which we can consider the same. So we ask ourselves, how are the funds for the implementation of this document secured and can implementation require additional burden on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia? Where it says that the Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 does not have any fiscal impact on the revenues and expenditures of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is exclusively a review of the situation of nature in the Republic of Croatia for a 5-year period and does not commit as such to the implementation of certain activities but establishes facts and constitutes the basis for new strategic actions and plans proposed in the strategy in the Action Plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2025. The report in question also states in its name that the period... By 2012, you were once again asked why is it in the procedure now in 2017? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nature status data are also included in the 2012 report for which the values were only available in 2013 when the report was launched as part of the project support for implementation of the Strategic Plan, the Convention on Biodiversity in Croatia, by the Global Environment Fund. How a large number of references with a large amount of data were made during the start of the data collection phase were presented in the Nature State Analysis document 2008 to 2012 on 500 pages published on the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency website in December 2014. The mentioned analysis of the state of nature summarised data in the Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia, and the procedure for the adoption of the report was first encouraged in 2015 with the aim of its parallel adoption with the strategy and the Action Plan for the Protection of Nature of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that it is done on the basis of the facts and conclusions adopted in the report. The draft Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 was adopted at the 253rd session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 17 September 2015 and was sent to the Croatian Parliament but was not discussed until the moment of the Croatian Parliament's disbandment. In the second quarter of 2016, the procedure for the adoption of the report was re-launched to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 27 June 2016, but was not discussed. Therefore, in the 4th quarter of 2016, the procedure for the adoption of the report was restarted, all according to the answers we received. In addition, this report is the result of a comprehensive analysis of the state of nature which handles all the ingredients of nature, biodiversity, landscape diversity, geonomy. It therefore contains a review and assessment of the situation, natural causes of threat, analysis of the legal and institutional framework of nature protection, analysis of implementation of the mechanism and protection measures aimed at preserving the good state of nature and all its components, including issues of protection of protected areas and the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia. The report also provides a review of the financial resources invested in nature protection, an analysis of activities, strategies, an analysis of education, information and public participation on decision-making, and an assessment of the implementation of the strategy and action plan, the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity from 2008. We are again asking ourselves what the main conclusions of this extensive analysis of the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia are and what they represent. We're also giving ourselves an answer in terms of scope. Thus, a review of the state of nature shows that the Republic of Croatia continues to be characterized by the great wealth of wild species, special species of freshwater fish. Some 40,000 wild species were recorded, or 5% more than was known in the previous reporting period. Despite this wealth and the implementation of certain conservation measures, however, many wild species remain at risk. It is estimated that nature in the Republic of Croatia is largely threatened by human activity and changes in natural eco-systems, the pre-intense use of biological resources and pollutants. This effect for the consequences has primarily fragmentation, degradation and loss of habitat. There is an increasingly significant problem of intense foreign species. The legal framework for nature protection is broadly consistent with the EU acquis. The number of civil society organisations has increased. The most significant developments were made in the protection of species and the protection of national protected areas and areas of the ecological network. On the basis of data collected from these field surveys and with a wide communication process in the reporting period, a proposal for the Natura 2000 ecological network was also developed. Progress has been made in the management of protected areas and environmental networks specifically related to the planning of management of protected areas. It is also pointed out that the assessment of the acceptability of the environmental network procedures is one of the most significant mechanisms for the conservation of the ecological network and has been implemented in the Republic of Croatia since 2007. The reporting period continued efforts to better integrate nature protection into the education system including the introduction of three new study programmes from the field of nature protection. In order to inform the profession and the general public, the thematic bases have been continuously developed, united in the information system of nature protection. The first national survey of the views and information of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the protection of nature has also been carried out that most respondents believe that the highest value of the Republic of Croatia is its preserved nature and that this is exactly the nature of our economic development. The protection of nature as the public sector in the Republic of Croatia continues to rely on funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, with an average of around 70.5 million kuna or 0.06% of the total state budget of the Republic of Croatia being 14% less than in the previous reporting period. The biggest drop in nature protection funding was recorded in 2010 which is linked to the beginning of the recession, but also increased the share of funding between... Mostly because of the World Bank loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most significant international source for grant funding was pre-accession EU funds. An analysis of the implementation of the current 2008 action plan for the protection of the biodiversity and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia has shown that most of the estimated action plans have been implemented to a certain extent. The major shifts were made in the implementation of targeted activities related to the assessment of acceptability and procedures for nature, genetically modified organisms, research and monitoring of the situation and forestry. This result is largely linked to intensifying activities due to the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the conclusions set out in the report and on the basis of which the strategic objectives of the strategies and the action plan for nature protection in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2025 are defined. By implementing these documents, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil the obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. This applies in particular to the establishment of implementing mechanisms to ensure a favourable state of conservation of species and habitat types primarily through the management of the Natura 2000 ecological network. Further to achieving these objectives, the need for quality cross-sectoral cooperation and understanding that nature is a prerequisite for the survival and progress of society is recognised. The club MOST Independent Lists has been carefully promoted by the Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of accepting the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36954	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36955	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues, respected secretaries of the ministry. We've actually heard a lot of data here about nature protection, but what's crucial is no one is saying that today in the system in nature protection there are as many as 9 categories of protected natural areas, two or three categories are under the authority of the state, these remain under the authority of regional or local self-government. By the time the legislator passed the law, he did not take care at all about the financing of these protected natural areas, he made it so easy not to make sure that local and regional self-government could not finance it. With very large differences, some counties have only one tree that is protected, so they have public institutions that care about these areas. On the contrary, there are counties like my Sibenik-Kninska which have many, even 9 protected natural areas that are huge areas and have the same obligations to the ministry as those other counties, I think it is not fair. On the other hand, we're talking about nature protection here, but we need to figure out two things, protect our property and protect our areas. We have very absurd things, I'll only mention one. The hedgehogs. The javelins are protected as a property back in the '60s if I'm not mistaken and today the javelins are the sea's main monster of the Croatian sea. According to the experts' findings, they destroyed 95%, meaning nearly 6000 km of Croatian coast, so when they spoke about land and islands, so the submarine was devastated by these hedgehogs, and nobody's talking about it. Furthermore, we have expert bases that are ancient, the youngest are brought in in the 1970s. So today we're talking about nature protection and we have a professional background when from a time when nature was interpreted and evaluated in a completely different way. This report, given the law that is insufficient or full of holes, is good, but first we need to change the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36956	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ambrusec will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36957	Dear colleague, I agree in principle with you in a way that indeed every county has and I will be free, so I will say a great deal of problems in the privacy and environmental protection and also in its strategies that have been made in the way they have been made. So, I can talk about Zagreb County which also has layered problems and, of course, you notice that there really are a lot of problems that should be put through the law, perhaps to improve the law to actually make these strategies live in a way that would be appropriate for the population of each single county. I hope that the fellow secretary of state will certainly have a more detailed explanation, given that there is a strategy at the level of the Republic of Croatia and also separate each county for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36958	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36959	Dear colleagues... I'll ask some questions, expect all the answers of course, Mr. Zekanovic said they were... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These areas of our, national parks, local self-government, etc., 9 categories and I think sometimes in Croatia, we have a big gap between strategic and implementation plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means in many places that the authority of the emperor stops at the fence of the villages. I'm interested in 500 pages of this report. We have 500 pages. Recently, the man got an A4 for an 80-page inspection, we're doing paperwork. Where is this mechanism that will implement these laws on the ground, what is the training, the filling, the equipment of these people, how many of them will work in national parks? How long does this training take? What happens to me, I don't know from the open source of information you read? I don't know who was last convicted in Croatia for the massacre of these endangered savages, for example, Risov. We know he's crossing the border under Dinara to massacre the game, the big game. There'll be no consequences. What about the wild dumps? How much do we have in Zagreb County? We have hundreds of wild dumps. We've got paper. Again in Croatia we have laws and we do not, all these laws are within one dysfunctional legal system and there is no mechanism for implementation. Just paperwork. How many times did Vransko Lake burn up there and how many pyromaniacs are reported down on the coast at the time of tourism. We've got weed burns. She stopped there on the main road down to the sea, nothing. I'm interested in these cold data, how many people are being punished, etc. And what I was talking about was the mechanism. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36960	Thank you. Here's what they're going to try to answer to that MP Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36961	Dear colleague, yes, I agree strategic plans are one thing, implementation is something else, and implementation itself is indeed something else. We know that the Republic of Croatia has lived like this for years. The laws are, of course, being implemented in order to end them and break them, and we hope that this strategic plan, which I suppose will be adopted from these 500 pages that you and I have mentioned, will actually be a situation that, through the next period and our lives that are coming to us, I hope that this implementation will still improve, and that it will continue to live in the same way that not so many laws have been broken so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36962	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strike, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36963	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You colleagues have devoted a large part of your debate to the use of EU funds, especially when it comes to protecting nature and the environment. On 10 February 2011, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Regulation declaring the regional park Mura - Drava. This regulation protects the entire stream of the Mura and Drava rivers in accordance with the Nature Protection Act in the category of regional park. It is also the first regional park in the Republic of Croatia. It stretches along the rivers Mura and Drava, i.e. through five counties. And now we have an example from county to county different. For example, the Međimurje County has successfully used the possibility of using EU funds and, at the same time, it has gone into the project of its anglomeration as well as Varazdinska. Anglomeration Čakovec ends this year, and the Varazdin County has not yet been able to bury one single shovel. Or we have an example of neighboring counties that as successfully as they manage their waste, while we have an example of the Varazdin County, or the city of Varazdin, which has failed to solve the problem of embalmed waste for six years. After every heavy rain around these bales, a flood occurs and, of course, it all ends in the flows of the Plitvice River, Drava, submerged by the Danube. So here's when we talk about the use of EU funds, maybe the government should take a certain position from its level and encourage these less successful counties to team up with experts, not similar, and start out in the same way as neighbouring counties using the possibility of EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36964	Thank you. Dear Representative Ambrusec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36965	Your Honor. Yes, I have been touched in one part about the grants that have been from EU pre-accession funds, but I have been more based on this part where let's say this legal framework for nature protection has been broadly consistent with the EU acquis since we became a member of the EU. So, I was more of a based on it. But mostly I agree with this part because, I've already said it several times here, we're really full of EU funds, and that's exactly what I'd say, and the eco incidents that happen to the type of flood, the type I don't know of fire really should also be brought into line with the EU funds, and it's simply a big help in this way that we're pulling more funds for the future not only for the benefit, so the benefits in the sense of clearing the entire system, but actually in this part if any eco incidents happen in the Republic of Croatia happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36966	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Majda Buric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36967	Thank you, dear Vice President Reiner, the Honorable Secretary of State, Shiljeg, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012. What first falls into the eyes and does not give a very good impression at first sight is that the report relating to the period 2008 to 2012 is being discussed and adopted in 2017. What's this about? This report covers data collected systematically by 2012 and analysed and processed during 2013 and 2014. Afterwards, the draft report on the state of nature, together with the draft strategy, was adopted only at the 253rd meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 17 September 2015 and were sent to the Croatian Parliament but were not discussed until the moment of the Croatian Parliament's disbandment. In the second quarter of 2016, the procedure for the adoption of the report was re-launched and a new draft report was re-launched to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 27 June 2016 but the same was not discussed, and the procedure for the adoption of the document was restarted in the fourth quarter of 2016. Therefore, this summary of the report of a comprehensive analysis of the state of nature in the period from 2008 to 2012 is processed by all its components, landscape diversity, biodiversity and geonomy and, in accordance with the Nature Protection Act, the report is produced for a period of 5 years. The State Institute for Nature Protection as the legal predecessor of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency has processed and analysed the data collected during 2013 and 2014 as I have already stated. The report is the result of a comprehensive analysis involving more than 45 experts from the State Institute for Nature Protection and External Cooperation and has been used around a thousand references. The report shall contain a review and an assessment of the state of nature, the reasons for the threat of nature constituents, an analysis of the legal and institutional framework for nature protection, an analysis of the implementation of the mechanisms and protection measures aimed at preserving the good state of nature and all its components, including issues of protection of protected areas and the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia. As noted, it is estimated that nature in the Republic of Croatia is largely at risk of human activity and changes in natural eco-systems, the use of biological resources and pollution. This effect has, above all, fragmentation, degradation and loss of habitat. From the individual causes of the threat to nature, the dams and management and use of water and other eco-systems are particularly highlighted. The increased collection of self-inflicted plants for commercial purposes and intensive planning and construction of wind power plants has also been reported, with an increasingly pronounced problem of invasive foreign species. The most significant shifts were made in the protection of species and in the protection of areas in the wider sense, therefore, of national protected areas and of the ecological network. In the protection of species continued work on the problem of the protection of large beasts, there is thought of bear, lynx and wolf first of all. A system for reporting and handling dead, sick or injured strictly protected marine animals has been established. A system of regulation of wildlife trade was also implemented. At the end of the reporting period, 431 areas were identified protected in one of the 9 national categories of protection and 8.68% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, respectively. The first two regional parks, as already stated, were Moslavacka Gora and Mura-Drava. And the value of certain protected areas is also recognised internationally. The report also includes an analysis of activities undertaken in nature protection education and information and public participation in nature protection decisions. Knowledge of nature protection acquired by education is important for raising awareness of the importance of nature conservation, efforts have been continued to combat the integration of nature protection into the system of education. In order to inform the profession and the general public, the thematic bases have been continuously developed, united in the information system of nature protection. The first national survey of the views and information of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the protection of nature has also been carried out that most respondents believe that the highest value of the Republic of Croatia is its preserved nature and that nature represents an opportunity for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to that report, it also provides a review of the financial resources invested in nature protection during the reporting period. The analysis of the financial resources for that period shows that the protection of nature as a public sector relies on funding from the state budget. For nature protection in the reporting period, an average of 70.5 million kuna per year or 0.06% of the total state budget was allocated, which is about 14% less than in the 2003-2007 reporting period. Only 1.5% of the funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund as an extra- budget fund were spent in the report period for nature protection. From international sources of funding for the reporting period, EU PFARE, IPA, etc. pre-accession funds are the most significant. The report also gives an assessment of the implementation of the strategy and the 2008 action plan for the protection of biodiversity and landscape diversity, which shows that 74% of the activities were carried out in full or at least partially. The report notes that priorities in the next period are tightly linked to commitments arising from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, in particular when it comes to establishing implementing mechanisms to ensure a favourable state of conservation of species and habitats through the management of the Natura 2000 ecological network. The major shifts were made in the implementation of targeted activities related to the assessment of the acceptability of nature procedures, genetically modified organisms, research and monitoring of the situation and forestry. The HDZ Final Club will also support the report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36968	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36969	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State, this subject could be discussed for a very long time, and I will now warn you of one thing I haven't heard from my colleague and it's a very important matter, and it's about the Internal Order Rules. They don't exist with mahogany for any protected natural area. So, the ministry does not insist that institutions directly under their authority mean nature parks and national parks or even strict reserves bring such regulations without talking about lower levels of protection left to the local and regional self-government. They are necessary for supervisory services to act. Today, according to the law, we do not even know what activities, activities are allowed, which are not in certain protected natural areas because each is specific. With professional bases as I just said earlier, this is another necessary thing to do before, meaning to order national parks and nature parks, as well as county public institutions and those who manage local self-government and to do so. Furthermore, I'm talking about the Inspection of Nature's Protection. Here's what I mentioned about surveillance. See little of their effectiveness, or how many of those solutions they drop, how many of the accusative proposals they drop actually become powerful. I mean almost none. We have one problem that Croatian courts do not recognize at all the importance of nature protection and that all cases that come into court through the system of nature protection simply or fall into obsolescence or lawsuits are rejected. This is something that needs to be taken into account, because then the inspection and surveillance services of public institutions actually don't make sense. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36970	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36971	Thank you, dear Mr. Zekanovic. Well, here we are soon, or at the second point, we'll discuss the strategy. In the strategy, as the first measure, the first goal is to increase the effectiveness of the basic nature protection mechanisms, and that is precisely what you asked me, and you yourself said that I did not mention it, but you asked anyway. So it's about rules, it's about acts, and it's about objective 1.1 on page 23. The strategies tell you exactly how to enhance the analysis of the effectiveness of the legislative framework and other acts. Well, here it is, we'll continue at the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36972	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36973	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, when we talk about this topic and the report and the analysis of the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia for 2008-2012, we must note that this is another such report. The first report was made in 2008. This report includes 2008, 2012 and what it shows, shows that the state of all the components of nature and landscape diversity and biodiversity and georaznolicity has been analysed. The most significant reduction in surfaces has been reported in all types of forests, especially the white-gorous forests, which are the most significant for the forest biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia. We continue to be decorated as a land of great wealth of wild species. We have about 40,000 wild species, or even more than that report for 2007. Many species and biodiversity are endangered and the most natural threat is manifested through human behaviour, nature and environmental protection, through climate change. And what I would say here is how we treat ourselves and as a state to certain problems that are acute, that happen at any moment and at this moment in the Republic of Croatia, or where we fail to do anything to get rid of them. So we'll support this report. We are not satisfied with the relationship of responsible stakeholders in the system regarding environmental and nature protection, and we think that the situation as far as this is concerned is not better every day than it is worse. What I'm trying to say here is once again, we point out the need to bring in a comprehensive document. Here and I also told the Secretary of State in the introduction in the replica it is necessary to really do one study, one activity where everyone will be involved in order to really have a better list of quality, no matter how many institutions are involved here. There are methods and ways that unfortunately are not and which require a systematic and scientific approach to know about 10, 50 or 100 years of age that we had in the Republic of Croatia from flora and fauna and what we lost, that is, what we have acquired in particular. Perhaps we are not even aware of certain organisms and plants and animals that we have in Croatia, and we have not yet listed them. That's what we think should also be classified and done. What the current relationship shows is that I would say the country's institution towards environmental protection and nature can be summarised through several graphic examples that I will now set here, which are known as problems and which are almost nothing done. The first example is Slavonski Brod, or Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. We talk about it a lot. We're all complicated, but concrete activities except cross-border conversations have none. And once again here I will warn all of you, the Croatian public and the people who look at us in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County that on March 10th it means 41 days ago the SDP Representatives Club sent a proposal of the Law on the Market for Oil and Oil Products that would allow pressure, legitimate pressure on the owners of the Refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to modernize it and to allow it to be established and already unequivocally established that this refinery damages the health of our people, which is primarily the most important, damages the environment also in our country that would allow the transport of oil, raw materials for the refinery in the Bosnian Ship through the JANAF and our infrastructure. So we referred this to March 10, 2017, as promised in the parliamentary procedure. You know what the paradox is? We all agreed that an emergency procedure was needed, first and second reading, unanimously it was adopted here but since then nothing. I wrote a rush to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic warning him of the problem that as soon as possible the government is being shown so that it can be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament. I asked the presidents of the Committee on Economy who is in charge because the president of the Croatian Parliament, Petrov, asked the president of the Committee on Economy, Mr Kosor, for them to discuss this at their session so that they could discuss it at the plenary session and draw certain conclusions. In other words, they pulled us by the nose and us in opposition, at the SDP Representatives' Club. But that's the least of the problems. The biggest problem is that they pulled 80,000 citizens into the city of Slavonski Brod and perhaps tens of thousands more exposed to this pollution. So they showed that they didn't care at all, they showed they didn't want to do anything because otherwise this law would have been discussed in the Croatian Assembly and not only would they raise their hands for urgency and then let it go to all of its slow, none of it, cloudy over time than we would already have the law at this point. It could've been done, so there's no desire. And that raise of hands about the urgency of the procedure was false and that citizens and citizens of Slavonski Brod must know. This is our relationship, namely the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, the HZD to this problem that is not solved except for the talks and certain projects that should be implemented in 2020 and some I don't know a few years later, which will not solve anything. Another picture of our relationship to nature, on Monday I was, excuse me not on Monday, but on Tuesday I visited a small town in Trogir municipality, Plano, where I was invited by locals, warning me of problems they had with environmental protection and the threat of nature, or certain situations that were totally incomprehensible to me. So now I'm going to show you pictures of the person by the announcements of the locals and no one has denied either the ministry that I have also warned or anyone else where one gentleman in 2009 got to use the country to plant olives. Olives, of course, don't have any there, but that's why there's grown a bunch of building materials on land where the gentleman pays a concession for agriculture, for olives. Here's another picture of the hills where hundreds and hundreds of trucks of construction material are obviously wastes attached to that plot. In Plan, the municipality, i.e. the town of Trogir and the town of Kaštela share that small place in two parts. And nothing to anyone. He sent a memo to Mr. Tolusic and the Minister of Agriculture to warn him, let's see what's going on there, is it normal, is it even possible that someone by the road passes a hundred cars there every day, maybe here's Ante going home when she comes down from Prgomet by that hill of construction waste because she's going to Kaštela's house. Everyone sees it, everyone obviously knows it, nobody does anything. I see Minister Tolusic is quite active on social networks, so I've also tagged him in my status to see a man, not to say I didn't see what you warned me about, but here's a picture of you, here's a memo, here's a local warning. So 8 years obviously this problem exists there and I want this problem solved for the local city of Trogir, or the local board of Plano. I was also visiting the quarrys, a part of the quarry was lost, and it was put out of force by the administrative process of environmental impact studies. I also see a failure by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature to do what to do in this sense because as environmental impact studies fell in the administrative court they still act as if nothing had happened. I think that's where you should react. And I think that place should get more quality infrastructure. You can't put 13 quarrys in one place and you don't have quality roads where a rock with trucks would be taken away and the place wouldn't be devastated. So another picture of how we treat nature in the Republic of Croatia and how they miss the institutions of the Republic of Croatia react correctly. Next image, Lomnica near the city of Zagreb. Issues The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature study of environmental impacts, as there is no, will be no impact on the cement base and concrete plant located 3 hundred meters from the water supply site, 50 meters from the lake and 10 meters from the houses. Here I give strong support to the citizens of Lomnica and to all citizens of Velika Gorica and the city of Zagreb who draw water from that water supply and drink tap water. And I'm going to ask today for full documentation from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature regarding the issue of permits, i.e. an environmental impact study, to allow the construction of concrete and cement plants to be built there. And I'm gonna ask them to take another look at the audit, but trust me, I'll be very persistent here. I will not say as Mayor of Velika Gorica Barisic that he will seek the same thing, and the ministry where we now have a representative, essentially, of HDZ and MOST. So what the hell didn't you ask for before? What are you now that the locals have risen 300, 400, here's the rally they had three days ago. Your election's in a month and a half, so now you're looking for audits, rebelling. With all legal means, he'll try to stop. Well, you could have stopped if you wanted to in the last year and a few days since you took power in the Republic of Croatia. It's the same thing as Slavonic and Bosnian. Same. Sell the story to the citizens, and do nothing. And if it is to Barisic it will be done. But everything needs to be done to avoid jeopardising the quality of water for the city of Zagreb and Velika Gorica and to avoid jeopardizing the health of what is also most important for the people living in that part. 10 meters from houses cement base and concrete store, really something that's worth it, it's amazing to me at all that the study might have shown these results as they had, so we're giving the citizens of Lomnice support and we're going to try to get these things out to clean. And one more thing about the quality of drinking water. We had a thematic session in the Croatian Parliament two days ago. Here I want to get to know the citizens of Slavonia most of all with certain conclusions and certain problems they have had, and they know them better than all of us because they live with it every day and with increased arsenic values in the systems of water supplying Komletins, Korođa, Markusica, Ostrova and Privlaka, means that part of Slavonia and the whole part of Slavonia that we have received a promise that they will join the water supply system of the island by the end of the year. And in particular, attention should be paid to the quality of water that will also be given to new investment projects that are being done in Slavonia because there is the greatest threat with this I said arsenic. We are concerned about the fact that the funds are being withdrawn slowly, even Minister Žalac noticed, that Mr Dobrovic is very slow to withdraw EU funds. It would be better to speed up these projects, to protect our citizens in some way, and to raise the quality of water in Slavonia, and in Dalmatia, because every bit of water is clouded, the water around Split is clouded, the water around Dubrovnik is clouded, all over Dalmatia. It is almost impossible to avoid in the debris, but it is amazing that these projects like us as a tourist country, the quality of our citizens and tourists who visit us do not pay more attention. So on that side, I appeal here to Minister Dobrović to speed up, terribly slow work. Terriblely, I'd say they're working unquality, because otherwise, if they had quality, they'd probably be doing those projects, too. So we would succeed with several hundred million kunas co-financed by EU funds to solve the problems of this which I said water quality in Dalmatia and Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36974	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36975	Dear Vice President, I was going to say one thing, but I'm going to do another because the Honorable Secretary of State left the assembly and I'm going to find a chance to tell him later. Here I would point to a problem that is also important to me. We have a duplication of state institutions in the bodies of local and regional self-government. We have, every county has the Department of Environmental Protection, every city has the Department of Environmental Protection, which is also the Department of Nature Protection. On the contrary, all counties are obliged to have public institutions that are again for nature protection. Also, many local self-governments are reopening, establishing their own public institutions to protect nature. I think we should take a little care of this here and rationalize a little things, because this just doesn't make sense. The same job description or one issue certificates to others, and they all do almost identical work. With the fact that I have to say here, we've got a bunch of other functions here. We still have another director, another secretary, another finance person, and we always complain that we have the meaning of one inefficient regional and local self-government so I would point to this problem as well. And about the other things a little later when Mr. Secretary gets here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36976	Thank you. The replica institution is in general that what the speaker was saying, but apparently, colleague Maras will respond to that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36977	Well, I will. I'll answer first that it's not appropriate that there's no one from the government, but there's absolutely no one left in the assembly. That's the first thing I'm gonna object to. I agree, but there's always a chance that two people from the government will come. [[I have to say that the secretary of state has been here the whole time. He's gone out this minute. She can probably go out for a few minutes.]] And ten can do it. [[And maybe ten, yes.]] See how many chairs there are? So he can come. I don't think that when we're having a discussion, it doesn't really work on a man right now. Maybe the man left out of need. I won't say, but I should. It should ensure that several people, then, are minister, deputy, secretary of state, assistant, no matter who's heard what's said. And what Mr. Zekanovic said was absolutely correct. But there's a bigger problem than doubling when there's nothing to do. So when people tell me, I'll tell you again from the Plan when the inspection starts before he knows who the inspector is going to visit than what the maltenes know, the one who's gone to the inspector. So the boss is writing a warrant, before he tells these guys who's going before he says, "Go over there and take a look." Perhaps a really mining inspection under the Ministry of Economy and Ecological should do a number of rehearsals in other parts of the country where they haven't quite arrived to join and re-netify yet. Because we're supposed to be interested, here's another wonder how it's possible that someone's building waste by the road is dumping on agricultural land that the state gave him in the concession. It happens, right now it happens, everybody sees it, everybody knows it, nobody reacts. And once again, I call on Minister Tolusic to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36978	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I understand absolutely, and I share your concerns both as a member and as president of the Committee, as well as a environmentalist for these problems that you have listed and certainly has that much accuracy. However, I find it strange that for 4 years you were both a minister and a position of government and all these problems that if we first talk about Slavonski Brod and the refinery in Slavonski Brod, you did not show such speed. And somehow I can't accept either your credibility in that regard and I didn't notice that Prime Minister Milanovic was fighting something terrible and worried about Slavonski Brod that doesn't justify any government that came after. But this government has in these six months or as long as it is there the government has shown a series of measures and actions personally from the prime minister that you prefer to quote logically as representatives of the opposition as well as the diplomatic and vice president of the state a series of actions and procedures. You are aware that this is not a problem that can be solved overnight or in three minutes. But the work is done and the activities are present. And as far as Planog is concerned, also the problem of Planog isn't since yesterday. And in your time, four years of your government was written a series of memos to inspections, an intervention was required to address this problem that is now huge and certainly more decisive than five years ago. I also encouraged and you know it on our board and the question here did not even mention the radioactive... which from the time of Rankovic was brought to Kaštala as well as the cement, the burning of waste where your government gave the approval of cements for burning domestic waste in cement, which, the whole area down was against. And it was correct when you went to the Plan that you also contacted the board members and not yourself as committee president.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36980	The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36981	Here, Mr. Vice-President, I have just signed as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament a request from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Nature and Energy for Audit and Documentation regarding the study for concrete and asphalt base in the working zone of Donja Lomnica. That is how it is done, not as Mayor Barisic, who announced it. I signed it and now I will hand it directly to the Secretary of State when it is arranged in the Croatian Parliament and I will try to help the citizens of Donja Lomnica not to do so there to protect their health and quality of water for Novi Zagreb and Velika Gorica, which is being drawn from that part. So let's try Mr. Sanader not to go back in time, one man can't do everything, he can't be in charge of everything, nor can ad hoc generally be called for anything that's happened in the past x years, so neither can I you, nor can you call me. Let's see what we're doing right now, I've been to Lomnica for a call, God in Lomnica, in the Plan for calling citizens, and they've never pointed me to a problem, I've responded immediately, and now I'm taking it out. And I'll ask Tolusic five times in a row when I see him, if he needs to persist until that problem is solved. You know that, now you've said yourself that you know this problem, you pass it every week when you go home from the Parliament to Kaštel. A man tied up a mountain of construction waste in a place where he was supposed to plant olives. So let's work it out, let's correct that injustice, let's get someone who's done some damage to the environment to pay for it and move it away. That's what we want to do here, that's the point, not now who he was, when he was, so we won't always talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36982	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I greatly appreciate your concern for the environment because environmental destruction is actually, should we explain what it means? The environment is nature around us, man is part of nature, and all that is done against nature is against man. And that's why it seems to me that this problem goes beyond political if you want opposites and political competitions. I therefore support every initiative in this regard, but I will refer to several situations. It's a problem that's a global character. And I'm just going to tell you that I think the earthly court in Karlsruhe has passed a law by which man has no natural right to water. So that's something scary, that's something we can expect to happen to us tomorrow. And colleague Maras, you're gonna answer me, you probably will, so listen to me, please. So I support all your concerns and I will be on your side there is no doubt but let's try to overcome the political arguments in this House when it is but let's try to get ahead of the political arguments in this House when it comes to this issue. The Slavon ship is a terrible situation, and I'll be there for every initiative, but to get rid of it, you know it's not that simple. I agree you need to speed up. However, this... I also know the situation very well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People were getting concessions for planting olives. If I can locate that field correctly, if you were there, it's one terrain that's so rough to plant olives, and many olives have been created so that it's primarily a waste disposal and then the land there. Is that it? But I think it might be. Second, quarrys. I completely agree that the number of the quarry is inadmissible. I'll just mention Italy has banned the extraction of stone, and all the stone from... And that part of it is exported to Italy, and Italy does not remove its stone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the problem of people who are beyond political differences and let's try to solve this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36984	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36985	Thank you very much. Here's a dozen seconds, you're gonna tolerate me while I'm on board. Mr. Dodig, I agree with you, but I don't think I can get into it, nor does it say anywhere that someone is with, nor is it possible to make quality soil out of construction waste, from the stones of this. I think in 2009, he got a man concession. So it's been eight years. He's paying 6,000 reportedly now needs to verify the exact details, but 6000 kuna and the waste is valid. Well, it's an economic activity he didn't get for. You can't work for olives and make a dump of economic waste. That's what I'm saying. So now I'm not getting into how you're supposed to assume an olive tree. But if someone in 2009 got to plant olives, and not a single olive tree was planted, and on the other hand it's worth the waste there, then I have to warn it as a representative, regardless of which there is no policy because there are people living there who vote for all parties and all are unisoned about the problem being solved. About Slavonski Brod, so what else am I supposed to do than appeal like this? We all agreed that this should go into emergency procedure. It's been 41 days. So how am I supposed to tell people now that it wasn't a figurine in the ruling majority's pocket and avoid it as politicizing. Now somebody's gonna tell me. If he had the will, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the HDZ government would have responded, Mr Kosor would have already called the Committee on Economy, put it on the agenda and already discussed the law and brought it here. But if there is no will then it is not possible to do it, and I am the only one who can, I can warn this on an open stage, tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what I want, what I stand for, and what the ruling majority does not do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36986	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'll say I'll agree to your debate. It is to discuss the report on the state of nature in the Republic of Croatia from 2008 to 2012 and there is really nothing to say. It's the time behind us and the report is as acceptable. However, you have encouraged certain topics precisely related to environmental protection, nature protection and you have mentioned certain problems such as Slavonski Brod, water protection, and so today I have requested a break just to encourage the ruling that it agrees with you that they are slow and that they speed up all procedures precisely in order to address the potential places of pollution in our environment, i.e. Nature. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is except for this Slavonski Brod has an operational plan where nine black points are recorded. We boast that we have prepared the documentation and we have the possibility of withdrawing money from the EU funds right for recovery. So I'm interested here as chairman of the board to put it in one thematic session and see what the ministry does about it. The fact is that the government, i.e. The ministry is just about solving these problems is slow. The question has also been asked to repeat certain things at the state level, county or local, and I will say that it is simple because there is no such connection and trust I will say in those lower levels. I'll tell the Istrian County that both through Natura Histrica and through the Institute of Public Health that we have a daily or I'll say the current measurement and air quality, water quality, sea quality, and that we certainly take care of it locally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36988	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36989	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. That's the only way I've learned. So, if I see a problem, I'm trying to solve it. And here I openly invite all those who look at us as the locals from the plan have invited me. I will come to every place where there is a particular environmental problem and point it from this stage, from this scene. That's my job. I am a representative and my duty is especially as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature to point to these problems. So call me again. I'm not just gonna come to Plano, I'm gonna come to Lomnica. I'll come to any other place where you have an environmental problem and where you've seen the slowness of the administration, or don't worry about the administration. And what you said earlier, as soon as I saw information in the media by Ms. Žalac, Minister of Regional Development and the EU funds, which warned that the most critical withdrawal of funds in the Ministry of Energy, environmental protection and the nature of Mr. Dobrovic and warned the public that he was threatening to lose funds from the EU. I have asked for information and I will call a thematic session of the Committee on this subject. I want to get to know the public about this because I am convinced that we can solve a lot of problems from this area of environmental protection and nature through EU funds. I mean, first of all, the quality of water. That in Split and Dubrovnik we don't have water clouded every year for 20, 30 days so that people can't drink water from the plumbing, that the last modernization of the water pipeline in Split was in 1870 or 1890 and in Slavonia that people are poisoning us with arsenic from the plumbing. We can do this from EU funds but unfortunately Minister Dobrović is too slow and should be encouraged and speeded up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36990	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. And he's the first respected representative of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36991	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is a very important topic means Croatia's greatest potential is nature and from this nature and resources that arise and of course we must protect them by both education and implementation. Here we are listening here and in the last of the ministers, from former Minister Maras of Parliament to a number of attacks on Minister Dobrovic, so here today 2 billion kuna, the commission has declared a strategy for water protection, this is also from Osijek, to Istria, numerous projects of Sinj, numerous projects that have entered, meaning the protection of our rivers, tributaries and nature itself and mainly water. It would be much better not to justify the current ministry and its work, but the fact is that what came out in the media that the minister warned all the ministers and all the ministries to speed up the processes, i.e. all procedures which are necessary for EU co-financed projects and that this has come out on purpose. And not only that, but when we look at the Ministry of Energy and the Environment of the LNG Terminal, which, with 200m euros, is funded from EU funds, it is forgotten to say but it is true. When we talk about nature protection, as it is said, the sea is meant from education to the very conduct of nature. The fact that many associations, i.e. more individuals in their many areas are essentially protecting nature much more than the organisational services that exist on the ground, and that is one of the major problems, means the networking of those who have certain interests to destroy nature from those who protect them. So that's one commitment and we see how much damage they've done. Like what? Today, when we talk about our waters as a key resource in Dalmatia, then we should think about the protection of the debris, nothing would be new because Slovenia did. The law on the protection of infringements would protect Europe's largest water tank. So one strategically important, the most important strategic potential, which is water, we have to protect. And because of that, when we observe Lecevic and other dumps in the area should be so much, we need to be so careful that drinking water is not threatened and we see that because of the construction, digging in the karst area, in the hinterland of Split, i.e. The Dalmatian Zagora today has an impact on the Adriatic, on the river Jadro where the Splits literally have to drink during certain periods of water that is clouded. We have a number of rivers that we have to protect throughout the meaning of the plum, throughout the Dalmatian plum, mostly a cross that literally without protection will be the most dangerous thing to lose our waters. It would be much better if the former minister, here when you're already talking to the former ministries, hadn't dealt with moving into an elite building, which has caused a huge burden and huge money is given to renting that space, which is what Minister Zmajlović has done, so we have now and ours, the current minister must hold that rent for 2 years in that elite building which is huge costs and that he's been dealing with projects, and here I will repeat today 2 billion kuna is being awarded to numerous projects at the level of cities from Slavonia to Dalmatia as special strategic projects for the importance of the Republic of Croatia, and this is mainly the preservation of water from Osijek to Vukovar, Sinja, in Istria of certain, Rijeka seems to me, meaning 2 billion kuna today from EU funds are going to be in the government, i.e.e. The decision-making committee on strategic projects. So, it's a little bit about nature, and I agree with everyone here, because that's all we have, that's our potential, that's what we need to protect, so I'm going to remind you again of what happened from my experience. So since 2007, we've had an empty miner in the Cetina region and then a certain mob group that I once called because I led the long-term protests, the industrial cost, they wanted to put off in that miner by breaking all the rules in mining. So when you start a mining project, you're obliged to have an elaborate recovery project. They were going to use the Cetina River, the long-war industrial cost, the Split Ironworks, the TLM Spanish, and here you see in Biljani what it looks like when you go down that hill of black. And then the citizens hired not to postpone that waste, i.e. This garbage that would endanger the Cetina drinking river and thus endanger 500 thousand people who drink and use it daily in their households would, of course, endanger flora and fauna and endanger citizens' health. For six, seven years, this battle against the Ministry of the Environment has lasted. The Ministry of Environment has ordered certain criminal groups to be rehabilitated, to resuscitate with the spending along the Cetina River. There was all this, trials, detentions, protests that only after these numerous actions would the Ministry of Environment give up and eventually confess. So they didn't raise their citizens and didn't call the ministry and admit their mistake. About how much the ministry cares about the environment, how much it has cared about the environment in previous mandates so far. We know that Slaven Dobrović is an expert and that it is his primary mission and life mission that man is one of the most professional people in protecting nature and the environment and therefore there is no doubt that he will do anything to protect nature. We have huge problems, we have Slavonski Brod, we have problems in Slavonia where water is poisoned, of course these are problems, and it is up to us to protect nature professionally and qualityly because of future generations and of course to use EU funds. And once again, I will repeat what my colleague Maras said earlier, that the minister warned Dobrović that she had warned all ministers and, of course, it is good that whoever runs that portfolio warns ministers of the deadlines, that the deadlines of the Euro Funds should be met, but of course, the most attacks of Minister Dobrović are being made, because he does not favour as Minister Zmajlovic and the rest of the waste mafia as in the case of the Long War, but the man is an expert and he is fighting for the protection of nature. Less is a politician that's a fact, but that a professional person can't deny it. And we need to highlight these two billion kunas for LG 200 million euros for LG Terminal, we need to highlight today 2 billion kunas for water protection for numerous projects across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's not enough. And I hope that we will all bring together the best regulations, but that will be implemented on the ground to protect the greatest potential, these are our natural resources, and mainly water protection and all other flora and fauna in the entire Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36992	Thank you. We've got more replicas. It is the first to be respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36993	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, here I had no doubt that you would say anything about this subject as well as all the topics so far, so please answer this question, and I also refer it to the Secretary of State, and it is about funding the money of the National Park Krk by order, under the directive of Minister Dobrovic of the private company... for joint advertising. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know. I don't think this is one precedent for a minister's order. There's a file, a private company pays a million kunas of state money, it's a little bit illogical. Tomorrow, the same minister will order HEP to pay someone a million kuna or a fifth firm under his authority. So these are things that aren't allowed. Here's an explanation for Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Mir Bulj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36994	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36995	I don't know what you're nervous about, I've run a lot of environmental actions, of course I'm not perhaps the most competent to speak, but I know I live in nature and I'm going to protect nature, and you... as some man who has any activity. Here you have near you in Biljani hill from TLM's black cost industry that pollutes your end. You have problems in Sibenik I have not heard you fight except here what you call a voice, and you know that the professional person is Mr. Dobrović. And of course, as a parliamentary representative, I've filed criminal charges against the waste mob, against concessions, you've never taken it, and I'm sorry that you resent the parliamentary deputies. You are such a non-democratic person that you think you are the smartest, your activities are not recognized first in your area, and your attacks on a parliamentary representative that points out any problem you should praise, should not be right. So I commend this problem of yours for saying, and I would ask you to go to the competent institutions of BUSKOK, DORH and report this case if it is illegal. You'll never do that if you're just not created because you're more for a list of 1% to be a coalition partner with someone who's 30 and to join the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36996	Thank you. Here you go, pal. You've reached out to something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36997	Thank you. Dear colleague, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I apologize for this, but one extremely difficult charge has just been made against Minister Dobrović's account, which includes the elements of the crime if it is true what a respected colleague Zekanovic was saying, which is why we are looking for a ten-minute break so that the SDP's club can consult and see how he will react to these situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36998	I will, of course, grant you a break because it is usual to approve a break, but such statements from various sides, including most often from the SDP towards the HDZ towards the MOST, were no longer required. But if you're happy and I see that the cameras are here so obviously that's the reason for the pre-election period. Of course I approve ten minutes at 12.10 I'll meet you then. It's 11:00.59.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u36999	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS]] The SDP representative club has requested a break. On their behalf will be the representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37000	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and here's a thank you to the MPs and MPs for having responded in such a large number when they heard we asked for a break. Because what we're about to say now falls into something that's not allowed by laws or morals. In a debate shortly before this break, MP Zekanovic also warned with words that he also had documentation on the case, he warned that Minister Slaven Dobrovic had ordered the Krka National Park to pay a million kuna for advertising to a private company. It is not the minister's job in the Croatian government. This is a serious crime of trade in influence and we expect Mr Zekanovic if he has such documentation to submit his application to the State's Attorney's Office and to file a complaint to the Committee for the conflict of decision of the Republic of Croatia, pardon the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest of the Republic of Croatia. These are things that should not happen in Croatia. It's something that requires responsibility both political and criminal. Obviously, if these claims by Mr Zekanovic are correct, it is obvious that Minister Slaven Dobrovic is far more efficient in such actions than he is effective in withdrawing funds from EU funds, as warned by Minister Žalac as the weakest, as the weakest link in the government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. Please, everyone here, of course, is the most responsible person who can't hear this, but someone will probably pass it on to him. Here I would ask the president of the HDZ club Mr. Bačić, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Andrej Plenkovic to deal with this case and to examine whether it is true that ministers in his government are giving orders either to public or to companies or to public institutions or other companies, whether they are giving orders to pay de facto public money, money from Croatian taxpayers. Please, Mr. Bačić, check this with Prime Minister Plenkovic, and we expect Mr. Zekanovic to report to the Committee for Conflict of Interest and the DORH if he has documentation for this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37001	I'm asking you to turn it on if you're going to say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37002	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST club, so it's because of a statement by representatives of Zekanovic and this stop by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37003	According to Article 248, there was no obstacle to seeking a break, but on the other hand there was the possibility to request a break at the time when it was requested by Mr Peja Grbin. Are the parliamentary deputies agreeing to be approved? Okay? Representative Miro Bulj or Nikola Grmoy? Agent Nikola Grmoy, please be my guest. You have five minutes. If there were no other demands, I'd go to the polls after this. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37004	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So, a colleague of Zekanovic's had a few days ago, so for the purpose of local elections, this is an inappropriate step. It was a fellow Maras who welcomed him to accuse Minister Dobrovic, although he had nothing to do with this. There's a colleague, Kleman, who is well aware of this project by the Ministry of Tourism. And a few days ago, a statement was sent, meaning assistant nature protection minister who reacted to visiting counterpart Zekanovic, meaning who accused Minister Dobrovic here. So it's about unfounded calls aimed at attracting attention before the local elections. As far as these charges are concerned, something the minister has ordered to pay off to the private company Ryanair, it has nothing to do with it. It is that in December 2016, a meeting was held with Minister of Tourism Gary Cappeli and Croatian Tourism Community Director Ratomer Ivčić, who presented the initiative, which is the initiative of the Ministry of Tourism, that it is of exceptional importance that public bodies that are under the Ministry of Environmental Protection join the initiatives of the Ministry of Tourism for Joint Advertising on the Ryanair platform. So it is not an initiative that was falsely accused by counterpart Zekanovic, Minister Dobrovic, but by the tourism ministry's initiatives to advertise on the Ryanair platform. So the tourism ministry, yeah. So it's a project involving the Ministry of Environment at the Ministry of Tourism initiative. So you accused an honorable man of ordering something. I would ask you to apologize to the Minister of Environmental Protection Slaven Dobrovic during today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37005	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37006	Thank you, Mr. President. Since you've given your colleagues the opportunity to manifest themselves at Mr. Maras' break, I'm asking you to allow us at the HDZ Club to take note of the allegations of both colleagues of Maras and colleagues of Grumoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37007	If he can, I'd like to ask one thing before I approve, if there isn't, or if there's someone else who's interested to report immediately so that we don't go from one address to another address. Is there anyone else interested besides Zekanovic? It doesn't exist. Then I'll do it, then I'll consider it definitive. After this, I would like to ask what MP Zekanovic has also said that after that, we should really go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37008	Dear comrade Grmoya, here I am very sorry that you are visibly upset by you and your colleague Bulj. Yeah, well, it doesn't matter now, okay. It was not an emergency for me to attack as a person of Minister Dobrović. I'm not talking about the person, I'm talking about the works. So there's always a difference between the person and his actions. I'm talking about the fact that we're currently funding joint advertising in an independent private company that's working with Ryanair. This joint advertising is contracted by the city of Zadar Tourist Board. The city of Zadar and most local self-government units in Zadar County stand out, now I'm going to say wrong about 10, 10 million kuna for joint advertising. The money was missing, a million kuna was missing, which was raised from the National Park Krk's money under the directive, according to Minister Dobrovic's orders. And those are the facts. And here you have called me wicked and false, I will not call you such. But I'll blame you for one other thing. Every replica of you, every speech from this stage, every address from that place is purely pulsism. That's what you're dealing with. You've been thinking about a local campaign for the last few months. And you have the nerve to call me that this was done, that this was said for the purpose of the campaign. And every move you make, every act of yours, every gesture of yours. It's exclusively for that. [[I'd like to ask you not to replicate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37009	Agent Nikola Grmoy! I'm asking you not to replicate from your post. Thank you. We're continuing with a preliminary paused debate. I would ask the MPs to take a break before, however, because you have many issues to open in this debate, to stay and continue to participate in the debate on this subject. Replication to the presentation of representatives of Bulja Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37011	Here we go with the replicas of the presentation of the esteemed representative of Bulj. And the first reported to Tomislav Klaric, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37012	Dear fellow Bull, here's the meeting room calmed down so I can replicate. So in your debate, you mentioned the criticism of the former Ministry of Environmental Protection, you spoke about Minister Dobrović and the current situation in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I will not give criticism to the former, nor to the first, nor to the present, but to the appeal that the Ministry of Environmental Protection will finally begin to deal with what is written by him in the name of his ministry – the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And that's what I'm saying in a particular case because I've already personally referred to hundreds of applications, demands I don't know what kind of inspections, criminal charges to the work of Rijeka's port of scattered cargo in the Bay of Bakar. The port, which Minister Dobrović knows, the ministry knows, all inspections are done without any devastation fecal sewers, works on inadequate facilities, pours the miner on the seashore, asks the city, and we have proven this by measuring the floating particles that the city has financed and no one is doing anything. And we have a ministry called the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And do I need to talk here at the council benches about this problem that's obvious, visible from outer space? And we finally need to discuss it more in a way that is concrete, pointing their finger to the problem and stopping it. And there's a model and there's a tool. If someone wants to do dirty work, then let them deal with all the possible protections that exist in this world or we forbid it to work because the damage to the sea, to the environment, to human health in my city is so irreparable, and no one is doing anything now or former ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37013	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37014	Everything you've said is signed... and so should you fight for your end, and the Ministry of the Environment must be the Ministry of the Environment no matter who the Minister is and I fully support you to protect your fellow citizens from the dangers they may pose to health and the environment and nature. Have you heard now the gentleman who is essentially the mayor and who knows the theory, it is the Ministry of the Environment and I absolutely support this not replica of you but cry out from the parliamentary representative for his end, as they have the same cry people who are fighting for the threat of our water resources in the Dalmatian Zagora area in the case of Lečevica is still going to come back to us in a glass of water. Therefore, the minister is a human expert and he knows that in case any ecological disaster occurs on Lečevica that will be threatened exclusively by the main potential of water resources that will return to us in a glass of water if we do not look after nature. And this initiative that you've just mentioned, Mr. Secretary, you've heard this, the tribune to stop the destruction of our shores endangering health, sea, it's a disaster. If a man has given this to all the competent services, and no one has done anything, the ministry does not serve the purpose of protecting the environment and the health of our people. nature and future potential for our future generations. I fully support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37015	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37016	Thank you very much. Mr Bulj, in your replica, you spoke about the efficiency of Minister Slaven Dobrovic in withdrawing funds from the EU. I'll just tell you what Mrs. Grief wrote to Mr. Dobrovic. In all segments of the European funds, she has seen problems and delays. For example, to invest in water supply systems where we can solve the problem and clean water in Slavonia and muddy water in Dalmatia where we have a billion euros at our disposal, 10 projects were to be launched all last year, and only two have been prepared. In the first three months of this year, there should have been 10 calls for projects, and only one was published, we have 475m euros available for waste, too, not even a hodogram of activity and everything late. And its conclusion in the memo is said Minister Zalac, we are facing an alarming lack of project preparation, also for the disaster prevention sector more concrete defence than the floods for which the EU is giving us 215m euros. So all the segments are covered, I read you what the lady wrote. So this is not all the ministers, this is what the lady wrote to Slaven Dobrovic and warned him specifically about the problems that can be read in one sentence. Unpreparedness and I am not talking about his professorship and expertise in environmental protection, but obviously, in European funds, he is very weakly withdrawing funds, or there is a very slow situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37017	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37018	You, as the most successful minister of your colleague Maras, have the right to say so, and I am sorry that you have come out because how much you have drawn funds from eu funds we see that Croatia has moved forward. I'm sorry, I'm repeating again what he said was false. Minister Žalac warned all ministers and it is her right and she is running that resort, but the fact is that today three billion kunas for projects has been allocated from the eu funds for water protection. So we have from the far south to Slavonia many projects that will protect the plums of our rivers and threaten the water we use for everyday purposes. I can see that fellow Maras also mentioned floods, so of course there were floods like in Gunja during the term of office when they were there was this accident, but it's known who was in charge and who were the personnel. We know that the ministry was the only thing that worked during Mr. Zmajlovic's time I was sorry about that, that was a lot of warning from former representative Miss Holly, the only thing he did was move into an elite building of the entire ministry, and now it's a burden for another two years and a minister of the present, and it's huge costs. If this were to be invested in the protection of nature and the expertise and competence that Mr. Dobrović has, it would certainly have moved a lot of things and would have been a more preserved nature. And he forgets his colleague Maras while they were giving wind power plants into the renewable energy source for foreigners to cremate this natural beauty and wind and to pay in billions of kuna, that the Ministry of Environment and Energy over a billion and a half kuna for LNG Terminal attracted funds from eu funds plus today three billion. I think a lot, a lot more has been done by Mr. Maras's most successful minister, perhaps by commercials he had on TV with wheels of everyday pay from the HTV ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37019	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37020	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj. You've been talking about water protection as well as airy defending your environmental minister, but I'd like you to tell me what your opinion of hydraulic fracture is, and do you even know what it is? This is one method of infamous extraction of gas and oil in a world of civilised prohibitions, mostly put on the moratorium in the EU, and in Croatia it is legally used as a response from the Ministry of the Environment to as many as 154 wells. So it's that, by means of a drill at a depth of 3km of pump about 400 tanks of water, it means 28 million liters of clean water enriched with 600 chemicals, and that these chemicals crush so-called underground layers and then these same chemicals remain in the ground with the possibility of entering groundwater, i.e. the water we use for drinking, watering, gardens, vineyards, etc. So, do you think it is good that such a method exists in Croatia and how well you are informed about it and will you be busy through your Minister Dragonovic to do something about it, or are we following examples of those countries that we love to compare with so often? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37021	Thanks will be answered by the distinguished representative Bulj, I just have to correct you, not Minister Zmajlovic now the minister, one of the other ministers is, although we often mentioned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37022	Lapsus... I agree with you, if anything threatens nature, mostly underground, and even extracting oil that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm the opposite, but I'm not an expert in competence and I'm not as familiar as you are. And my activities while I was an ordinary citizen, as a councilman in the city of Sinj with my list I always fought for the entry into the nature of these unverified or even verified methods where nature would only be used as an exploitation field crash now has a thermoelectric power plant on Peru where it threatens... I'm against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I used to be often because of these activities of my own when these environmental experts said it was all clean, neat, when they threatened the river Cetina, the health of people, I knew, I've been brought in a lot of times even, tried and eventually I'm always free and as a man ordinary, means no expert on this. And certainly if that is true and the fact I am in this case on the side that such a way to stop because the more important nature of all oil fields has Croatia. So to preserve nature, that's the most important thing and that's what we all have to fight together for the future, for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37023	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37024	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, I truly understand your concern for environmental science, environmental protection, and I am very pleased to see that and likable. Here at one point, you said through your exposure that we should prevent Lečevica from being affected by the pollution of the source of the river Jadro. When you mentioned Jadro, then you know I'm as sensitive as you are to my end, so am I. And then it was supposed to be and I'm going to do it, so it wouldn't be because of any or political points or which, at this pre-election time, now until the end of the panic among citizens tell the truth to the end. So it's Jadro, or Lečevica is in the fourth safety belt. And here at the request of Minister Dobrovic and the ministry is again on 10 March 2017 for the 17th time cast paint in the karst area. And I have to tell you that today, I'm saying this more for the public, I believe that you know, here, after 42 days today, nothing has appeared not only in the Adriatic but in all the nine sources that have been analyzed so far and requested in all nine of them has not appeared. That's why it's good, no matter what I know, it's a pre-election time that everyone in some way wants to score, but it works, so that no one amongst the citizens because of that one political point has caused some kind of panic because of the precise way of detecting the problem, then it's a good thing that I am, to explain this. We have a big problem and these are illegal dumps all over the county I would say throughout the Republic of Croatia and that is one problem that must indeed be addressed both local environments and regional environments but also the Ministry of Environmental Protection. For the sake of the public I say Jadro after 42 days and not only Jadro but also the other 8 springs did not appear the color that was poured in on 10 March 2017. Which means that, and I have to say that in the high water regime, it's important to emphasize because under that regime it's supposed to be this area tested for the first time now. And for the sake of the public, it's good for them to know that even if environmental associations don't mess around, some of the members of the ecological society don't hang out at night in the baptism area and who knows what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37025	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37026	Comrade Boban, I just said clearly and loudly that it should have both Slovenia and other countries, means to pass the Law on the Protection of Breaks. We know that the debris, mainly the Dalmatian Zagora, does not matter whether the tributary of the river Jadra, Cetina or underground waters, is that they are closely connected and that karst areas are the devastation of the soil. It's very, very dangerous and we need it urgently here, I think, it's the main potential and resources, no matter what many of those who should have done Karepovac as former Split authorities, the Split-Dalmatia County who had money and who knows where they spent it. That should be asked mayors, former mayors, mayors, not spent where he is. But the karst area is ugly, they're down below so they're water. So just, why, why was Jadro clouded? Because of the uncontrollable exploitation of our nature, digging, various ways. Let me tell you something, here, let me give you a brief explanation. In Sinj, the man was a shepherding man, and he wanted to make a mini milkmaker for his family. The Ministry then sent him an environment three years ago for the milkman,... sonny, so far away from the Adriatic itself, he wouldn't let the milkman put the milk cheese on the river Jadro and here we're talking about a regional dump. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not an expert like you, you have all this information, but I know that we're trying to protect mainly in the karst area, and that's what Slovenia did. It's the law of one. The thermal power plant near the Peruca River with only Lake Peruca. It's a disaster. Our wealth is water. If we're not aware of that, if we work like this concession on Brač, then it's a disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37027	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37028	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. For the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, conservation of nature and human environment is one of the highest values of our country's constitutional order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution explicitly specifies the right of citizens to a healthy environment. The third article thus determines that citizens of state, public and economic bodies and associations are obliged, as part of their powers and activities, to pay particular attention to the protection of human health, nature and the human environment. So the right to a healthy environment is one of the assumptions of the right to a healthy life. And what the state does according to its national mildness is that nature and its wealth, therefore they certainly are. The existing system of legal protection of the environment is abundant in mutually non-compliant regulations that very often change and very often find it difficult to deal with professionals who deal with this area, let alone will it not be difficult for citizens who are dealing with essentially amateur environmental protection. We have a Croatian national portal register of environmental pollution, we have a browser for environmental pollution registers. So, public registers that are publicly available which is for every commendation. Yet they are not sufficiently transparent, they do not contain all data and numerical indicators which actually brings question, purpose and purpose to their existence. So it's necessary for them to improve. It is necessary to improve horizontal and vertical cooperation between all institutions dealing with environmental protection in cooperation with citizens' associations, with civil society. It is necessary to introduce a mandatory assessment of the protection of the impact on the health of citizens and the criteria for the calculation of environmental damage. It is necessary to re-arrange and strengthen the procedures of environmental impact assessment, design of elaborates and studies, and to improve the work of inspections. It is necessary to improve and strengthen timely and accurate ensure that citizens participate in environmental procedures in accordance with the Archdiocese Convention in a timely manner. These are necessary steps, for we treat our goods badly. We are being devastated by the Plitvice Lakes National Park, seams are collapsing, reconstruction is taking place, the threat of the Plitvice Lakes National Park being removed from UNESCO's list. If nothing happens, if no policy changes are launched, we will be threatened by other national parks and other protected areas. The problems are numerous, we could just dial them up, I mean, all day long. Each of us MPs certainly has a number of examples of which will list some specific individual problems. I'll just mention the woods, their uncontrollable memories. In the area, therefore, the protected area of Petrova Gora, once called the Iron. The iron means the forest. A third of those woods disappeared, visited and untied, became a source of profits instead of protection. A fellow Boban mentioned illegal dumps just now. So in our nature we have examples of ecocids. I think we should even consider introducing ecocids as a criminal offence. The local community's awareness of these problems is strong. The citizens of this problem are aware of their local environments and we must not underestimate it or underestimate it. More than 50% of the local referendums held were subject to the exact state of nature and human environment. Citizens said so about the construction of thermal power plants, wind power plants, the construction of landfills, chemical plants, and so it is important that we approach this issue in a sense, without pulsism, to discuss, that we call the minister without malice. The minister is the first man of the ministry. He's every minister who behaves his duty. He is as the first man objectively responsible for the situation in his vault, therefore without subjective responsibility. And that is why it is important that when we discuss this issue, we pay attention when we discuss the next item of the agenda, which is the Strategy and the Nature Protection Action Plan for 2017-2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37029	Thank you very much. I especially thank you for these last words, because I think we've spent several hours today on something that's not about the subject. The topic is all to remind us of the State of Nature Report in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2008 to 2012. Not thirteen, not fourteen, not fifteen, not sixteen, not at least seventeen. So let me remind you what we're talking about right now. We have two replicas. He's the first to be honored representative of Allen Preleca, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Milosevic, I agree with what you're saying. Environmental concern is our common concern, and we all need to support the ministry when it comes to this, and especially about water protection. We all have very many examples in our immediate and further surroundings where we are insufficiently concerned about nature and water. But I'm going to say a few words of what concerns me as well as protecting nature, but we're doing literally huge obstacles to getting an environmental license multiple times. Namely, I have concrete examples of when it takes years for an environmental permit to obtain a recycling yard. Especially in my local self-government unit, we've been waiting to build a recycling yard for two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37031	You're really the opposite of what I was saying right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37032	.../Speakers speak at the same time./... That's what Milosevic was talking about. I'm appealing and I'm taking advantage of the opportunity when our secretary of state is here to cut these things down, that some bureaucrats are an obstacle to the public interest, as well as the recycling yard, but as far as the embankment is concerned. We have examples where the environmental license is not obtained for the rash, and we have a harmful impact of water and events are just flooding because we haven't been granted a license to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for years, and here I am talking about it, and I think it's a subject and it's a common concern for the environment and water. And here's an appeal from the esteemed secretary of state that this is exactly the kind of example that we're not putting into a situation where the environmental license has been a hindrance to some projects for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37033	The answer if it can be called the esteemed representative Boris Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37034	Dear colleague, I can agree partly with you, you've linked environmental protection concerns to our administration's problems. I have said in my statement that the legal system of environmental protection is abundant in a number of non-compliant regulations that have often been changed where experts find it difficult to cope, so officials dealing with this area are then, of course, difficult for citizens who also apply for a variety of permits. It is difficult to understand and understand why they have to wait for some environmental protection permits for up to two years. It is a problem for the government and the resolution ministries to comply with the rules to meet entrepreneurs, and yet to protect the environment, so to find that acceptable measure of environmental protection, while at the same time facilitating investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37035	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to look back on one of your findings, or one appeal, that we do not need to unargumentally attack the ministers or ministers in this particular case of the Secretary of State, etc. because indeed here today in this debate, and just before the start of the vote, we had in my deep opinion, and by what I know, an unargumented excessive fire, I would say in this way, given that Minister Dobrović was called to illegally force the management of the Krka National Park to approve a million kunas for joint advertising to a private company. First of all, I would refer to a private company, I think that a good part of our representatives hasn't come out of ethics, we still have a problem with private property and ownership, if we know that there's a large majority of private-owned companies in the West, so I don't think it should surprise our representatives that that's the case. On the other hand, the fundamental ignorance of the functioning of the arrival of tourists in the Republic of Croatia is the cause of what today was in some way on the agenda without the agenda. It must be known that the airport is the strongest... the company that brings tourists to the Republic of Croatia and the heavy burden is right at the Airport in Zadar where most of the costs are currently borne by Zadar County and the city of Zadar. Filming of the Ministry of Tourism coming to the airport and later dispersion according to destinations, we have come to the realization that a large part of our national parks is also coming to our national parks, with national parks today collecting the biggest fees of tickets, and not participating. Absolutely in financing that traffic. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37037	Thank you very much. Indeed, Ryanair has nothing to do with 2008 to 2012. I would now ask for the next individual debate, and that is the distinguished representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37038	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues. I hope he doesn't mind me, and I'm gonna have to do a little bit about the airport, actually. Okay, I'm gonna have to do a little bit. You won't blame me for it. [[I'd like to ask you not to.]] But before I go on about it, I've already referred through several replicas to several problems about the system of nature protection. I said the problem of the internal order rule, the professional backgrounds that don't exist. Here's when I've been arguing around people texting me, so for example. I got a text message to say something about an uncontrollable cutting of the forest on the Žumberak Mountain which is also a nature park around St. Gera where the based phenomenon, and that's where the forest threatens. I received a message to point to the problem of Kamenolom Vukovac at the entrance to Sibenik where there is a quarry, where there is also a stone in a real location that is not suitable and damages the health of citizens and the Sibenik quarter. All I have to say is every sentence or word about Lečevica. Lečevica is a planned waste management centre, and is located in a place that is not acceptable for the people of Sibenik-Knin County. And now here's what I need to do about Ryanair first of all to my esteemed colleague, Kleman. I'm glad he got involved in this one reasoned way in the debate, so I'll try, so I hope that through one replica, we'll give some information to the public as well. I am pleased that Ryanair is operating in Croatia and I am glad that passengers are coming to Zadar airport and that they are also moving dispersively in Sibenik-Knin County later. I am saying this, I must stress only from the position of MPs, not only but from the position of representatives coming from Sibenik-Knin County and Krka is a river located in the county and Krka and the town of Sibenik are extremely connected. It's that string that's very hard to explain to someone outside of Sibenik-Knin County. Today, when the city of Sibenik's economy is on its knees, projects in sport and culture can be financed unfortunately in a very small way. One way is by means of state money through the Krk National Park, which he did. Unfortunately, here we now have one situation where this sport and culture are being financed less and less and on the other hand we have a situation where one huge money for the Sibenik opportunities of a million kuna is being placed in the neighbouring Zadar County. I have to say that this was the original motivation for me at my inauguration, that this one injustice that seems to be according to the Sibenik-Knin County that it was, was what prompted me. But I still have to say here, passengers come to Zadar Airport because they're attracted to some attractive factors. It may be the Sibenik cathedral, it may be the Zadar cathedral, it may be the town of Trogir as a UNESCO protected locality and it may be the Krka National Park. You could drink upside down and say, so maybe the Zadar port should pay the Krka National Park or it could finance the airport that the passenger comes even more because no one comes for the company but comes for a thorough phenomenon. I told you already in 4 hours and now I'm going to tell the whole public in Osijek he was driving an airport so when he stopped driving, alternative companies came as if I'm not wrong, EasyJet, Eurowings and so on. There's a lot of talk here, and there's a lot of talk about it if the airport leaves Zadar that they'll go to Split. For me, as residents of Sibenik and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is not a matter of whether he will work from Split or Zadar. And from what I understand in Split, it wouldn't be a co-financing problem. Furthermore, we still need to know this thing, it's an airport that's partly state-owned, it's really part state-owned, 45% state-owned, 45% local and regional self-government. Here's what I'm going to figure out. Here, I'll cut it real short. [[You're talking half your time on the airport, I said in advance, I'm asking you nicely not to,.../]] It was, it was and then [[/Upadica Reiner: We are talking about the period until 2008 to 2012 on nature protection. The airport wasn't at the time.]] He was, and then he was driving over to our place, if I'm not mistaken. [[So, I mean, he wasn't with us, that's what I mean, of course he was.]] Well, well, here's what I'm going to do, so I'm not going to talk about this. [[Intruder Reiner: Please focus on the topic.]] And nothing, then that would be all I have to say for now unless my colleague replicates, so I'm going to have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37039	Thank you. Here's the esteemed representative Kleman wants to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37040	Here's what I'm gonna do about the airport. So, my colleague Zekanovic, I really appreciate you both as a man and as a representative, but really when you're making a distinction from having no problem financing sports and technical culture with the money of the Krk National Park and having a problem doing joint advertising with the Croatian Tourist Community, where such beauty is given to the whole world, in this case through this company, so in all their brochures and on all their flights. So someone through that advertising says ha, here I will come to remind that beautiful country, among other things, the Krka National Park and to bring income to pay for that ticket and to participate in 100 million kunas of the income of the Krka National Park. So that has an incredible extravagant. And there's one more thing I'd really like to say to you where there's been a big, big storm about it, even the state's attorney's office, obviously that we're easy to handle with that institution, going over our mouths just like that, and calling people immediately to responsibility and closure, and I don't know what's wrong with it. You must know that Minister Dobrović has not ordered he cannot order the management of Krk National Park to give the money. This is a joint action, joint advertising on the well-being of the Krka National Park and Croatian tourism and in some way all private owners of hotel houses, campsites and everything else that provides accommodation in the Republic of Croatia, restaurants, cafes and everything else. So when we talk about something with full responsibility, we need to talk about it and on the other hand, we need to see a broader context why some action is launched. So I'm asking you to put those tensions down, we understand what this is about. If there's a problem, we can consult. That initiative started when I was a minister, so we could... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37041	Thank you. The honourable representative Zekanovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37042	Dear colleague Kleman, I've entered the subject in a very detailed manner. I don't speak for myself. I'm not running away from the campaign, this kind of topic being used in the campaign. This is where you talk about financing joint advertising. And in fact, you said yourself that the point is to pay for the empty seats of the airline. So if we are already talking about advertising it could be paid to the tourist community of Sibenik or the Tourist Board of Sibenik-Knin County to advertise Krka National Park and to find such one, means a way to satisfy perhaps...... But also because the point is not to pay for advertising but to pay for empty seats. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Kleman.]] So that's the difference. But here he is, so come on, thank you, Mr. Kleman, an esteemed colleague and so much... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37043	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37044	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's me on the report on the state of nature since '08. until '12. I welcome the representative of Mr. Shiljeg's ministry. Here means the State of Nature Report is the basis for the next point, i.e. for the strategy that we are going to bring. I have personally worked on all strategies in our area since 2012, meaning local levels, regional levels, and I work on those national ones. And that's how I'd like to go on this report. As far as this situation is concerned, which has been our problem and which may be a problem in non-disclosure of any situation on the ground, it means what can happen with the implementation of the strategy. As always, when it comes to a report yesterday on HERA, I always say what the situation is on the ground, and I'd say a little bit about people's perception of the state of nature and how they're experiencing all the measures and, say, specifically here and the ecological network of NATURA 2000. When the NATURA 2000 ecological network was developed, these were not local self-government units in our area. They don't even know what the NATURA ecological network means. You later give statistics here how many percent of people are even familiar with that notion and what problems we've been facing. So as far as this assessment of acceptability for the ecological network means the implementation of some projects, not only do people not know they have to, it means to make this assessment, but institutions that are responsible for the same did not know how they did it. Of course, it's not your fault. It's one situation, so a new situation where we all get along and we need not only people first, but we also need to educate the services that work with people, and they are implementing the measures that protect the NATURA ecological network. So here it's said that 36% of land territory and 16% of coastal seas include NATURA. It is said that knowledge of the concept in general is somewhat lower, so only about 5% of people in the Republic of Croatia know by research what the NATURA 2000 ecological network is. But what's crucial here is that 77% has never heard of that term. So not everyone has to hear it, but this area, which, meaning, includes the NATURA ecological network, must at least be in some kind of a ring to cover it. Here we had a situation in making a zip plan, not in the area of nature park, but the problem was that people don't even know they need to talk to someone, nor did anyone point them to it. What surprised me, too, in 2013 because I observed it, studied when we were developing a local development strategy for ten units of local self-government proposal that we then put NATURA into our strategy was quite different from that adopted proposal, meaning the NATURA network. Me too, personally, even though I was trying to find a reason why I couldn't find it like that. Furthermore, what I would refer to in point 4.10 of this report are the mechanisms for installing nature protection measures into other systems. So this is about a strategic environmental impact assessment. We really have problems in the field of understanding the concept of strategic environmental impact assessment and general impact assessments, environmental impact assessments. This means that at the level of the regulation adopted by the Government, it means by applying two directives. I know that at that level the Croatian Parliament does not decide, but it is very questionable how we have adopted that regulation and whether we can do everything we have prescribed here, whether we can carry out quality in each individual case if we are doing an environmental impact assessment. Then they came up, and of course we want to meet our budget, we want to reach the goals that we have foreseen that we will finance from European funds. But for certain projects, we need evaluations. Then the concepts emerged as an assessment of the need to make an environmental impact assessment. I think you're getting to know each other, and that's definitely something we should discuss further. We also need to let the public know that st5 difficult planning is just a wish set unless it's in line with spatial planning. When making strategic plans often when I went into spatial plans and watched as they were being brought in whether something we wanted to plan in space I encountered a misunderstanding to say, so you should deal with development, not spatial planning. And what is spatial planning? So we definitely need to think about it. And here you are on this page of 43rd, as part of the hunt, mentioning that a new plan of brown bear management has already been made. Here we have another plan, so wolf management in the Republic of Croatia has expired. No, this is page 43, so the State of Nature reports. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleagues Rosčić, but you are talking about a point that will just come.]] So a brown bear management plan has been adopted, but it's not mentioned here that the wolf management plan that needs to be brought forward in the future has expired, so we're hoping it'll be brought in but it's not defined here, it's not seen, I don't see anywhere written about the wolf. It means that no plan has been adopted, and he is indeed for cattlemen in this area for hunters and for everyone else is causing a problem. Not only that plan, but also the general inventory that is now being carried out, the way it's being done, the way it's being listed, the only wolf is not in line with what we're finding on the ground. I believe that both colleagues Klaric and everyone from other parts of the Republic of Croatia can confirm that. As far as I'm concerned, you mentioned education and information here. On the ground what we feel, and here you can really see in this state of nature in the Republic of Croatia, so the main shortcomings are the study programs dealing with nature protection. So they lie in a lack of interdisciplinary approach and absence, adopting certain skills necessary for professional work in nature protection. So, we have a lot of public institutions in our area, but we do start them, we hire people, but the question is, what do you see here is if we have anyone to hire here? And if we don't have the right fit, how do we even carry out nature protection? As far as access to information here is concerned, it is also clearly defined that the largest source of information is the website. The area protected from which I come most of these parts do not have access to the Internet at all so that it can be quality informed from the website. And if we want to protect nature, I think we should also protect the life of a man in nature. It is often the same that somehow does not understand clearly enough in the public as much as livestock farming and all other forms of human action are contributing to the protection of nature, so that this information will need to be increased. So, informing people in protected areas is even better than it is so far. And as far as public participation in the decision-making process is concerned, we have brought in 2009, as stated here in the Report, the Code of Consulting for the interested public. It states here that it has not yet been brought to life at national level, and is particularly problematic in the area of regional and local levels, and that it is being implemented in a slow and partial manner. Unfortunately, we have had such situations, people from the State Institute for Nature Protection from the Ministry of Environment come to the field there are a bunch of people, people from the other side who come as representatives of these institutions who have knowledge, but often manipulate that knowledge. For example. who, when illegally changing the boundaries of nature parks, convinced people so let's bring this spatial plan and we'll change those boundaries very easily. The first thing is that they shouldn't have changed those boundaries, the second thing is that it's literally lying to people on the ground because we all know that the process of changing the spatial plan is the same and it takes as long as the process of making a spatial plan. Here's what I mentioned, so as far as Nature's concerned, I'd like to say that implementation will not be a possible strategy unless we find tools to inform the field. If the terrain is not informed, the institutions are not informed, the right information does not come to the institution and we cannot know the real state of nature in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37045	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37046	Dear colleague Roscic, you said everything we prescribed. The fact is, we've gone a long way too crazy, and we haven't thought about the consequences of what it's going to mean in some kind of implementation. In order to strengthen this, I will mention just one concrete example, let's say that the local self-government unit that works and is not the strongest tool of spatial planning, urban plans and everything must be asked by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the county whether an environmental impact study is needed. It happens regularly that either one or another institution writes that it has to, and the other says it doesn't. Then it's up to the head of the local self-government unit to make that commitment whether it's going to work or not. And what's this about? you when you plan a spatial plan for a specific activity in the area, especially if it concerns entrepreneurship zones, industrial zones or others, you cannot know in advance which investor with which type of activity will come to a certain... preparation for this. I'm going to mention one last case here, and I've contacted the secretary of state recently, one of our competitions that are currently under way, asking that we have to have the Ministry's opinion on whether an environmental impact study is necessary. And imagine for what, for kindergarten. And now my people downstairs who have prepared the project documentation have to wait a month for the ministry to think whether an environmental impact study is necessary for what you might think for kindergarten. And let's just say it could easily happen that he's late for delivering the paperwork to the competition. So in a lot of things, we've freaked out a lot and we've simply stalled ourselves, and we've made it difficult to attract funds without even saying the realisation of projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37047	The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37048	Thank you. My colleague Klaric, my colleague Shiljeg is not up to it. What happens is that, on a proposal from various experts, we accept that we will protect something to the highest possible level. Of course, it's also business for those who suggest, who are experts, who work elsewhere. And on the other hand, we don't have a way to do it and what happens, then there's the administration. So when we see that we will not be able to implement European funds, we need to ask God how much to issue to a particular institution we have imposed these environmental impact assessments then some short procedures are moving, or by quick procedures, they are published daily. If you are comforted in the city of Omis, they have instructed them to check that they need an environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37049	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roscic, I see you've prepared well for this point. I'd like to ask you something about this report on nature protection in 2008-2012. I didn't see anything about illegal... and let's just say I'm special, illegal gravel. We don't really care what the impact on the environment and water is on this very illegal gravel. And I think unfortunately, and that's in my example, I'm the head of local self-government, and I see institutions don't do their jobs. In fact, we have a lot of, uh, a lot of these illegal gravel, but we're reporting to the police, but nothing's going on. In this report on the inspection of nature protection, there is no information on how much can be taken and how much is really taken on this subject. I'd like the information, here we have the secretary of state, how many really are these illegal people doing the gravel that are really being punished and what can we do exactly in that sense? It is also the protection of nature, especially the protection of water. I don't know if you're in this topic, so I'd like you to join this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37051	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37052	I thank you for the replica. I don't know if you're thinking about gravel as a gravel lift or I don't have a clue if it's not happening with us, but what happens is that there's a lot of enquiries when you feed the beaches, when there's some kind of drowsiness, if it's harming the environment. And then we were looking for which institutions might do an analysis because they're constantly talking about this sedation that's being collected at the bottom and probably the same effect and it comes out when the gravel rises, but there's no research at all. So often some topics that concern environmental protection are mostly made up of some perception of the public on the basis of some newspaper articles, and it is important whether we have institutions that could make the impact, and here I believe that the Secretary of State will answer whether there are penalties and how many applications there have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37053	Thank you. The next individual debate is that of a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the end of the debate that we had today, which was content and which was running its course and through an analysis of the state of nature in the period 2008-2012, but also touched on many problems related to the state and protection of nature and the environment, which we as responsible people should talk about and where we should help our citizens and future generations leave something behind. We have major environmental problems in general in the world. There is a Croatian signatories of certain agreements and we all support it together because global warming is one of the biggest problems. We have also seen some estimates of scientists who say that sea levels will grow by the end of the century. So we have to take it very seriously on that side. But we also need to act locally and microlocationally, and so here again I call on all those who are following this debate to report to the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection with their specific problems in the city, in the city. And you believe that we're going to go out and put pressure on ourselves like we did pressure and question the Ministry today and around Lomnica where hundreds of citizens gathered two days ago in joint concern about building a cement base and concrete store. Also in the Plan where people are concerned about what their beautiful place within the town of Trogir and Kaštela is used in a way that shouldn't be used where sometimes there's neglect about what a colleague and Dodig said before there shouldn't be such a large number of sites in one small place, there shouldn't be so many quarrys where even 13 and they're all doing them now, but the citizens of that place, the locals are concerned that they don't start new demands and that maybe tomorrow, in 5 or 10 years, another 15 exploitation fields are opened and that they have 30 quarrys of what they certainly wouldn't want and what the local infrastructure doesn't support. Because to see what local roads look like, how it all reflects the quality of our fellow citizens' lives. And when you see that it is also a touristly very attractive place all together, it leads you to the conclusion that such things should be avoided in the future. Here, if 13 is already open interest is and will be exploited for the next 20, 30 years, the interest is certainly locals there not to open a new one and not to continue to work that way. And for that reason, along with all these plans that we mentioned today, with 431 areas protected in the Republic of Croatia and almost 9% of the territory under some form of protection, means 9 national categories of protection and we worry about the preservation of nature and the environment, we must also think about these problems that unfortunately torture our fellow citizens daily. I have to say one more thing here now, since I was not aware of it in the debate I had previously had on behalf of the club and in certain replicas, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given an opinion on the law sent by the SDP Representatives' Club which should solve the problem of pollution and endanger the health of people in Slavonski Brod, unfortunately negative. So she gave her opinion negatively and explained it in a way that if oil transport is disabled that it should be well explained and that studies that would lead to the conclusion that this is a problem for our citizens' health. I don't really know what to say anymore, as if it wasn't in itself clear, as if hundreds of studies were already, not hundreds, but more studies weren't done, as if not several base stations that measure daily pollution in Slavonski Brod weren't enough to lead to the conclusion that in fact this refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina is causing a problem for Slavonski Brod and our fellow citizens. And then they added the argument that if we banned possible oil flow through the pipeline, then we'd have to go both on the road and on the railroad because we could get oil, and on the river, because then oil can be delivered that way. Well, of course, there's no problem, it needs to be extended to that extent if it's going, and it knows where the oil goes, and that's how it can be done, and that's the restriction, or I think our people's health should be in front of these excuses. And what particularly bothers me in that response is that the government has written that it is only being guided about the technical regularity of oil that could damage the facilities of the JANAF or the pipeline. On this side there is also a cold-blooded and uninterested government where care is taken, means about oil pipeline facilities, about JANAF, and there is no concern that air and production from the Bosnian Ship is polluted with this production and that our people unfortunately are ill and have a very low quality of life. And therefore, regardless of the opinion we received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I hope that the debate will be held soon on the Committee on the Economy, that in the next two weeks we will have this debate in the Croatian Parliament so that people can see that it is important and that we take care not to put it aside now and wait for the local elections to pass and that then, after the local elections, some unburdened opinion of the people in Slavonski Brod can reject the proposal smoothly. If they have the courage to turn it down before the local elections, then let people see then really who's been fighting for the problem and who's been pushing this problem under the carpet and who hasn't, unfortunately, been here for a long time. I don't plead guilty to any government, but the biggest responsibility of course is to the government which is currently in a position that can solve the problem. I can't deal with the government no more than four years ago or eight years ago because they're out of position. So now it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, led by Andrej Plenkovic and the Minister of Energy from the Most, Mr Dobrovic. So on the other hand, I just wanted to let the public know that we got this opinion today, that it's negative and that there's basically no concrete will to solve this problem as soon as possible. And if we put ourselves to the future, it's likely that these problems will be yet and we won't do anything and our people will be unhappy. There's probably gonna be more of these problems, and we're not gonna do anything and our people are gonna be unhappy. We talked today about water and projects I didn't. Absolutely, but when you watch the Report of Nature in 2009-2012, it is attached to the state of 2017. [[Upadica Reiner: Report on the State of Nature 2008-2012.]] Well, you can't separate it. We're in 2017 today. [[/Intruder Reiner: Of course and at 2030. I mean, I'm asking you to stick to the subject.]] It's impossible to separate. Well, the same arsenic problem we've had for years. And in 2012 water pollution arsenic is in certain areas in Slavonia because of such soil and because of the problems they have there. And if we now have a billion euros of European funds to solve this problem, I cannot mention it. And I'm sorry that Minister Dobrović is not more active and proactive, perhaps it would be better. This may be why Minister Žalac, who from Slavonia, has warned about the non-use of EU funds regarding environmental protection, especially when we talk about water, because she is like Slavonka aware of problems that are simply not quickly, but simply within a few years she can solve and where we can spare our fellow citizens the problems they have been struggling with for 20 years. And that's why I have to say that no matter what the topic formally remains in 2012, but since that debate, our fellow citizens wouldn't have had too much if we hadn't completed it with the current data and with what is bothering them at this point, no matter how much Mr. Bukarica was smoking. I see he's having trouble listening. It's your job, you'll have to deal with it. You will listen here to MPs chosen by the Croatian people. And as long as they want to talk, they're gonna talk about the problems that torture people. So I'd like to ask you, and I'm embarrassed to watch you get high right now. You understand? So I'm embarrassed to talk to you until I see that you're uninteresting and you say what this Maras is saying. Here. I think you presidents should, Vice President, react to such situations. But I hope it doesn't happen again in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37055	Thank you very much. This is why I said it. What you're saying actually fits the point that we're going to discuss. You'll probably do the same thing, you've repeated them five times today that we've all heard. They stand, of course. All you said stood, you repeated them five times like we all didn't understand. But well, you will probably repeat them again because we have this item on the agenda of the proposal for an action plan for the protection of the nature of the Republic of Croatia from 2017 to 2025 where this will have to be defined and where we expect it to be implemented The problem is that you were talking about things that were going to happen between 2008 and 2012. [[/Intruder Maras: Good and what's the problem?]] Well, good. But anyway... There is one replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Repeating is the mother of wisdom, so it's never enough to repeat some things. Well, fellow Maras, since you've already offered yourself as president of the Committee on Environmental Protection, here's exactly how much help I'm asking the relevant institutions to ask how many applications we've had for illegal gravel and how many concrete results we've had, but literally. I must say that my colleagues who are the same commissioners, the mayors are struggling with such problems. Unfortunately, the institutions are not working, this is now not about this government or any other government. We literally fight people like that, entrepreneurs who work, and there's nothing we can do. We're reporting. Those applications are in agreement there and nothing's going on. So specifically, if you can help ask the question, let's see how many applications and what's been solved. And specifically, what should we do about it, the mayors? How do you solve this problem? And what you were saying about air protection in Slavonski Brod, I am giving you absolute support that you as chairman of the commission are constantly asking the question, even if the vice president was stupid. A hundred times again. I can't even picture myself feeling like I'm living in Slavonski Brod and that my children, my three children, live near the Refinery in Slavonski Brod and that nothing has happened for decades. I think we should all wonder if we should let our children live on Slavonski Brod and do nothing, not before the left, not the right, not today, not tomorrow. Citizens simply, I think the only solution for them to move out of Slavonski Brod is to talk about that we don't have people in Slavonia or I don't know where. As chairman of the commission, I think we could do a lot of work here and talk about how we have to protect our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37057	The answer of the distinguished representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37058	Thank you very much, Mr. Prelec. This solution you have offered in the end is obviously the solution offered by the government. Of course we don't want to. We want to create decent living conditions for people, and you would not believe how many people contact and seek. Some of the people who are watching us right now asked me to mention both the Plano and the quarrys and that country where the shot was driven from the construction site of all the surrounding ones, and it was supposed to be olives and Slavonski Brod. And now I should say that because I'm going to be exposed to the criticism of President Reiner, I won't say. Well, I'm here for those people. I have to say it. I have to say it, you understand. [[No, I'm not any critic. I'm just saying that you've done the same thing five times. We understand and agree with your remarks.]] No matter what President Reiner warns me and makes it impossible for me to do so. I'm gonna keep my citizens talking all the time. Feel free to contact me with every possible route when the topic is like this, no matter what it is in 2012. I'll talk about your problem from that domain in 2017 because that's the point. The point is that people hear what the problems are now and that the report won't be because it's a micro problem and we have to mention it here. And that's why Mr. Prelac thank you for this idea of yours, and I'm going to forward this question to the Ministry of Economy Mines Administration because I said it during the previous debate, and I have a feeling that sometimes before he knows who's being controlled than he who's going out in the field as an inspector. So on the other hand, I think that it should pay particular attention because it's about mineral wealth, it can be an ecological problem, but there are a lot of things that are really cloudy like once the water that gets clouded after the rain in Dalmatia, unfortunately because we don't have adequate equipment in the water lines that can also be solved by European means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37059	Thank you. With this I would conclude the debate and we will continue the session on Wednesday 26 April at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of P.Z. Number 124. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 14.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-21-0.u37060	We continue with the vote. The first item is the Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012. Representative Vrdoljak, please refrain from commenting. I would like to ask the esteemed MPs, the esteemed parliamentarians and MPs and the MPs to approach the quorum check. I'm determining that we have a quorum, and that we can make a valid decision. For this first point, the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Report on the State of Nature in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 is hereby adopted." Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 111 votes for, 1 abstention and 3 against it, the conclusion was reached as suggested by the parliamentary parent committee.
