ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u38724	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking on behalf of the MOST Club for a 10 minute break, the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u38725	Okay. You got it. Is anyone else picking up? If not, the break is until 9:00 and 44 minutes. Yeah, maybe we should go right now if you are, so we don't take a break. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[Intruder Bull: 10 minutes break.]] Ten minutes, good. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:44 AM]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u38727	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. In light of yesterday's prime minister's behaviour in the Croatian Parliament who did not answer the questions of his colleagues Bulja and me but with high accounting with MOST and patronised him, but also in light of today's decision on arbitration, which was deeply compromised, from which Croatia withdrew after it was discovered that Slovenian representative at the arbitration court Sekolec and Slovenian Foreign Ministry staff Drenik agreed to carry out Slovenian arguments and lobbying with other arbitration judges. Namely, yesterday's behaviour and answers by Prime Minister Plenkovic are a continuation of a poor sub-data policy from Racan's time to HDZ's vote of the 2010 arbitration agreement, in which HDZ has agreed to the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations, rather than having adhered exclusively to international law. Unfortunately, the HDZ government then succumbed to Slovenian pressures to join the EU. Yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic asked his colleagues about the exclusive economic belt and the issue of where the negotiations or consultations with partners and neighbours were launched by the government at the first session of Plenkovic's government on the basis of the conditions of the Most, so it was 27.10.2016, the prime minister replied that, for a year without giving any answer in which the process of the consultation and what has been done so far had been done. On my repeated question about the exclusive economic belt and the finding that the prime minister and during the HDZ-MoST negotiations were against the declaration of an exclusive economic belt while he was much more prone to former Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Davor Ivo Streier, he replied, or reminded me of that, that I do not remember it because I was young as visited by Italian Prime Minister Cossiga on 16 January 1992 and gave us full support on our path to independence. So, in response, the prime minister sent a message that Croats do not have the right to an exclusive economic belt, although the European Commission recommended that Member States do so on 1 July 2013. The prime minister believes that out of gratitude from Italy, Croatians should allow the Italians to make uninterrupted use of our Adriatic, that we do not need to protect our seas and seas even though it is a recommendation from the European Commission but also our right. It is obvious that the decision on the consultations taken by the government was made under our pressure, it was only here to satisfy us somehow, that this deadline was extended for some year and that nothing was done about it. I would ask you here as Croatian parliamentary representatives what we, as Croats, will give thanks to the Turks, what are we going to give to the Austrians, what are we going to give to the Germans? I asked the prime minister yesterday. I asked him about the optical aggregate network, if he'd met Germany with our intention to build a network in his own arrangement. Are we going to give thanks to the Germans for building a aggregate optical network which is a matter of national security, a free market in which all operators will have equal conditions but also a lower price issue for our citizens or in light of these prime minister's answers and prime minister's policy, give Deute Telekom to build an optical network? To this question yesterday, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not answer and I think dear colleagues and colleagues that the time for a sovereign Croatian policy, a policy that develops relations with neighbours and with its partners and also a policy that leads exclusively, is taking care exclusively of Croatian national interests. We have made such a policy so far thanks especially to the HDZ governments but also to the SDP as we mentioned not, we have not. After yesterday, it is clear that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not intend to lead such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u38728	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Today, point 1 is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, the emergency procedure, first and second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42438	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, I want all of you, honourable MPs, distinguished MPs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Allow me to present the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, short-named CETA, between Canada and the EU and its Member States, on the other hand. CETA is a comprehensive agreement on trade and investment aimed at creating an international legal framework to strengthen trade and economic relations between the EU and its Member States and Canada. It is an international agreement of a mixed nature concluded by the EU and its Member States and Canada. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Agreement was signed by the Extraordinary and Authorised Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia as an independent representative of the Republic of Croatia, to the EU, on 30 October 2016. On 15 February 2017, the European Parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the CETA. After the completion of the internal acceptance procedure in Canada, the agreement will be applied temporarily. Canada is a close ally of Europe. The democracy with which we share the same values, culture and commitment to the open market and social policies. A comprehensive economic and trade agreement, I believe, will give new momentum to relations between the EU and Canada and their joint efforts at the world level, such as ensuring economic growth, and employment with the objectives of sustainable development and the prevention of climate change. In addition, Canada is an important economic partner of the EU, and the value of bilateral trade is almost 100 billion euros, of which around 87m euros are spent in Croatia, which is goods and services, which is from 2015. And direct investment in the EU exceeds 450 billion euros. Citizens and businesses on both sides of the Atlantic should soon enjoy the benefits of this agreement. Once CETA enters into force, almost all Croatian exports to Canada, customs duties will be released. In 2016, the trade between the Republic of Canada and the Republic of Canada amounted to 49m euros, of which 37m euros in exports from the Republic of Macedonia to Canada. This represents a growth relative to the year 2015 when the amount of exports amounted to 28m euros. Canada is the 39th trading partner of the Republic of Croatia. The key parts of Croatian exports to Canada are information and communication technologies. And electrical products that last year accounted for 1/3 of Croatian exports to Canada. At the current Canadian customs rate of 6.5%. Exports of medicines represent almost 30% of Croatian exports to Canada, and this sector already lacks customs duties will benefit from intellectual property provisions. Furthermore, a significant share of Croatian exports worth 2.7m euros have metals and minerals. At the current customs rate of 5.6% and furniture worth 1.6m euros with a Canadian customs rate of 15.5%. According to Canadian statistics, Croatia is its 52nd trading partner, and the largest Croatian products, export products are machinery and parts, metal products, mineral products, chemical and plastic products, as well as waffles and coats. The Croatian export of services to Canada amounted to 59m euros in 2015 and the most representative service sector in trade with Canada is tourism, ICT services, research and development services, etc. Canada's direct foreign investment in Croatia amounted to 3m euros in 2015. Thanks to EU membership and economic stability, Croatia has the opportunity to become an attractive destination for Canadian investment. With CETA, Croatia and European companies will be given a new opportunity in the Canadian market. EU companies will save more than 500m euros annually to the current cost of customs duties on industrial products exported to Canada. 98% of these savings will be immediately visible, since the suspension of customs duties is agreed on 97.7% of European products and 98.2 of Canadian products. CETA will improve access to the Canadian market for services and all sectors. Ensure greater mobility for employees of businesses and experts, and a framework for the recognition of qualifications, which is very important. This will make it easier for service providers to work in Canada and enable them to offer complementary services such as post-sale support, for example, machines that make up a large share of Croatian exports, thus increasing their competitiveness. The CETA provides for a framework to facilitate mutual recognition of qualifications in professions such as architects, accountants and engineers through the conclusion of additional agreements on mutual recognition of qualifications between the EU and Canada, in which of course Croatian interests will be represented. Copyright, trademarks and product design is an important category for products and every protection will ensure Croatian products from counterfeits and their trade on the Canadian market especially for medicines and pharmaceuticals, which is important for Croatian exports since they still represent an important export product in Canada. It will enable the removal of actually technical barriers to trade that will improve transparency and encourage cooperation between the EU and Canada in the field of technical regulations relating to standards, testing, certification and accreditation to reduce costs for economic operators. CETA and this should be stressed is not concluded because of multinational companies. They are already present today on the EU market, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. Small and medium-sized enterprises that are an important employment generator and represent more than 90% of registered companies in the Republic of Croatia will have greater opportunities to export to Canada because of the specific provisions of the CETA which are specifically intended for them. I would especially like to stress here that the CETA will not compromise the fundamental European interests and standards, and with the application of the CETA, we have the following: 1. A sensitive agricultural sector will be protected because Canadian export products will be offered limited quotas or they will retain customs duties. And yesterday we had a question, I think that you asked, you had a representative question for the prime minister, so here I would especially like to highlight it here. 1. It will retain the right to maintain public services and Member States will only be able to decide on their own systems of health care, education, water supply, etc. 1. It will continue to apply its own standards on goods and services sold in European countries, such as those applicable to food, clothing or cars. 1. The products that Canada imports, exports to the EU must comply with all EU rules, and these rules continue to be passed by European legislators according to European procedures or European regulations. 1. It will be possible if we want to set stricter standards in the area of product and food safety, and this again applies to your question yesterday and to the higher level of protection of workers or the environment. Because the agreement explicitly protects itself, and under quotes is the EU's right to regulation, and the parties commit not to lower already agreed standards. All the above is part of the common instrument for the interpretation of CETA published in Article 3. Final proposal of the CETA Confirmation Act. It is, therefore, a document of authentic legal interpretation of a binding character which unequivocally clarifies those issues which any legal entity that has to interpret this agreement will be able to rely on in the future. The entry into force of the agreement will stop applying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Canada on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 3 February 1997. This will replace the existing investment dispute resolution system with an independent investment system drawn up by the Permanent Court and the Court of Appeal under which dispute settlement procedures will be conducted in a transparent and impartial manner. The new system of dispute resolution removes significant objections from current systems. For example, I'll name three. First, it is explicitly regulated the right to legal regulation which makes it clear that the state can amend or adopt new laws in order to protect legitimate objectives from public interest, which balances the relationship between investors and the state. Second, an appeal mechanism has been established to contribute to the uniformity of arbitration practice and to greater legal certainty. Third, the highest standards of transparency of conduct have been introduced, and the arbitration panel requires impartiality, high expertise and respect for the codes of conduct. CETA is the most progressive trade agreement ever concluded by the EU and Canada, which sets out ambitious provisions regarding labour and the environment. In this respect, the parties have undertaken the following commitments, implement multilateral agreements in the area of the environment, such as the Paris Climate Change Agreement, and promote the sustainable use of natural resources such as wood and fish funds. Labour rights will not be reduced to boost trade or attract investment, workers' rights to negotiate, conclude or implement collective agreements will not be changed. The EU and its Member States and Canada commit themselves to the effective implementation of the basic conventions of the International Labour Organisation, as we call ILO. Finally, CETOM opens a new market for Croatian companies and it is up to us to take advantage of all its provisions and advantages, as much as possible, and especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are actually the foundation of the Croatian economy. I would add something else here and that is 250 thousand at least Croatians living in Canada, I believe that CETA, thanks to our numerous, truly numerous Croatian emigrants and their descendants, who today, as I have already mentioned, lives in Canada about 250 thousand, will indeed open the possibility of greater and more significant trade ties and greater and more significant relations between Croatia and Canada. Taking into account the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of international contracts, and the fact that amendments or additions to the text, to international contracts, cannot be carried out at this stage of the procedure. This final draft of the law is proposed, and I would really like to ask you for a quick procedure. I would like to thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42439	I thank the Secretary of State, Zdravki Busic. And we move to replicas, there's six of them. The first is the replica of the esteemed colleague Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42440	Dear colleagues, Mrs Busic, I thank you for your exhaustive presentation. Whoever may object to this contract, we will now hear the noise of former managers, self-controllers of socialism, conspiracy theorists, rural populists, but I would say this Croatia is 20 and some years of independence leading the isolation policy. You mentioned those 250 to 300 thousand Croats, they're waiting to come here with their investments. What's going on? They have a country that is totally dysfunctional as a legal state, and if we're going to solve it, and if this agreement is going to come to that agreement to meet the terms and conditions, we need to do something concrete. The first is the abolition of that red tape... that people can come here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have an example 10 years ago and a few years ago where Toyota company, where the centre in eastern Canada, wanted to come here, to Lika, is empty, today this company Toyota, thanks to the shortsightedness and total lack of initiative in Croatian government lines, etc., is today in Czech Republic. When you get to a store in Canada, you'll see everything from beer to Kras products, etc. And I think that what is not said in these import data8 and exports, there are Croats who send here 1 billion euros unregistered each year, without it Croatia would have failed. And what are we doing? When it comes to every investment, Croatian... Incompetence and ignorance prevents all these, all investments, no one will enter the country, where 5% of the land is arranged for investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're spinning in circles, and it's about time we gave up that isolation policy, because this reminds me of China that isolated itself in the 15th century. And if things don't work out, another generation of emigrants has already been created. We need to support this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42441	Thank you. Second replica, dear fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42442	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here we have heard that from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, they support this CETA agreement between the EU and Canada. However, the question arises, for what reason is there no foreign and European affairs minister present in the Assembly on such a very important topic? This agreement has prompted more than 3.5 million people to sign the EU's incentive against the agreement, and we all know what things these side-by-side from the ICS system over the national court, where the corporation and banks will be able to sue the state, to some controversial articles, such as Article 25.2. paragraph 2 explicitly states the reduction of adverse commercial influences from regulatory practices in the field of biologically designed products, as the objective of the agreement. This can only mean opening the Croatian market and the EU market, GMO products. Why is that happening? In particular, we know that over 42,000 US companies operating in Canada, which have a branch in Canada, will be able to come to both the Croatian market and the EU market and these US corporations will be able to sue the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42443	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished counterpart Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42444	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state. I have a question so we can break up at first so we don't get a case like last time with a secretary of state who came here unprepared for the law. So I wonder if you have read these 2200 pages and are you ready to answer any questions today for any article, item even an explanation that we have within these 2200 pages? So I'm not asking for an answer for five days but here today, so I'm wondering if you're ready to answer all of this, have you read all of this to even know if this debate makes any sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42445	Next debate, distinguished colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42446	Thank you very much. Dear secretary. You said that there is only European interest here and that you will preserve Europe's interests and standards. We must exclusively be interested in Croatian interests, especially in what my previous colleagues mentioned, the possibility of GMO products on our unhealthy market. Is it in this situation that when you mention exports and imports as much as Croatia, you said very small amounts that Croatia is exporting, how competitive are we going to be? Do you have calculations that we are going to export now in our economic trends, do we know that our economy is there, where it is Canadian, whether it is exclusively an interest to spread the market as it was in negotiations with the EU, so I see that most foreign products prevailed there. A brief question, is there a protected Croatian market, Croatian trade in GMO products, unhealthy food and what is Croatia's interest, not the EU, Croatia's export interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42447	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42448	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretary Mrs. Busic and his associates. So here's listening to your intro exposure, you could really say, so there's no reason not to accept such an agreement because what you've presented is affirmatively special about the export opportunities of the Croatian economy, after all, and all the qualifications you're talking about, our professional people who might be working in Canada. But don't blame me, too, because I come from Slavonia to think, however, that the impact of the agreement can have on Croatian agriculture. I'm glad you said here that the Republic of Croatia will take all measures to protect Croatian agriculture. Canada is about 170 times larger than the Republic of Croatia, I'm talking about the land surface of the Republic of Croatia, the population is about seven times higher and the ratio of agricultural holdings. The size of the average economy in Canada and Croatia is also 120 times higher. So Croatian agriculture cannot be competitive at this time with such agriculture from Canada and what I am now interested in, so I agree Croatia will have to take measures to protect, but what will be if, and I am not a lawyer and not now here, you have talked about these court proceedings if these corporations sue for stopping free trade, if there are such trials in other words if we pass laws, and it will not be recognised anyway. To finish this replica, there were MPs from Slavonia who were often used by the beekeepers so as not to be in the strength of the Vienna "No one has what Slavonac has, fresh peppers straight from Canada". You understand, this fear exists, so please, if you can make more time later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42449	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42450	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state. Speaking of this agreement regarding CETA's attention I followed your presentation and at one point you said that the exchange between Canada and the Republic of Croatia of investment three million dollars you said so. I will repeat what Mr. Glasovic said about the 250 thousand Croats living in Canada, about the foreign currency records are somewhere between $800 and $930 million. It's not insignificant money. I am glad that in a very short time the Croatian government is creating a positive atmosphere, a positive climate, we said that the prerequisite for good investment and tax stability and the legal stability that investors will recognise. It is true that at this point our investments are the highest in tourism, as far as foreign investments are concerned, but they should be attracted as some other countries in our environment, precisely by this stable tax system or legal stability, which I will believe by the end of the term of office of this government will change. But something else when you are already here, and I think it is good, we have often spoken in this Croatian Assembly, especially about emigrantism, not to take care of these people. I'll remind you only at the election, we tell people from the British colony from Calgary from Ontario they have to have an active registration so they can vote at all, you know that very well. And I think it's time that we also show that we care about changing electoral legislation so that we can do such things. Do not discriminate on people outside the Republic of Croatia in this case our emigrants, so it is very important for a good investment climate, welcoming everything you have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42451	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. Now I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'd take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. And while you fellow Klisovic are coming here, I see that he is at the gallery with us and Ambassador of Canada Daniel Maksymiuk, so I welcome him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42452	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I welcome Madam Secretary of State Busic with his associates and, of course, our Ambassador of Canada and friends who are working to promote Croatian-Canadian relations very, very dedicated. CETA is a comprehensive agreement on trade and investment aimed at strengthening trade, economic relations between the EU and its Member States and Canada. That's what the secretary of state told us very clearly. So the agreement is aimed at achieving mutual benefit for both the EU and Canada. The goal is not to fool the other side or to draw something for yourself which, at the expense of the other side. The aim is therefore to regulate trade investment relations to mutual satisfaction. Who should benefit precisely from this agreement? So we should benefit citizens, businesses, Canada and the EU, including in Croatia and the countries. How? Citizens should contribute to a higher level of trade and stronger investment cycles that should affect higher production and, consequently, the creation of new jobs. The destruction of trade barriers, the reduction of customs duties, the removal or simplification of administrative procedures for the placing of goods, the increased supply of goods and services should also lead to the fall of product and service prices. CETA agreed to abolish customs duties for 97.7% of European products and 98.2% of Canadian products. These products should be cheaped for the amount of customs duty as well as for the amount of costs of various administrative procedures to be abolished or simplified. An increased trade exchange with a reduction in prices should also work positively to increase the purchasing power of citizens and supply of goods and services on the market, and today this trade exchange is almost 100 billion euros. Companies, how are companies going to profit? So by facilitating their business and increasing profits through removing barriers to trade and encouraging investment in a safer, clearer and more modern legal framework. By removing and simplifying expensive administrative procedures and requirements encountered by exporters. Technical regulations relating to standards, testing, certification and accreditation will also be harmonised. The ultimate goal of these procedures is to cut costs for the businessmen. Given the agreed suspension of customs duties for 98% of Canadian products, EU companies will save more than 500m euros annually on behalf of customs duties on industrial products exported to Canada. This will also increase the competitiveness of these products and these companies on the market. Countries, they should benefit from the agreement by boosting trade and new rules for trade and investment will boost economic growth and GDP growth. The macroeconomic indicators should look better and the state budgets should be fuller. They will profit by fostering the competitiveness of EU and Canadian markets and companies, which every country of course wants. New investment cycles will also be encouraged, and we know that this is our government's priority. It will strengthen the overall economic and political ties between two important EU-Canada transatlantic partners. The EU already has 40 trade agreements with other countries and is currently negotiating with them another 20, including Japan, Vietnam, Malaysia, India, Thailand, Mercosur and Arab countries. Negotiations are being prepared with 40 other countries, soon the conclusion of such agreements with 120 countries will make up 66% of the EU's total trade with third countries. These are all trade contracts of a new generation. None of these contracts have produced controversy in the public like those with the largest European economic and political partners in the United States and Canada. However, it should be pointed out that European negotiators have received clear and strict instructions that the CETA solution must not go below the standard of European acquis. In particular, in the area of labour rights, the environment, food safety and public interest protection in the resolution of investment disputes. It is up to the Member States to monitor and assess whether the solutions contained in this Agreement are indeed the same. Throughout the process of negotiations, European negotiators have monitored and controlled the governments of the Member States and the Croatian government, and since the CET's mixed agreement needs to be ratified by all Member States, a total of 43 national and regional parliaments. And this is an opportunity for all parliaments to determine whether European negotiators have followed their instructions, or whether CETA solutions are in line with European standards and useful for European citizens. The Croatian Parliament began the process today. And the whole negotiation process is burdened by many fears, unfounded objections and delusions. That's how you do it, for example. criticises that only large corporations would benefit from CETA. The aim of the CETA is to reduce or remove administrative barriers to trade, facilitate exports, bring technical standards in line, facilitate business on the Canadian market. Large European corporations already have representations in Canada as well as in the EU. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are often unreachable due to complicated and expensive procedures and regulations. They need to make CETA more profitable and simpler, make it profitable and easier to operate. I have criticised the dispute settlement mechanism between states and corporations for the possibility of corporations taking advantage of investment protection provisions to make state laws invalid. The purpose of the negotiated provisions is to protect investors from discrimination and unfair and arbitrary state behaviour. But also at the same time ensure that countries are free to adopt laws and regulations in the public interest. So this agreement interrupts the traditional approach to protecting investment and resolving investment disputes that are now prescribed by a bilateral agreement. So in those which is Croatia in '97. the years ended with Canada. This will replace the existing investment dispute resolution system with an independent investment system composed of a permanent court and a court of appeal under which dispute settlement procedures will be conducted in a transparent and impartial manner. The new dispute resolution system removes significant obstacles to the current system. So, for example. is an explicitly regulated right to legal regulation which makes it clear that countries can amend existing or new laws in order to protect their legitimate objectives from public interest. An appeal mechanism has also been established, which contributes to the uniformity of arbitration practice and greater legal certainty. The highest standards of transparency have been introduced and the arbitration panel requires impartiality, high expertise and respect for the codes of conduct. It has also been criticised that CETA will allow GMOs to be imported to the EU market. European negotiators did not have such powers. Each Member State will still be able to limit the import of GMOs. The CETA will preserve the EU's right to apply its own standards on goods and services sold in Europe. Food products imported from Canada must comply with all EU rules passed by legislators in EU Member States. The EU will be able to, if it wants, adopt stricter standards in the area of product or food safety. With regard to workers' rights, the agreement requires the EU and Canada's obligations to improve their laws and policies with a view to providing a high level of protection of labour. They must not mitigate labour rights in the EU, both its members and Canada, in order to encourage trade or attract investment. The agreement does not alter the rights of work to negotiate, conclude and implement collective agreements and collective action. The EU will be able, if it wishes, to introduce stricter standards in the field of worker protection, and the parties have committed themselves to a transparent dispute settlement mechanism related to trade in the field of work. In part of environmental protection, multilateral agreements, such as the Paris Climate Change Agreement, will be applied and sustainable use of natural resources will be promoted. It is important to stress that the EU will be able to bring stricter standards in the field of environmental protection here if it wants to. The application of a transparent dispute settlement mechanism related to trade in the field of environmental protection is also agreed. The possibility of applying the criteria for environmental protection in public procurement will be maintained. What does CETA bring for the Republic of Croatia? The first question of the SDP club has the government made a study or assessment of the impact of CETA on the Croatian economy? We know that CETA has some positive effects, e.g. CETA will remove customs duties on industrial products. The harmonisation of certificates on industrial products most exported by the Republic of Croatia will no longer be necessary when exporting to Canada to request the production of the same certificates. Which collects the product because the same procedure is paid both in Croatia and Canada. Canada will lift customs duties to 90% of products in agriculture by applying the agreement, and both sides will completely abolish the customs duties on fishery products. But what effect will CETA have on Croatian exports? We know that exports of Croatian industrial products amounted to 24m euros in 2015. Is it expected to increase since customs duties will be abolished and procedures simplified by the application of the agreement? The export of Croatian agricultural products to Canada is 4m euros. There is a concern that the Croatian agricultural food sector, which is small and uncompetitive to cheap industrial production from Canada, will experience financial collapse and will lead to the collapse of many Croatian farmers and food processors. As indirectly vulnerable, meat, milk and dairy production are highlighted. I ask the Government's representative to answer us how thorough this fear is. I would also ask the government to answer the question of what are the chances that Croatian exports to the EU, which is our main market, will be reduced for reasons that our exporters, directed to the EU market, will get extremely strong competition from Canada? Please answer the question whether the impact of the CETA on the Croatian economy will result in reduced competitiveness of our companies due to an increase in imports and the possible weakness of key industrial sectors such as agriculture and the food industry? These questions must be answered by the government before the ratification of the CETA in the Assembly. The government can respond to them today in the debate or can submit a study of the impact of CETA on the Croatian economy, which would mean confirming the agreement after the second reading. In the field of services, the agreement provides that each Member State shall determine the type of services to be opened to foreign suppliers. The agreement does not prevent the Government of the Contracting Parties and Croatia itself from regulating the provision of such services in the public interest. Furthermore, the agreement will not require privatisation of any service or will prevent governments from expanding the scope of services provided by the public. The agreement will not prevent governments from providing public services previously provided to the private service provider or the return of services that the Government has decided to privatise under government public control. Very important for the prominent. The agreement also does not imply that the conclusion of a public service contract with a private provider is irrevocable to the commercial sector. The right of the EU and Member States to preserve public services will be maintained and Europeans and Croatian citizens will continue to decide for themselves on health care, education and water supplies, for example. Which is good and we certainly welcome. Finally, I ask the Government to answer the question raised by the SDP club so that we can make an informed decision and support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42453	I thank my colleague Klisovic. We have four replicas, and after that, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Busic, so we move with the first replica, the distinguished colleague Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42454	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Mr. Klisovic, here from your presentation, I see that the position of HDZ and SDP on this trade agreement does not differ, and why does that fascinate me? I am fascinated by the fact that the Socialist and Democrats' club in the European Parliament, the Austrian Social Democrats, the MEPs were against the CETA agreements. The Belgian majority were against the CETA agreement. The French majority were against the CETA agreement. The Czech, Irish, Latvian, Polish and Slovenian meanings are all of your fellow EU colleagues from your Social Democrats club who were against the CETA agreement. On the other hand, from Croatia and Biljana Borzana and Tonino Picula were for the CETA agreement. So I'm wondering if this is your support for these neoliberal agreements that limit actually labour rights and reduce labour rights is the cause of the incredible political fall of the SDP? Another question for you. In the matter of arbitration courts. So it says that even if the arbitration courts reject the investor's request as unfounded or decide that they are not in charge of the dispute in question, they can order the sharing of judicial costs that are often rising to millions between investors and the state. So when a corporation sues the state no matter what the ICS system refuses, it will have to be paid by the state's court costs again. How do you comment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42455	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42456	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. First, Mr Schibola obviously did not listen well to me when I was talking about the protection of workers' rights and how they were contained in this Agreement, which is what the European negotiators received when they negotiated. There is no reduction in standards that we have in the EU or in Croatia. Negotiators received an explicit ban, and it was in the governments that during the process they followed whether they respected the ban and on us in parliaments, and in the Croatian Parliament it was to confirm whether the ban was respected or not. That's one. Number two. The SDP is a party led primarily by an attempt to contribute to the improvement of Croatian society and Croatian citizens. We formulate all our policies from that perspective, including our policy towards CETA. In principle, we believe that CETA is good for the Republic of Croatia and in this context we have brought our position, and we are not only guided by what others think, even though others are part of our political family. Our task is to contribute to the improvement of the citizens of this country. As far as investment disputes are concerned, what we have in CETA is a whole new system of settlement of investment disputes that will replace the traditional old one that would be much more unfavourable for countries such as Croatia, so for smaller countries. Costs incurred in a particular dispute settlement process, for example, by arbitration, of course someone needs to be covered. But not just corporate disputes against the state. And the states are moving against corporations. And then, of course, the arbitration court will decide how they are to be submitted, especially if it is not previously determined what is the way in which these costs are covered. And it's expensive business, we all know that. But state interests need to be protected and not afraid of the costs that will arise if the benefits of the arbitration court's decision are greater than the costs. Well, you and I, if we go to court, we have to pay for our lawyer. But it's more useful than not to go. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42457	Second replica, esteemed colleague Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42458	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klisovic, we disagree sometimes but in this case we agree. In some of yesterday's discussions, we disagreed. I couldn't say it because I was sitting there, but now we have to say that I absolutely agree with you. You have, however, asked several important questions at the end of which I am convinced that you will receive an answer from the government. I might be able to answer some of them. One of the important issues that has been raised before, and it is always mentioned whether this will endanger our exports of agricultural products. So let's be realistic. Our export of agricultural products is almost nothing at this time in Canada. That's $4 million. It's practically nothing. Let's face it, unfortunately, I'd like it to increase and I believe exactly that because of this agreement, it will increase, of course, in certain niches. I'm sure we won't be exporting grain to Canada, etc. We at this time, mentioned Slavonia, at this time our main export product which has comparatively huge advantages in a forested Canada is actually a Croatian oak that is very quality and is exported. And these exports can grow very much. And on the other hand, the agreement will facilitate investment, because all those obstacles will disappear that have existed so far, and already on the Canadian side we have, here in Slavonia over 50 million kuna investments now very fresh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42459	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42460	... Reiner. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you for your explanation. I wish, of course, the government would confirm that. I agree that this agreement gives the perspective of a better way out of our agricultural products in Canada and has stakeholders among our companies for this increased exports. But what I have asked as a reading is something else, the question of how it will affect exports and Croatian agricultural products on the European market, because Canadian products will also come to this same market as our companies – the market in Germany, Austria, Italy and whether our products will gain greater competition and whether it will weaken our exports. I hope not, but it is one important thing that we do when we make a decision on this Agreement we must know as well as our citizens, and I think that in the context of this, we should contact the exporters, because they are probably best able to assess how this agreement will work on them whether it goes through the Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian exporters or the Chamber of Commerce as professional organisations that unite exporters and also on the Canadian market, but on the European one above all. As for yesterday's debate, I believe Mr. Reiner that you very much agree with me that the values of antifascism are embedded in the Constitution of Croatia. Is that how you get along? Well, that's all that matters to you, you don't have to agree with each word, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42461	We will certainly install antifascism values in the CETA as things develop. Next is the honorary fellow Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42462	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Klisovic, you have listed all the advantages that the secretary of state had mentioned earlier on this agreement, of course you have also raised several legitimate questions, which you will get an answer to. I would just like to update, in your debate one aspect, which is that when the EU and Canada, a highly developed country and the most powerful economic bloc in the world agree, not only on the elimination of customs duties, but what is most important, on standards. They then set those standards, or promote those standards that can become later and universal, and I think it is particularly important to point out, because these are standards in the foreign trade that will now protect both workers and labour rights and ecology at one level that may not even be in other countries of the world, and I think that aspect must be highlighted here, as it must be emphasized that this type of agreement is important for small and medium-sized people. Especially for small and medium, because large ones can always afford to meet these standards, that they can have 2 lines of production, that they can meet European and North American or in this case Canadian standards. However, small and medium costs a lot and then lose competitiveness, when those standards are harmonised, we are just helping small and medium, and these are the ones that create jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42463	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42464	Thank you very much. Mr. Stier, you're quite right in this commentary and replica, you've been working on these jobs until recently, that you're closer to getting acquainted with things here. Therefore, an agreement between major trade blocks such as the EU and Canada or the EU and the United States, where trade standards, including labour rights, the environment, food safety, are rising to a higher level. Of course they have, not only influence, on the market of these countries, but even much wider, global influence. Because when some Africans, because I mentioned the mass of Asian, Arabic and Latin American states, will want to export to the European markets, they will know what standards they must meet. And Europe is also negotiating with them, except it's kind of out of the public's focus and it's amazing that in the public's focus in one negative way, these are the negotiations with the EU's biggest partners, which are the US and Canada. But we must be aware that raising the stand-up, which is part of the world which de facto defines global standards, will be extended in this way to other countries in the world, where they will be sought for access to the European market, including the Croatian market to meet the very high standards that we have now started to put into contracts with Canada, and I believe that they will also be in agreement with the United States, if President Trump is interested in the US administration continuing negotiations with the Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42465	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42466	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klisovic, therefore, thank you first of all for mentioning agriculture, so special meat and milk production, when you said that the Republic of Croatia should make impact studies on its economy, so I fully agree, something about sport. It is good that the Croatian representative plays in football, for example in the Champions League, until now it was Dinamo, now it will be Rijeka, accepts the same rules, not be wise to say we do not want to participate in the Champions League, because we are not ready, but of course our responsibility is to prepare for the match where we want to compete. In addition to the studies, laws should also be passed, legal and regulations should be passed which will then achieve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I also agree with my colleague Rainer when he says, when he mentions the Slavonic oak which is an export product, it is certainly good, especially there are successes those wood growers who have their own forest. It's a little more dangerous for the Republic of Croatia, because now it's in the return phase of a lot of forest surfaces that were owned by the Republic of Croatia. And what was good, when we talk about this strategy and what we're preparing, we should, we shouldn't drink oak and export it, it should be some kind of product of more value actually. Then it would be a success for the Republic of Croatia, jobs would be opened, and that's the goal we want to achieve. It's not enough to get into a deal like this, sign a ratified deal, and then as it happens, that's why we need to prepare, if we haven't already prepared the time, it's going to be less and less. And when you talk about investment, I don't know, I've read something about this Barcelona declaration where in one 2,000 towns of smaller and larger have signed this agreement, where they want to be fenced from CETA and other these agreements. In fact, it is also very important for us in the Republic of Croatia that the territorial unit of local self-government enables investors to arrive. If it wasn't for what was happening, something fellow Glasovic was saying about it, that the investor wanted to invest, and then everything was done that he couldn't really invest here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42467	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42468	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, you're right. The competitiveness of the Croatian company is one of the key elements of quality performance in international markets and the use of all the advantages of trade agreements that the EU or Croatia have, including this CETA, which we hope to ratify. But, of course, this is also a question of the country's overall economic policy, which is defined by governments and which is then translated into the competent laws passed by the Parliament, because this is a really broader issue, I agree with you that exporting raw materials is not the best solution, exporting finished products, highly finished technological products, that is what Croatia, not the Croatian oak export, but quality Croatian furniture, and we know that Croatian furniture designers have already been imposed in Europe. That's what government through economic policy should certainly be encouraged to do. In Parliament, too, when laws come from that area, we must simply watch through the prism how to support Croatian exports. Because without the support of our entrepreneurs on the international market, without the country's quality economic policy, which is the basis of their competitiveness, to be taxed, to allow them to gain more funding in research and development, into their personnel, which will then be the bearers of the economic activities of exports. Exports that btw by the way, which engine is the largest recovery of the country's economy for very simple reasons. Croatia is a small market, our production has more capacity than our citizens' purchasing power, unfortunately so, but it can export as well as other European countries, but to export you must be competitive. If you manage to take out your goods and charge them, you have the opportunity to increase production. Increased production also means increased jobs, higher earnings, higher taxes, higher budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, everyone must contribute, including the competition policy and the economy of the exporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42469	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42470	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke nicely and we generally agree, but you also asked a lot of questions and legitimate questions to the government of the Republic of Croatia. I only hope that since the seven years this agreement has been negotiated, you four have been at the very top of the state government. I think that for a few years you've been in this place where Mrs. Busic is that you know these answers, I suppose you actually know them so that it was more rhetorical or public. Secondly, you asked whether the entry of Canadian companies into the EU market would reduce Croatian competitiveness or the competitiveness of Croatian companies. Well, that just doesn't work, so our competitiveness of our companies depends primarily on ourselves, first of all. We know how much she is today, we know how she is today, we know what needs to be done to make her better. There are very competitive, globally competitive, so I think first of all that the task of all of us here in the Parliament is to make possible teams that are globally competitive today that all others can become like that as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42471	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42472	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Milosevic, you're right, and the SDP government led the state at times when the CETA negotiations were negotiated and I was, of course, involved in this personally because trade negotiations are part of foreign policy. But you'll also admit you're a businessman, follow how things work in the economy that markets are actually dynamic and that things change in the markets. What I have raised as questions to the Government are the things that we then detected in government as potential risks to the Croatian economy and we have followed these things and we have followed their influence, we have communicated with Croatian owners especially through the format of economic diplomacy to hear from them, people who export to these markets as they experience these solutions offered to CETA. When we were government and when we talked to them, they were in principle satisfied with them with these solutions and did not see any major problems, which does not mean that they may not see bigger problems today. And that's why, because of the changes in the environment, the changes in the markets I've asked these questions and they need to be followed around all the time. In addition, it is good to communicate to the public if within civil society, arguments are constructed that are not already accurate and well-founded, but should then be deconstructed and refuted in well-founded arguments. Otherwise, there is always some worm of doubt that Croatia and Croatian governments are working on the dictatorship of some large corporations, which you and I both know is not true. But let's just take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42473	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Zdravka Busic will take the floor. Five minutes is at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42474	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's been a lot of questions and I'll try to respect it, in five minutes it's not easy to answer all that, but of course by respecting everything you said here I want to thank you all and say that it was first on replicas. So the question was, where's the minister? She's in the government. I have to answer that. And the second question was the honourable MP that protested against CETA, no, it was a big protest they were if you remember against TTIP, and against CETA was not protested, you can check. But okay, I respect that. And TTIP is with the United States, and this is Canada. I'd like to point out here the following, and please, and I have to conclude today in front of you that CETA is our chance, and it's up to us whether or not we're going to get that chance. Croatia must and we all know it must adapt to the open market. By joining the EU, Croatia has joined the market of 500 million people, and this is the Canadian market, and the Canadian market is much smaller and represents 35.4 million people. As for the esteemed representative Klisovic, thank you for your presentation which I am estimating excellently and very positively and of course you said almost what I said, and as far as the analysis is concerned, there was sectoral analysis. And across the wide study and broad study, I am sure Mr. Klisovic, the commission has been working on a broad analysis actually for all Member States and has been published on the European Commission's pages. Exporters, for example, in Croatia were doing their sectoral analysis and this analysis proved positive. Here's what I'd like to say for a little while. As for current exports, we currently have 136 companies exporting today to Canada. And to Mr. Zhagar, let's say that if one company today or tomorrow when this agreement is realised, now that things are being done they should open their offices in Canada, and later or when this agreement is realised they won't be necessary. And these currently 136 companies that are exporting today to Canada, they had to open their offices in Canada first and all, of course, you know what's going on with it. And today, that is, from tomorrow when it is applied, they will be able to do so from Croatia. There's been a lot of talk here and, of course, I don't want to pollute here about GMOs. Please, I just want to point out that the EU is strictly, strictly prohibiting GMOs. And this wasn't part of the negotiations, the GMO wasn't. So here I think that's what's pointed out here, so I think you, Mr. Representative Klisovic, told him the same thing. Here's how it would've been if you hadn't crossed your five-minute limit. So, as for those who fear that too many Canadian products will now be on the Croatian market, Canada really has its quotas. And it also all stands in your delivered materials. And I will listen carefully to all your interventions, that is, all of what you will have to say in direct exposure and representatives as well as at the end of any clubs, I will try, of course, to respond in the best possible way. If, look at the analysis itself one Okay, here's a thank you very much. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. I'm afraid it's time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42475	You can pick up every time after every bench Please. [[/Intruding Busic: Thank you. Thank you very much.]] We have four replicas. He's the first to be respected colleague of the Scibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42476	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. You have transmitted false information, not only to be protested against the TTIP Agreement, it is also protested against the CETA Agreement and the TISA Agreement, etc. So it is not only a matter of protesting, but over 3.5 million EU citizens signed a petition against these agreements and over one third of the European Parliament's MPs voted against the CETA agreement in the European Parliament. I would like you to comment on the situation in Belgium, paraphrase, in addition, as part of the agreement between the Valon region and the Belgian Federal Government, which provided Belgium's support in the EU Council, the Federal Government has committed itself to making a request to the European Court of Justice to assess the compliance of the ICS system with European legislation. Can you tell at what stage that is now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42477	Do you want the secretary of state reunited at the end or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42478	What you mentioned wasn't done, no. Here's all I can answer right now, to that question directly because I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42479	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42480	Dear secretary, we see that this is about 2,000 articles. And here it took a second reading, of course, and an assessment of all procedures whether they were harmful to the Croatian economy or not. We have here, you mention the EU's nonstop interests, the interests of Canada, the interests of CETA. However, the effects, citizens must, entrepreneurs, farmers must know the exact effects of all these procedures that follow. We know absolutely nothing here. Are you sure about all these 2,000 articles that are here to protect the economy, agriculture and everything that is needed and investment in Croatia or will be on the side of Canada or other major countries in Europe? Many of us had cases where Croatia lost and debates and where Croatia lost part of its sovereignty because there was no other reading, which was not a public debate, which we rushed. Today we also have a problem with Savurdija and in other segments we have a problem with an exclusive economic belt also where we are doing great damage to natural resources and economic potential in the Adriatic. So here there should be a second reading, let's see exactly what these procedures are all about in this proposal agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42481	Okay. [[Intruding Busic: Can I say it unitedly?]] The third replica is the esteemed counterpart Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42482	Thank you very much. And thank the secretary of state for the answers. If I could just suggest that you make these sectoral analyses that have been made and that you mention make somehow available either in the integrated text or in the main emphasis to the MPs. Whether it's to send us, whether it's to be put on the web side of the ministry, in any way, just let us know where we can find it because I think they provide enough ground and enough answers to all the questions we've asked today in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42483	And the last replica, dear colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42484	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honored secretary, in this final presentation, you mentioned two things, only for a short while, you mentioned 110, 136 companies, and earlier you said that we have a positive exit balance, so basically 75% of that balance we export rather than import. What I would just like to add is that when customs duties are lifted around 400m euros will be on goods originating in the EU, it will later end up with 500m euros in customs duties less. Of course it's an opportunity for our exporters as we've heard. However, in your replica, or reply to the replica, you also mentioned GMOs, but there is clear and clear that with a greater choice for consumers from the EU, we retain everything and stick to all European standards. They will remain unchanged and all goods from Canada must without exception comply with European rules and regulations on products. So, as regards GMOs and not only GMOs, it is specifically mentioned and the prohibition of bovine animals treated with hormones, of course we always knew that according to the acquis, Croatia can always and must care for the quality and safety of agricultural products or products on our shelves and can always react there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42485	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, the esteemed colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42486	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I was just looking at some statistics on the size of the average farm in Croatia and the size of the average farm in Canada. Believe it or not, the average farm in Canada has over 300 hectares, and in Croatia 2.4, something like that, which will say that the price of the finished product on Croatian farms is higher than the average price of the agricultural product in Canada. We are told here that once this agreement is signed that we will be opened by the Canadian market. Okay, but the same ones told us that when we join the EU, we will be opened to the European market. I don't know if they remember any of you, but then it was said that not only would we not lose ours, but we'd once half a billion people would pour Croatian products. However, the reality was harsh and showed the following. Following the elimination of customs barriers, the conditions of the unrealistic exchange rate of kuna where import products and additionally cheaped exchange rate policies have occurred, there has been an explosion of imports of food of each type. There has been a breakdown of domestic agricultural production, and ultimately, the two processes associated with eating imported food on the one hand, and on the other hand, that the Croatian village is leaving and that we have an accelerated depopulation effect. It means that the simple population from certain parts of Croatia completely disappears. I don't know who's gonna live there in 50 years. It's a big question that, unfortunately, no one in this House is asking. The other thing is about when they say customs won't be lifted, the secretary says. In Canada, however, when people seek the consent of the agreement, they are told customs will be abolished. So what's going on? We have a situation here to advertise this agreement that customs will not be abolished on imported food, say from Canada, and in Canada, tell farmers to vote for CETA because we will lift your customs duties. The truth is, the truth is that customs will not essentially be abolished, or will not be abolished by 99% of things. So it'll just be a couple, so to speak, of goods that customs will remain on. But what's more important is that other than 99% of customs disappears, all non-tariff barriers are lifted. What does non-tariffic barriers mean? And that in practice means, let's say, if imports of certain products from Canada are prohibited, because let's say some GMO culture is not allowed, that obstacle disappears. So you can essentially import complete GMO food. I must say that there are already certain varieties of GMOs in the EU allowed. So when we get in the little door, we get in the big door. The other thing is that it assures us that it is better for Croatia to settle disputes with foreign corporations in arbitration courts, not in front of domestic justice. And that conclusion is insane, so we already have situations where we lost, for example, in the case of MOL, right in the arbitration procedure. And not only that, which is shocking, the state will have to pay the cost of arbitration or judicial proceedings against these international corporate courts even in the event of a dispute. I would also like to say that I am putting the problem of judicial corruption. I don't know if any of you know that, there's a lot of talk about it in Croatia, and I don't remember any judge going to jail for corruption. I don't remember much. However, it is your business that in these circles you are in a corporate situation that people from the corporate sector are pushed into state institutions and then from state institutions back into the corporate sector, as was the case with Minister Maric, Minister Dalic, etc. But what's the trick? The trick is that the big corporation is gonna tell the judge, look, if you're gonna vote for us, in this dispute, once you finish the judge's job, we're gonna hire you in a high-paid position. Or they'll bribe him in some other way. And the states won't be able to influence these corporate courts, so they won't be able to name it at all, as you would say, Judge. Now Croatia, for example, appoints judges at the Supreme Court, Constitutional Court, etc. Croatia cannot name people in corporate courts, so only the name of a corporate court implies that it is simply a court created by private entities to protect their private interests. And you know what's interesting? In case a state wants to limit the profits of a soft foreign corporation, and therefore there is a corporate court, with automation in all cases where the state wanted to limit profits for some reason if it is sued, it will lose the dispute. That's your reality. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you will repeat again as a parrot that it is in the interest of Croatia that disputes are not brought before domestic courts but in corporate courts, in cases where foreign corporations are suing us ok. And the question is, what harm will the states and the people have from it? You also say the agreement between Canada and Croatia, but all corporations operating in Canada, and the mass of American corporations, or all major corporations operating in Canada, will be able to sue us and them in these corporate courts, will be able to do the same. So this is like you're making a deal with America essentially about corporations. And that's the suma sumarum of the whole story. So, all non-tariff restrictions are lifted. 99% of customs duties are withdrawn, corporate courts and the public are introduced, and ask the Croatian peasants what benefit he will benefit from this agreement. They won't have any. We're even importing hemp from Canada right now, instead of producing it ourselves. So the state of Croatia does not allow the production of cannabis or marijuana in Croatia but only allows imports from Canada. Who brought such a regulation and supported it? Prime Minister Tim Oreshkovic, who came from Canada and works for the pharmaceutical industry. No one sees anything controversial about it. And this debate will pass, and the majority of HDZ and SDP will vote uncontested because they essentially represent one policy, neoliberalism policy, globalism policy, NATO policy, EU policy, corporate capital policy, etc. Not the interests of the citizens. But unfortunately, citizens who support these parties for various reasons do not realize that the ultimate consequence of supporting such a policy is their disappearance from these areas. So, citizens, citizens of our country leave our country in large numbers, move out. How will CTU help them? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. It won't help us who are here either. It's slowly happening that the states are increasingly visiblely ruling capital, that the states, that corporations are, and in fact, affecting decisions. But so far, corporations have affected decisions indirectly. So let's say the corporation puts pressure on the politicians, on those of us who make the laws. There are so-called. lobbyist groups, lobbys, all kinds of lobbies. You have registered all over the world. In the U.S. Congress there are, and there are in Croatia what is public, which is secret. But the application of the CETA will no longer require pressure on politicians and political institutions but will have its own court. So the state of Croatia renounces the judicial authorities. So we've had a trio of power so far, and now that fateful power is going to be what it says outsours. It will simply be handed over in the hands of others, so to speak the authority whose authority does not come from the will of Croatian citizens but from the will of the corporations that create these courts. It's shocking that when Peru had a dispute at that corporate court he got slow but had to pay half the cost. So, you, by the way, if I sue Mr. Zeljko Reiner, I lose the court, I'll have to pay my expenses. That was so normal. But for those corporate courts, it's not normal. So I'm suing Mr. Reiner and he has to pay half the cost. Is that normal for you people? Is that normal for you people? Which means that he's actually trying to encourage corporations to argue with states, and countries in such courts are often losing because by the inadequacy, i.e. by a powerful verdict in the case of MOL this is a very important detail MOL gave a bribe to reach INA 10m euros, 10m euros in bribes. So MOL was ready to give our government a bribe under the power of judgment to get some capital. And then what? Imagine you coming to court where you decide what to do with it being a corporate court, which isn't, so you don't even call it state. It's not the International Court, it's the corporate court, they call it corporations. So do you think a company that is willing to bribe a politician to realize its interests will not be ready to bribe a corporate court. So if there are five judges in that court, each corporation appoints another and what? He says here, how much do you want? Make a deal and we'll move on, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, however, it is not only the corruption of international courts or corporate courts or even the problem of judicial corruption. It's all just the consequences of the corruption of the law-making us, so parliamentary representatives who, in various private interests, do what they do? Their conscience tells them one thing, but the party directive tells them another. I am sure that if 50 HDZ deputies were given all arguments for and against, then surely by nature things would take different opinions. I have taken the view that I am against this bill, or agreement. But you will see that all HDZ representatives will be in favour. For me, it was a frat tax on real estate. Let's say Steve Culey is personally against real estate tax, but when Steve's vote comes for real estate tax. That might be the case with this agreement. There may be among you, among you people who are against the import of mass GMO culture in Croatia, but an agreement that leads to mass imports of GMO cultures, you will support. Why? Because you agree with it personally or because there's some other interest in you. And then what happens? What happens is that 4 million citizens, a hostage of personal interest, are 100 parliamentary representatives, for example. But not just that, not just that. In the same way that parliamentarians make decisions against the public interest, in the same way as voters when they go to the elections, they choose against public interest. Why? Because voters, for example, who vote for HDZ have a private interest. Like HDZ MPs, they also have some private interest. And you actually have a problem, mass corruption in society, which has entered all the pores of society, where it means not corruption of one individual, this is the problem of corruption of a whole society, and the ultimate consequence of complete corruption is the passing of laws that are against the interests of health and against the economic interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42487	We have four replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42488	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pernar, I have one correction, and two questions for you. The first correction, you said, was that there has been no export since we entered the EU, and on the contrary, every statistic proves to you, which is that, above all, exports of goods and services over the past years, Croatia has derived from the multi-annual crisis and recession. The private sector, mostly medium and small entrepreneurs, exports of goods, services, tourism, so that's what happened to Croatia after we joined the EU. Thank God. That's evidence. And the two questions for you are the following, the first question as to how do you interpret that young educated, talented, those you may most often mention in this assembly, go persistently to the neoliberal markets like Ireland, Germany, north or west of Croatia, and do not go to Zimbabwe or Venezuela or Cuba, seek a better life? And the second question is, do you really like a young man, don't believe in competition and competition or do you believe in it anyway?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42489	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42490	Well, Mr. Milosevic, here I will read you an article, the article reads as follows: "A dramatic defeat of food imports. Everything from garlic abroad to meat to potatoes. Believe it or not, imports have been spinning for years to a dramatic 2 billion dollars. But Croatia last year imported food for more than $3 billion." We are talking about 2014 so you can say that exports have increased, perhaps exports have increased, but it is important whether exports have increased by 505 or 5%. We see that food imports have increased over 50% since EU entry. And that exports have grown much less. Moreover, because of Russia's sanctions, we lost the Russian market. As for this question where you say why young people leave? They're leaving Mr. Milosevic because of the policy of you and your colleagues, because of a policy where young people can't do it for your party, because they're not members of your party to get to work. That's why they're leaving, Mr. Milosevic. Because you have ruined Croatian factories, that you HDZ gentlemen have brought young people to where their parents worked, they can no longer work. And what you're saying is that because of the politics, as I don't know, your right ones, they go there, because you let them escape the country, so that's Mr. Milosevic, and what you said, you said there You said the Croats are going to Germany to work because there's a liberal system, I don't know. [[Don't throw it away, I'm asking you not to throw it away.]] That's not true. They're going to work there because there's no pay here, because there's no work here. That's why they go there, and by chance they choose between being unemployed or working there. But it's not that they work there because the system there is liberal, but they're going there because you took away their job and their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42491	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42492	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, the effects of the rules on EU accession, e.g. We only influence these effects of regulations where they unanimously accept, also for the same intentions, effects on agriculture. Since we've been in the EU, you've mentioned agricultural empty villages, who lives in villages, who talks and lives in the country and will live in the country. And I'll talk about the village. But imagine what it is possible for a parliamentary representative to discuss this document in general, which is very important, a document, where there are various traps, as well as EU entry, which destroyed the village, peasants, farmers, where our people are leaving. 2130 pages of this agreement has, even more. So here's the idea even in Parliament's legal services, that just one day club, the club's material needs two people to wear, that one day it can only be in the club that material, because the great cost of printing is that material. Is it even serious to talk this way, we as parliamentary representatives, that we don't even know from the proposing effects of these regulations, 2500, 3000 pages of material. Of course, the effects, when we entered the EU, were visible in the negotiations, there were no villages, no peasants, the demographic picture was empty, the stock fund was never lower, so the only interest was to have us here as the market for their goods. Well, we've got milk production, so we don't have any more. Slavonia is empty. That's the facts. I also doubt that this is the same system, the same possibility that someone else's interests against Croatia's interests is there no effect of regulations on the Croatian economy and the market. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42493	Thanks, buddy Bull. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42494	So, Mr. Bull, you know what this is about? It's about manipulation of statistics. We see that domestic production is failing, that domestic production companies are stagnating, that the village is disappearing, that food imports have doubled, but you know when they say but in Croatia exports have increased, said Domagoj Milosevic. Odite says we exported a thousand cars and bananas for 20 million kunas, says he says in a year banana exports jumped 20 times, and 6 times jumped the value of exported cars even though we don't produce either. And what's this about? is manipulated by statistics. Simple goods that go through Croatia in transit are counted as exports. And how much more do they count the exports of these other cultures that we may be producing ourselves? Let's say bananas and cars know that we don't produce, and how much of what they've brought into export, which may not be so suspicious, but it's also just transit goods. And finally, if it's true that I don't know the Croatian economy is growing, how is it possible if the population has fallen by 200 thousand, how do I not understand? As it is possible, I do not know that exports of Croatian food are growing, and the village is failing, that 80% of the OPGs have closed down, that mass imports of milk, meat and all that is long. So who do we trust in banks here, and who does? And here's a big responsibility at the Bureau of Statistics, what they lead to export and how they lead. And I guarantee you that if you were realistically viewed and objectively to see in Croatia that society was failing. Because it's impossible that the situation is the way it is and that the economy is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42495	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Curray. I'm asking all my colleagues to stick to the subject, but now we're already starting to expand the subject very much, so let's just stick to the subject. We went to the statistical office and everything, so let's stick to the subject a little bit. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42496	Thank you, Vice President. So... a brief replica just a few things on some of the presented data from fellow Pernar. He first mentioned the average size of agricultural holdings of 300 hectares in Canada with 2.4 in Croatia that is 125 times larger. But we need to know that Canada has 10 million kilometers square while Croatia has 56 thousand, which is 176 times larger. It is not a matter of size, the thing is that it is produced, as it is certain that no wheat will be imported from Canada to Croatia, we are talking about agricultural products. And that's the strategy and measure of our agriculture to focus on what we can be competitive about. On only one example, I will tell you who will benefit from this agreement, the producer in Osijek, of the dried-meat products that have just directed 500 million investments to export. To him, finished products from the field through the breeding of pigs to the final product that will go out. He's gonna use this, it means hundreds of people working there, and that's the way we should look at it. We do not need to underestimate Croatian brains and Croatian citizens, not all will fail. Someone here will open an opportunity, when they open up to them, they'll open up to the citizens for new jobs. You also talked about exports, the growth of exports by entering the EU on average was around 9%, imports from 7.5 to 5.5% dropped last year. It's also an opportunity for those who can take advantage. We have to start thinking that way. As far as the mentioned GMOs are concerned, I think I've already said that before, so all products will have to be imported from Canada and will have to be without exception in accordance with European rules and regulations, rather than only GMOs, but also a ban on bovine animals treated with hormones. And finally you mentioned the former prime minister and the role of pharmacy, I think he's here today so he could just say that this is good, good, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42497	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42498	Mr. Good, good, good from the CNS you know what I'm going to tell you, before you were sitting in your seat a pathological liar who assured the Croatian public that the divisions would bring savings. Then it was seen that there was no savings, after which he said for months that he would not co-ordinate with HDZ, so he co-ordinated with HDZ. And you are now saying that the Croatian village will profit from the agreement. But I'll read you one piece of information, it says this way since EU imports of milk increased 90%, and that's an article from 2014, here's another statistical data, watch this in half a year on the market five times more foreign eggs. And why are there five times more foreign eggs? Well, logically, there was a breakdown of domestic production. And now you're now all the time convincing yourself to find an example of a company that may have profited. Well, it may be, but you can see if 90% of the imports of milk essentially have been broken by the dairy industry. If you see a five-fold increase in egg imports and because of these imported eggs, the child died of salmonella from Poland, so you see that there is a problem or you don't see and that's basically the problem. So you're systematically trying to show that this so-called. liberalisation that this elimination of customs, that the exchange rate policy Croatia is implementing is not good for Croatian production. Let's say another example, you're talking about production growth, look at the metallurgical industry, the collapse of the TLM Ironworks has failed, the Sisak Ironworks have failed. We don't make more iron malt today, we don't make it, we don't make it at all, ladies and gentlemen. We don't make bananas either. Why are we ladies and gentlemen from Croatia so dramaticly exporting that we have some kind of export growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42499	Thank you very much. We've had one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42500	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have injured Article 238, paragraph 7, because you have warned us to return our parliamentary representatives to the topic. The fact is that in 2300 pages, are you sure we left the topic? We didn't leave the topic because all our colleagues were talking about the subject and it was CETA and our trade exchange and everything else we had. So I would ask you not to warn, nor to dispute the course of the dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42501	I would advise you to look at the Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of Procedure, the article you mentioned is set out in the chapter of the reasons for the emphasising of the tightening measures. Neither have I spoken to anyone of any kind, nor do I intend to do so unless you break the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, take a look at the Rules of Procedure first and then protest against the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Of course she wasn't here. Thank you very much. Next up, colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow representative, your empathy for the Croatian village is as acceptable to me as possible and I strongly support it. However, you and I know that we are on the global world market and that a small Croatia certainly cannot live for itself. However, I will reflect on one of your statements where you said that, for example, imports of soy from third countries are allowed in the EU. Not to be allowed into the EU, but do you think that the ship that docks in Koper with soybean intended for the European market from which imports into Croatia are not GMOs? Yes, my dear friend, it is a GMO soy that enters Croatia and then is built into animal food by our cattlemen. With this GMO strain our cattlemen feed our animals, honor the exceptions. There are also those who feed the GMO free soy but it should be very clearly declared. However, it is more important to say that we as a state, and especially we as parliamentarians, should argue that this very soybean that is, precisely, these animals that are fed to GMOs are declared free of food in such a way and that our consumers know exactly what they eat. Because we certainly won't be able to avoid it on the global market, so we will also be able to get GMO food on our market. However, I am telling you again clearly I am and I am very much in favour of very clearly identifying what GMO food is. How about we don't talk about food, food from animal origin coming from South America, so you don't think those animals are not fed to GMOs, and we normally consume that food in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42503	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42504	Sir not only is the import of GMOs allowed, but here's another detail, the European Commission approved on Friday, this article last year, imports of monsantogenally modified soy roundup ready 2 xtend. And what's going on? This decision now opens the way to the mass shine of this product next season. In other words not only are the EU now allowed to import GMO soybeans but also the planting of GMO soybeans and essentially the soybean is, this variety is also allowed for human use. And what's going on? What's going on? Now we're going to import because all non-tariff barriers are being lifted, and now all GMOs can be imported, dear Sir, from Canada. I am also glad that the masks finally fell, to be seen in this House that HDZ and SDP are for GMO cultures, for importing GMOs even though they have been lurking their eyes to the Croatian public for years. We are talking about that I do not know any regions in Croatia GMOs are clean etc., it was all a propaganda circus and the consequences of this propaganda circus are terrible, or will be terrible for people's health. Look in America what an average American looks like, look at his health, how much he weighs, what diseases he suffers from, and you'll actually see that this diet that America and that liberalism bring to you is a disaster. And unfortunately, we actively support this disaster with all possible laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42505	Thank you very much. Now we will move to the next club of representatives and that is the one to change Croatia in the name of which we will speak the distinguished representative Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42506	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here we are in the Croatian Parliament today witnessing a twilight of democracy. And why is this the twilight of democracy? How many of the MPs are present here? Here, for example. to count how many of them are from the SDP. There are currently four MPs from the SDP and let's say twice as much from the HDZ. But the subject is of historical character. So because of this topic, this topic is being protested by the entire EU. So over 3.5 million signatures against the CETA Agreement. The process of creating international economic integration driven by technological and economic forces as well as the policy of liberalisation in world trade has strongly marked the second half of the 20th century and has had a strong impact on global trade growth. This phenomenon has gradually taken over the entire global area with special intensity in countries related to geographical proximity, historical background or political factors manifested in the process of conclusion of trade agreements. In order to even discuss such an important agreement as the CETA Trade Agreement, we need to be aware that the progress of trade agreements has been affected by globalisation. Globalization critics define it as a system of domination, supranational corporate trade and banking institutions that do not take into account democratic processes or national governments. It is about the raptorship of cross-border economic, social, technological exchanges under capitalist conditions, the famous economist Krugman, pointed out that globalisation is the opening of national markets to international trade. Each economic integration is a contractual link between two or more states on how to develop trade between them more quickly and other aspects of economic co-operation. The concept of economic integration exists on the subject of interest, and wider economic study only in the 1950s. The start of the study of the effects of economic integration is related to the works of Jacob Viner and later Bela Balazse. There are different definitions that explain what economic integration is, one of the concrete ones is that it is a treaty between countries on forms of mutual economic co-operation with the intention of eliminating different trade, economic and political barriers, for the rapid development of mutual economic integration. State integration may be based on a regional basis, on a type of economic activity, on the basis of the types of barriers to be eliminated, on the basis of a market or other mechanism for the functioning of their economies. The WTO uses the concept of a regional trade agreement, but there are terms such as preferential trade agreement, and in literature is a common concept and free trade agreement or free trade agreement. From 1949 to 1959, the number of regional trade agreements in the world was only 4th, meaning only 4 trade agreements. In 1960 to 1969, 21, from 1970 to 1979, we have 40 regional trade agreements, from 1990 to 1999. 74, since 2000. 215, 2010-2015 265, so we see this upward trend of trade agreements. Now let's return specifically to the topic of a regional trade agreement between Canada and the EU. EU-Canada negotiations on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement, CETA, began on 06 May 2000. The Prime Minister of Canada and the President of the European Commission signed a controversial CETA agreement on 26 September 2014. Economic quantitative studies under the auspices of the European Commission use the same standard, a non-classical model of trade, therefore it is not surprising when they always advocate the same thesis as open borders, trade liberalisation benefits all. Since then, Croatia has made no study of the impact on the Croatian economy, and until independent scientists make a cost benefit analysis, the Croatian Parliament should in no way ratify this trade agreement, especially when we know that more than 3 and a half million EU citizens have signed a petition against trade agreements as CETA so TTIP. As far as the Croatian government actually considers this agreement important, they have shown that no foreign and European ministers have come here at all. The secretary of state, who, unfortunately, she doesn't even know she's an example. The Belgian province of Valonia blocked the CETA agreement. Long-term slower wage growth will transfer an additional share of national income from workers to capital owners. By 2023, the share of national income generated by capital will grow by 1.76% and 0.66% in Canada and the EU. As a result, workers will have an average annual earnings of 1776 euros in Canada, between 316 and 1331 euros in the EU, depending on the country. Sustainable growth cannot be achieved in order to encourage exports as a substitute for domestic demand. Under the current conditions of saving high unemployment and low growth, improving the competitiveness of reducing labour costs can only harm the economy. Media and the European Commission often emphasise only the positive sides of the CETA, such as the reduction of customs duties, the opening of services markets, the reciprocity of the recognition of professional qualifications, etc. Also, one of the important arguments of CETA advocates is an increase in consumer choice, which will have a higher choice of products at lower prices due to the economy of volume. Rapid technological and scientific progress in a globalised world does not mean prosperity for most of society. And we see that today, we see that in the EU there is an increasing distinction between the rich and the poor, we see a big difference between the EU's northern and southern countries, where the EU's southern countries are largely in debt, and there are Greece, Croatia, Spain, Portugal, Ireland. Today, there are over 270 regional trade agreements in the world, but regardless of all these agreements, it is evident that in both the EU and other parts of the world, the middle layer disappears. So key issues are raised, such as why do we still have so many unemployed in the EU, regardless of never more globalised, connected international economy? One of the important themes of neoliberalism supported by different trade agreements is the flexibility of the labour market, deregulation and liberalisation. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are closing in favour of the most advanced mechanized and automated production. Total industrial branches remain untapped, the economies of the entire regions suffer and only part of the production potential of world agriculture is used. The CETA trade agreement operates on principles, it is called in the economy the violence of large corporations, financial conglomerates and other powerful companies at the expense of the domestic producer, the small man, the peasant who needs to survive his work. The CETA agreement is just another of many integration mechanisms from which small businesses and craftsmen will not benefit but only damages as the state thus agrees with conditions under which it cannot protect the domestic producer. Any attempt by state intervention is called market discrimination that one sovereign authority should not agree to such conditions. There are many university studies, for example, in Canada that say Canada will lose 23,000 jobs, and the EU will lose a total of 204,000 jobs due to this CETA agreement. These include Germany, will lose 19000 jobs, France 45000, Italy 42000, other EU countries 89000, so the overall consequences of the EU-Canada CETA agreement will be the loss of 227 000 jobs. The results of a survey of researchers from universities in Canada published by the Council of Canada Institute, and concerning the ratification of free trade agreements between Canada and the EU are weaker economic growth, job loss, reduction of wages and tax revenues, and argue that a comprehensive economic agreement will lead not only to economic losses but also to an increase in unemployment and inequality. According to authors, the macroeconomic consequences of the planned trade agreement between Canada and the EU are significant. By 2023, as the CETA Treaty warns, it will lead to a loss of about 230 thousand jobs, mainly in the EU. They also point out that the proposals for the contract overemphasise the possibility of greater economic growth due to increased investment trade, stressing that these projections rely on full employment and the lack of negative impact on income distribution by providing alternative projections made through the UN global policy model. The authors of the study indicate that implementation of the CETA contract will lead to higher budget deficits in each EU member state and a drop in state revenues. The contract will also increase wage pressure in Canada and the EU, resulting in a loss of the average annual profit growth of 1985 in Canada, and between $353 and $148 in the EU depending on the country in which the study is quoted. Chapter 8 allows investors from Canada to sue the EU and its Member States for damages and vice versa if new regulations reduce their profits and thus the value of their investment. No small domestic company can use this right. The right to regulation referred to in Chapter 8 and attached explanations shall not change anything in that regard. Reimbursement claims will still follow. What is not mentioned in public is that 42000 US companies will also be able to press charges through branches in Canada. CETA gives lobbyists priority over the members of the European Parliament. The rules on regulatory cooperation sections 25 to 27 are the perfect environment for lobbyists that could affect the text of EU law even before they reach the European Parliament. The participation of the European Parliament of the elected representative body of citizens is not foreseen. CETA restricts legislators. In many places CETA makes very specific provisions that go far beyond classical trade policy. If, in the future, the EU, Member States or local authorities want to change the rules defined in the CETA, then the federal government of Canada must agree. In this way, parliaments lose room for maneuvers, and citizens lose their ability to change politics through a ballot box. CETA brings more genetic engineering to Europe. Canada is among the main exporters of GMOs around the world. Article 25.2(2) explicitly states the reduction of adverse commercial influences from regulatory practices in the field of biodesigned products as the objective of the agreement. This can only mean that the EU will eventually have to open its market for genetically modified products. What is important to say is that over one third of the European Parliament's MPs voted against the CETA agreement. For example, the Social Democrats club was mostly against the CETA agreement, and the Social Democratic Party in Croatia will unanimously support the CETA agreement. And that is actually an indication of the state of consciousness of the SDP of such important problems and such agreements. And then they're surprised that their popularity is falling politically. I would also recommend, on this occasion, all local and regional governments in Croatia access to the Barcelona Declaration adopted on 21 April 2016, with over 2000 units of local self-government from the EU against TTIP, CETA and TISA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42507	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I can see that you're worried about this SDP attitude on this issue. In the context of this story of yours, I would say whether Croatia should be Croatia or perhaps Croatia, after what you pulled out, so only the negative aspects of a contract like this should be North Korea or something. So, the island somewhere on some waterless ocean and be isolated and watch what it can do self-sufficiently. Of course that's not the answer. Therefore, we must make sure that the opening of the border and that you only call liberalisation has its positive aspects and that is one incentive, so a new opportunity. Unfortunately, our relations with Canada are at a relatively low level of external trade. They are practically negligible, when you look in the overall context of external trade flows, and even with Europe it is not something at a large level. And now you get out of this where 230 thousand people are going to lose their jobs, that it looks really dramatic, but that's the EU, someone just said 510 million people live there and work. And I would ask a question so which politician, not only were these Social Democrats who were in the EU Parliament, against, but who were these others who were in favour? If it's the effects of that contract, just what you said. It's impossible that it's just an effect. You understand? Therefore, someone likely tried to measure these effects and saw that the positive effects with Canada could be regulated by such a contract, yet stronger and greater than those negative effects you are talking about in isolation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42509	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of the Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42510	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here, Mr. Greek, you can tell that story to those who are uninformed, but you, in the SDP government, were one of the main advocates of liberalisation, such as deregulation of such fiscal consolidation, you were one of the main advocates of restrictions, increasing VAT, austerity measures. So that's all your policy, directed by the international monetary fund, Mr. Greek, and I don't want Croatia to be North Korea. I want Croatia to be one democratic country in which such agreements, which will be reviewed, will be analysed, has Croatia done an analysis of the study agreement on CETA? Here's a question for the secretary of state. Did she do it? Do you have any quantitative data or did you come here with propaganda and you think we're going to listen to such propaganda here? That there are no people who think for themselves. The Croatian public is not informed at all. The Croatian public is not informed at all about this agreement. Representatives in the European Parliament have not done their main duty at all, and you are dragging us into an agreement like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42511	Now, state secretary Zdravka Busic will take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just want to answer to the honourable representative, that as far as Valonia is concerned, and I want to explain it one more time. It means as far as Belgium is concerned, that Valonia has conditioned the signing by asking the European Court to assess the compliance of the ICS with EU law. But, Your Honor, Agent, you know it's over and it's signed. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here today to discuss it. And especially when you know that both Latvia and Denmark have ratified, how would those two ratify? Here's what I want, because you called me here, that's not true. However, I kindly ask you to take a closer look at what Valonia conditioned and how it was signed, that is, how Belgium reacted in this case. Otherwise we wouldn't have this today, we wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42513	Thank you very much. The replica of the esteemed representative, Marian Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42514	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here's the secretary of state, you say Latvia and Denmark have ratified. And why must Croatia be among the first countries to ratify this agreement? For what reason? Why in the European Parliament, no Croatian representative was against the CETA agreement. So only representatives from Estonia and Croatia were all for the CETA agreement. For example. I've got statistics here, I've got as many votes as I've voted from other parliamentarians. For example. The French representatives, the majority of them were against the CETA agreement. The euro representatives from Austria, most of them against the CETA agreement, from Greece, were equally, the majority of them were against the CETA agreement from Ireland. So it's about one piece of information that you haven't exposed to the Croatian public, and you're pushing us among the first to sign an agreement with Canada. I find that inconclusive and irresponsible, and the citizens will judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42515	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives of the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42516	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today as we see and hear the topic is CETA Canada compatible Economic and Trade Agreement Croatian would say a comprehensive economic and trade agreement. For 7 years, this agreement has been negotiated, and this is the first such agreement between the EU and one member of the G7. The fundamental idea of this agreement is to encourage trade and investment, strengthen economic yields between the EU and Canada and increase employment. From what I have said, it is logical to expect benefits for all EU citizens, workers and consumers, of course for companies. Besides, today we've heard relatively little about what I'm about to say, and I don't think it's any less important. I firmly believe that the vast majority of Croatian citizens, of course the EU, share the same fundamental values with Canada. That... Democracy, the market economy, climate protection, if you want the rule of law, protection of minorities, there's a lot of that kind of value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is actually the basis between what we are talking about today and relations between the EU and Croatia with Canada. I will not long list the basic elements of CETA for those I think are valuable and important mentions, and some will hopefully respond to the criticisms we heard today at CETA. So the first is the reduction of customs duties over 98% and the elimination of double taxation, proven to foster economics and competitiveness. European exporters will save 500m euros annually on these tariffs. Some of these thank God exporters are also Croatian companies. Elimination of technical barriers to trade, certification, accreditation of studies. There's a lot of those who talk about it, and of course they've never exported one euro of goods in their lives to help big corporations. It's completely wrong and quite the opposite of what it is, so the exact opposite of large corporations have money, have time, have resources to do what was previously asked for certified, accredited for years. Small, medium-sized ones do not have these resources and this is exactly what helps them, and it will be seen very quickly from Croatia's exports to Canada, and I'm sure of it. And when you're exporting somewhere else, it's a natural flow of stuff that you usually do import. Nothing in life is one-way. Anything that's one-way short. Furthermore, the opening of the service market and the promotion of EU investment fully protects public services. Furthermore, the investment protection system, it has already been said here today, retains the rights of national governments to regulation in the public interest even when such regulations adversely affect foreign investment. You'd be able to talk about it, but here's the fact. In the system of dispute resolution between investors and states, national European Parliaments play a key role, guaranteeing the right to adopt regulations covering public courts, qualified judges, transparent procedures and appeal mechanisms. We've heard enough about that today. It's okay to express suspicion, but there's no need to deceive the public. Furthermore, the opening of public procurement markets and the protection of intellectual property, easier to move employees between the EU and Canada, and mutual recognition of qualifications. And in the end, it's not the least bit about sustainable development. So the goal is to contribute to protecting the environment and labour rights. There is something called the CETA Joint Committee, the decisions of the Joint Committee cannot be bypassed or put out of effect the requirements of European founding contracts. Food safety standards will not change, I stress, nor will food safety standards or any other EU regulations that we have adopted change. As far as our Croatian position is concerned, allow me to do this first of all is actually a topic today, I would like to highlight a few points of importance. If Canada, which has said, is Mrs. Busic, 35 million people versus 500 million people minus 65, soon millions of UK residents, but I also stress figures regarding the GDP, so $1.5 billion versus $17 billion EU GDP. If Canada's not afraid of competition, I don't know why we should be afraid. We have entered the EU with full faith and over the past years if we were to manage even better and do what is necessary for the Croatian economy to be more competitive and Croatian businesses, then the results for Croatia and Croatian citizens would be even better and then the young would not go out. So here I want to repeat, and this has been proven over the past few years and can Mr. Pernar make fun of bananas and cars, but the figures are inexorable, a little study of them fellow. So, first and foremost, mid- and small entrepreneurs took their backs out of recession and crisis, employed despite all obstacles and difficulties over the past years. The second thing I want to point out, which is we're a small economy and we need to be open, if we're not open, it's impossible to realise our economic potential. I will speak at least here today about Croatian tourism, thank God we have it, it draws us from the good part of our own incompetence and wrong moves. However, if we are really going to talk seriously in the conference on industry, energy, transport and logistics as a consequence or an opportunity given our geostrategic position, it is possible to achieve everything exclusively in cooperation with international partners, states and private companies. It doesn't go any different. You cannot use Croatian geostrategic potential, railways, railways if you do not do so with international partners. Of course, the Croatian state should choose which partners it will be and of course we have chosen by our presence or participation in the NATO Alliance and the EU. And third, Canadian Croats. Today there was little talk about it, relatively little. Canadian Croats, but not only Canadian Croats, we don't know the number, we're talking about a few million, today they represent the greatest potential in the medium term that Croatia has. Not only economically, not only in the direction of exports or imports, cooperation and investment, if you want demographically, and the consequences are the new skills and skills that Canadian Croats bring to Croatia every day. Here yesterday I welcome my dear friend and ambassador of Canada Mr. Maximiuk, yesterday we were at the celebration of 150 years of the Canadian State and there some were also given the prizes. Canadian Croats who returned years ago to Croatia are hiring, investing, doing business for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I believe. So that's the potential. All those who oppose the agreement, this agreement, and yesterday I spoke frankly and openly in the announcement of today's debates essentially oppose Croatia's membership in the EU. Exactly because the foundation is the same, the common values are the same, everything, fundamentally because we're talking about something that's very similar, and that's something that rests on the free flow of people and goods. This is one of the foundations of the EU. And because we are not competitive, we will not start to blame others for not being competitive or for closing down Croatian companies. Well, it's not our fault that some other young people go to Ireland and Germany, so we're not gonna blame the Germans and the Irish tomorrow. We can only blame ourselves, no. So I think it's time that after 25, 26 years we might admit in this assembly that there are some basic rules of the competition, the market economy for which we collectively, dominantly defined ourselves 26 years ago, thank God that we are and that we see and listen to and in this assembly people who have been doing it for decades. So there are three companies, which are global leaders today, that are super competitive, that came from zero after 1991, by zero, thanks to their founders. While-Ing company that manufactures the best demining machines in the world, HS-product weapons, guns and rifles export to the most demanding markets in the world. The Roman cars were saddened to read the other day and listen to the comments when that Hammond guy crashed into the car by Matta Roman. I mean instead of being proud of it and these companies being proof that we can be successful, super-successful in the whole world. There. So I believe, in the end, that the fundamental task of this Croatian Parliament and every parliamentary assembly, each government, is that conditions are firstly created for the prosperity of these companies, thousands of other private companies and the creation of hundreds of similar companies that can prove and prove every day that we Croats can be globally successful and competitive. Here's the HDZ vote for this agreement and I urge you all to do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42517	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to represent the Honorable Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42518	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, I have listened carefully to your presentations, and in most cases, I would agree with everything. If we had opened 50 years ago today it would have certainly been one of Europe's most modern states. Unfortunately, 26 years ago, and here we are. We are exactly a small business. We know that this part and this Canadian agreement Europe is very, very much protecting itself. We are a small country that doesn't have much influence on any agreement and so on on all the imports and exports that are going on in Europe. I'm a man who deals with the same entrepreneurship, I know what it's like to be open, I know what it is to spread. I think we are all deluded if we think about GMO food, which I agree should not come to Croatia or Europe, and we know that we have modernised food production in Croatia and Europe as well. Let's remember 50 years ago that hungry children came to Slavonia. Shall we go back to that part? Therefore, people are progressing, the world is increasing, food needs to be modernised, not all GMOs, but certainly take care of it all. I think that Croatia is going in one good direction, we are not a country that we can decide, we can certainly suggest and give our opinions. And I don't think that this part of the agreement between Europe and Canada can have any special impact but we certainly have to give our opinion and I hope that it will be in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42519	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42520	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Misic, thank you for what you said. Well, we can't get time back, unfortunately. We have all sinned in life, the Croatian state has sinned and, from these mistakes, all individually, familylylyly, however, we should learn nationally and the best time for change is today. Tomorrow, it might be late, the day after tomorrow, and what happened yesterday is just we can't go back. So here we are today, here we are all with our heads, our life experiences, our work experience, and I think we can contribute if we want to, but first of all, in one constructive, polite, reasoned debate. I have in the last six months, I have to admit to you quite rarely I've spoken, very rarely, because mostly in the last six months you've been listening not to a constructive debate, not to a reasoned debate, false information. This is not a good way to go and Croatian citizens listen to it. And that's why our position as politicians or parliamentarians is irrelevant to which foreigners belong. And every time I pay my respects to anyone who's been elected to the Croatian Parliament. I can disagree with 100 grand every time. Is that the Living Wall, is that the SDP, is that the Most, according to anyone. And I expect and pray that we all do it because that is the only way we will really do it, and everyone likes to talk about it back to the Croatian Assembly and Croatian politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42521	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42522	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. In order to return to the Croatian Assembly, it must simply be more questioned to call it agreements similar to these. So we don't have any analysis, scientific analysis, cost benefit analysis. And you made a list of good wishes. However, you have not debated on the basis of any arguments. For example. in the 12th month of 2016 The Employment Committee in the European Parliament has found that the agreement puts 90 million jobs at risk. Do you know about this information? Do Parliamentarians know about this information? They don't know because it's not their fault. They just don't put this subject on the table in public. So the media isn't interested. Do you see any of the media representatives here? No, I don't. But when some topics are irrelevant and interesting, when conflicts occur, then there is a lot of media here, everyone wants to know what someone said but these important topics for the Croatian economy, for young people these topics are placed in the periphery. And for such reasons, neither the Croatian Parliament nor the politicians will return.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42523	Thank you. The response of the esteemed Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42524	Young colleague, I really respect you, I respect first of all the fact that you were elected by Croatian citizens to this House. But I'd love to hear it and I haven't heard anything, but nothing from these few of your chairs that you suggest? What are you, what are your solutions? What are your real solutions besides printing money and sharing on the road? That's what I can mostly sum up in the last six months that I've heard. Here, I didn't hear anything else. Don't be angry that I'm saying this now, honestly, if you have this right now, unfortunately you can't answer it, you have next month's answers, your colleagues on the right of you sitting, what do you suggest to the Croatian public? That's what I'd like to hear. That it's no good, that it's no good. Well, we all know a lot of things that are wrong and what needs to be fixed, and we're here with that job. But tell me what you would do and how? That young people are leaving so we all know that, no one is normal with it and we're trying to do something here. It's not a problem to be, we've seen it. It's easy to be in Croatia against. Why don't you go get something and suggest something? Yesterday you proposed that law, it will pass. Here, suggest your colleagues as well. But just don't suggest we dismember the CNB and print the money and end up not as Greece but as three Argentinas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42525	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42526	Dear fellow Milosevic, I have listened carefully to your presentation, but what is important to emphasize, you have said to fellow Scybol that he has not presented any reasons why we would be against this agreement, but also, no regulation impact assessment procedure has been carried out in order not to spread any, as you say false information, intimidated the public and our citizens, and therefore the most likely position of MOST will be to conduct this process to go to another reading. We don't know and the citizens don't know, I'm convinced here by the vast majority of MPs who are the advantages of this agreement but which are possible, means there may also be some negative consequences for Croatian construction, according to the Croatian economy. Our haste in many procedures in many agreements here in the Croatian Parliament has brought us great problems. Now we've got a big slap from Berlin. The German Embassy says that Croatia must respect the arbitration court's decision whatever it may be, and in 2010, we entered the agreement, in one way, I was here this morning talking about where we decided on the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations, not just as we should have on the principle of international law. And that was a mistake. We crashed at the time because we wanted to join the EU as soon as possible. There is no one here, I don't know now my colleagues from the Living Wall, no one opposes the EU, cooperation, the development of partnerships, the expansion of the market, but we need to see what is concrete, which agreement brings us. Now, we got that slap, because it's gone bad. Of course, we won't respect that decision, it's clear that this court is compromised, but we'd have much better arguments if we'd been more careful, and you're forcing us not to question. We will question every decision and so will this agreement, and I ask that the process of assessing the effects of the regulations be carried out that then the entire public knows what we are getting and what we are losing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42527	Thank you. The response of the respected Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42528	In this area, I can generally agree with you. However, when you used the term to crash, then it associated me with some of them talking out there in the '90s, to crash. Someone's going to say that we broke up, wait till I'm done, that we've crashed into the EU. Has anyone made an economic assessment, financial analysis and everything else? It's not. Is it possible to make them? I'm not sure. I'm not sure, we should ask the macro-economicists, if it's really possible in the 21st century when really in the next six months, you don't know what the new technological challenge is. So, did we join the EU? I believe that we are a large majority in both the Parliament and Croatia today for this decision. Do you get anything in life just positive? Well, no. You get both good and bad in life. And your skill, as well as the state of the nation, to make those advantages better and smarter, stronger, stronger, whatever the negative. We all have good and bad sides. So is the state. So that's how I see it. So at some point, you can analyze it, I agree. You need a mass of whatever can be calculated, you need to calculate, but some things can't be calculated. And which times should we have a simple faith in something. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42529	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The precise debate of fellow Milosevic, very simple. Why are we so skeptical of everything? I mean, for everything. We say GMOs, we say more than 2,000 regulations, all laws that are passed in the direction of opening the market, opening new opportunities, and you and new jobs, should give them a chance. Here's what you were just talking about. Of course, the mechanisms of protection of the law in practice are the only and one of the assumptions that they would have a good life. As a good example of the application of the law in practice, the Ministry of Agriculture which introduces such measures to protect Croatian peasants, the OPGs, agricultural products, that many who have hunted in the cloudy sectors in all sectors of agriculture have receded and trends can all be stopped. Therefore, ensuring quality application and implementation of the law in practice is a fundamental task for all concerned, and for future and legal purposes. The state and its institutions through law enforcement and control of the agreement will ensure the true meaning and purpose of this. Is this proposal an opportunity for our large and small businessmen and the opening of new opportunities for the Croatian economy and thus for the Republic of Croatia? This is essentially a key issue to be asked when we are also talking about this proposal for a possible agreement with Canada. Is this an opportunity for the Republic of Croatia or is it another story that won't do you any good? I believe it will bring good because it is a new opportunity and unknowns will be removed by faith, by law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42531	Thank you. The response of the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42532	Thank you, colleague Šipić, so I don't know if anyone really believes in the 21st century that it can be better, faster and smarter without competition and without effort and work. I hope the big majority don't. I didn't get an answer from my colleague Pernar about that question. He as a young man, whether he believes in competition or does not believe. I believe it myself. I think that without competition and without competition, neither will we be better nor will we stop young and ambitious and talented people leaving Croatia, nor will our businesses be better and better quality, nor will we employ more people, nor will we achieve economic war nor will we result in more money for pensions, for social benefits for better education, here I believe. And actually it's quite simple, it's some kind of foundation, someone's going to say liberal democracy, someone here is going to say ugly neoliberalism, I don't know, I believe in competition. At the end of the line and parliamentary democracy is currently resting at the competition. If it wasn't for that competition, a lot of us wouldn't be here. In this assembly. So let's start with that and then, given that the economy is primarily the result of social and political events, progress or a setback of this social one. Then you simply need to direct those processes in the right direction. Of course there will be differences, of course we won't get along often, but I think some fundamental settings I think in the 21st century should be taken as healthy for the finished ones. We're just not big, we have the resources we have. Let's use them, let's make the Croats better alive, much better. We have the potential to live much better, let alone leave Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42533	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42534	Thank you very much. A fellow Milosevic, listening to this debate in this House today, reminds me overwhelmingly of the debates that Croatia has been conducting negotiations to join the EU. So the opponents were saying no, no, no. Come on, we're a member of the EU for almost four years, so we'll see the benefits of that. Would exports have grown as much as they did during the economic crisis if we hadn't opened the EU borders. These are our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who did the most going and selling their goods and their services. So that's one thing. You mentioned several successful Croatian companies. We can mention them more. However, these Croatian companies are successful for the biggest reason that they have managed to come to this world market and this world market has made them even more successful. Just as it is irrefutable that in Croatia both in Slovenia and in some other countries resulting from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, many companies have disappeared for one single reason because of the disappearance of the clinical market and the markets of 20 million have disappeared. It's just a fact. Not just, it's not just a privatisation problem. So, with this agreement, we are opening up space just as the EU has opened up a space for withdrawing funds from the EU funds from a small municipality, small environments that have been successful, which have realized what they can take from it and said it can be done. And those who keep thinking that they're going to fall something out of the sky didn't do anything, and it's always someone else's fault. So I use that sports termology if you want to be good, you have to play in a strong league, because you're the only one among the strong and the real players you're proving yourself to be. And a small Croatian economy with such a small main market, with such a low ability to absorb the Croatian population because of the low standard simply without this game cannot go forward and we must be aware of that. No one can do us harm and no one can protect us unless we do it to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42535	Thank you. The response of the respected Milosevic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42536	Thank you, fellow Shuker. I couldn't agree more. I will complement you with one important topic for Croatian tourism. I'm sure we'll agree to all 151 at least around tourism. Tourism is super important. Tourists welcome to Croatia. Well, does anyone really think you can choose it in the 21st century so you'll take tourists from Germany, but we won't let the Germans sell machines in Croatia? Or do we want Canadian tourists, but we with Canadians, you know, wouldn't do something else that doesn't suit us? Guys, let's get some consciousness. And secondly, you mentioned the economic benefits. Yesterday there was a lot of speech here when the prime minister had an exhibition on other benefits for Croatia, I believe that the benefits – security and defence. In the increasingly complex 21st century geopolitically, however you wish, geostrategic I think that participation, or membership of the Croatian NATO Alliance in the EU, is a great benefit for Croatia's security and defence. Migration. Migration won't stop. By 2050, Africa will have two and a half billion inhabitants. Today there are a billion and 250 million. That's 33 years from now. Can Croatia really deal with this alone or is what counterpart Shuker said well, quite well that it belongs to the club of the best, strongest. I just hope we don't get any further down at the bottom, now we're still at the bottom, and we need to be aware that we're at the bottom. And when you realize you're somewhere at the bottom, then you start working so you won't be at the bottom anymore. I think of economic opportunities and the fact that we are soon being overtaken by Romania. In all this, of course, no one in this assembly will ever, I'm sure, forget about Croatian national interests. But they may not be a few times, but rarely, but Croatian national interests are not contrary to what we are talking about today. I personally think they're completely parallel and consistent especially when we're talking about CETA. That's where we're all invited to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42537	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric will now speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42538	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Today we heard in the discussions and positive and negative things of this bill, but I would refer before my presentation to this communication, i.e. the replication of my colleagues Grumoja and his colleagues Milosevic, where he actually said that he agrees with his colleague, Grumo, that we should also analyse and make an assessment of the effects of the regulations, but that sometimes we should simply react in faith and agree to certain things that not everything can always be positive. Well, even in that part, I agree with you that sometimes we have to react that way, but this isn't the moment. And you know why he didn't? Because there's absolutely no obstacle for us to go to another reading, to really analyze, to make an assessment of the effects of the regulations, to really discuss and that without that faith, so black white on paper really knows what's good, which is not. And you know why there is no such obstacle? Because this agreement applies only after it has been ratified by all Member States, and we have heard it today and we know that it is currently ratified by only two, so Latvia and Denmark. Even Estonia, which unanimously supported this agreement in the EU, has not yet ratified the agreement. All Member States are currently discussing this agreement and therefore I do not see why we are in a hurry. Because it seems to me that this haste actually more of a desire to prove someone, and it puts itself in front of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We must not allow it here especially not in the Parliament, we are chosen here by the people. Now I'm going to go with my exposure. So this proposal for an agreement has positive things and we support them. I agree with them, I'll count them. I'll even tell you some examples from my experience. Therefore, we support the elimination of customs duties for our exporters especially because, according to the 2015 information, 87m euros of goods and services were achieved on the route from Canada and Croatia. That's a good thing that brings us this agreement. It is also prescribed to remove technical barriers in the field of technical regulations relating to standards, transcription, certification and accreditation. Here I will also tell you from my experience, that especially since I have experience with young innovators, manufacturers that up to a year and a half are products in Croatia because they couldn't export it outside. This is a good thing of this regulation. The agreement also includes modern investment rules retaining the government's rights to public interest regulation, including when such regulations affect foreign investment, while ensuring high investment level protection and ensuring fair and transparent dispute resolution. A foreign investor, will not have a more favourable treatment than a domestic investor, investors can choose legal protection in domestic courts, cover clearly defined standards of investment protection, including fair and fair treatment and empowerment to provide clear guidance to courts for settlement of disputes, leaving the traditional approach to settlement of investment disputes and establishing independent, impartial foreign investment courts. Also, in the field of intellectual property, I expect the approximation of the EU and Canada markets in the field of copyright, protection of laws and design, and Canada is committed to this agreement, an agreement to protect 143 products because the products are geographical indications from the EU, and at the moment there are no Croatian products, because the lists are agreed before the Croatian membership of the EU and the list will increase the fee. The agreement also provides for a framework to facilitate mutual recognition, qualifications, professions, such as architects, accountants, engineers in such a way as to conclude an additional agreement on mutual recognition of the profession between the EU and Canada. The Joint Committee is also being established, even you mentioned it in your presentation, which will continuously monitor the implementation of the functioning and impact of the agreement. These are, therefore, all the positive things that this agreement brings to us, but in recent days, we have received a series of criticisms and remarks from both citizens and from various professional associations and organisations. And since we, as Parliamentarians, are actually elected here in this house to represent the voice of the people, that is, to say what people want us to say on their behalf, then it is essentially our duty to do so. And just by putting this agreement into another reading we'd have time to look, discuss, check all the information they're talking about and actually put everything on paper and know what's good and what's bad. I don't claim that all of this agreement is well, as I don't claim that all of this agreement is bad. Yeah, duck, I think we have a lot of strangers here and we need to discuss them. I will just say that the accelerated ratification in the Croatian Parliament will not bring us any specific legal effects in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia at the moment, until the contract is ratified by other Member States. It should also be noted that according to the annual plan published normative activities for 2017, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of this law is foreseen in 4th quarter of 2017. In that sense, to note that the applicant has in no way explained the deviation from the expected dynamics of the CETA validation, here I hope that we will get that answer today, and is proposed in the emergency procedure on 13 April 2017, the 21st Parliament accepts an emergency procedure. Furthermore, by considering the text of the draft law at first sight, it is possible to note that the international contract which is subject to the confirmation of the Croatian Parliament is, in fact, a legal act, a significant scope, which it has, we have already mentioned over 2,000 pages, which regulates a number of individual legal substances, starting with customs, subsidies, treatment and protection of investments, labour mobility and mutual recognition of professional qualifications, up to financial services, international maritime transport, telecommunications, electronic trade, competition policy, public procurement, intellectual property, environmental protection, the protection of the rights of workers of sustainable development and the like. So, I think it is clear to all of us that with the full application of the CETA, the full implementation of the CETA will result in significant legal, economic, social and other effects of this Treaty, and for this very reason it is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, first in the Assembly, will adopt a second reading, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall carry out the process of assessing the effects of the regulations by the second reading, and provide evidence of the established effects of the Croatian Parliament. We believe that this will allow representatives in the Croatian Parliament to make an informed decision on the confirmation of CETA. This will enable the interested public to be involved in the CETA debate, which is particularly important because of the removal of various complaints about the existence of a democratic deficit when it comes to the conclusion, in this case to confirm the comprehensive international agreements which are parties to both the EU and EU Member States. I also believe on behalf of the club that the democratic debate on this bill, which would be carried out on the basis of objectively established facts, hence the estimated effects of the law, will show a significant future benefit to the Croatian economy and society as a whole. So we're going to ask, to carry out an impact assessment of regulations on regulations as well as other readings, because I think we're really in no hurry, we have arguments, we're all aware that application can't go until all the Member States ratify the agreement. I really don't see why we can't have another reading, which is why we can't discuss this at the very least and put away everything you said, that we often have negative and bad or semi-information that comes to the Parliament, so here we go to discuss it, let's finally go with clean, quality information, something and confirm, unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42539	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42540	Dear colleague Ivana, I entered this world of politics for over six years ago, where analysis, plans, such a foundation are real. And I've often been frustrated for the past six and a half years that didn't do analysis, comparative analysis, but today's not the day for those analyses that you're calling for. It's not that day, and I'll try to tell you why. First because seven years were negotiated on this agreement, seven years. I don't know, 3 Croatian governments took part in it, more or less, I don't know. I was only in that one year in 2011. So, the agreement is the date of 2017 this agreement is the date. And when we have decided on this model of democracy, presidential democracy, which means that people choose parliamentary deputies, or parliamentary deputies, they elect governments, governments negotiate, negotiate, and then eventually such agreements are ratified. I don't really see what we would do, except waste time, in the second reading. We would listen to the same debate today, the arguments would be the same, they would be nothing smarter than us or Croatian citizens who would only listen to it more frustratingly because here is a waste of time for what we have already discussed. Instead, let's take a step forward, let's take it once we, I've heard it many times today, it's really the way it is for me not to use some ugly expression sad that we're putting ourselves together with this agreement. So did we come to that? So who would we be courting? Canadian Croats? To Croatian companies that will export there tomorrow. The ones they're going to import? I mean, there's only talk here about exports now, so there are companies that hire people who import goods from Madagascar, so what are we gonna do about shutting them down because they're importing goods from Madagascar. Well, someone's not making what's being produced in Madagascar, huh, my God? Maybe the climate isn't the same. So today is not the day, there is no need for another reading, nothing will change until then, we will lose unnecessary time. That's what I said the agreement was... so let's all vote together and let's go help after these people that we all swear on today to these exporters, producers, small farmers that they can be more competitive and hire people to do their job properly and pay a bigger tax in this country, relatively higher. So I'm pushing for smaller taxes so someone doesn't get it wrong. It's been a while, but here I was trying to make some arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42541	A colleague of Ninčević-Lesandric will answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42542	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This part for exporters and entrepreneurs I think it's clear that we agree here. I don't understand what's the problem with the second reading. You say you've been involved in these negotiations for seven years, here I am not. ... Okay. But I don't see any reason why we're in a hurry if we can discuss it in a second reading. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what you mentioned is that it is sad to talk about advocacy, I think that all the people who mentioned it today have even been offered that statement by the Ambassador of Canada, which is what it said in the media that it hopes Croatia will be among the first EU members to accept this agreement because it is good for it as a member of the EU. That's not what I said, so it basically points to what people say, and you say it's sad. But we're not going to talk about this now, we're going to talk about this agreement that we're looking for a second reading just for a series of criticisms and remarks that we've received from citizens of various associations and organizations, and it's our duty as an agent to take these suggestions and criticisms to discuss them, to check them out at the very end, and then after the second reading, we know what it's for exactly what we're raising our hand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42543	Thank you. Perhaps just before we move on to the next replica of our colleagues, Bulja is only clear for the sake of all agreements, so not all agreements, but all agreements are such a character between the European Community and anything else, such a character that they are already negotiated. Thus, our second, third, or any reading cannot affect that. We can accept it or we can reject it, not accept it, but we can't change it. It's very important that we all know because we just know what we're talking about. I had a need to say that. The same respected representative, Miro Bulj, will say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your colleagues as an entrepreneur, and now the chairman of the sessions has said that it has already been negotiated, and it is up to us at the council to raise the handle or not. So we were absolutely not asked anything, and the fact is that you have well noticed that on the side of the motions on this agreement we do not have the effects of these regulations, as so far in a number of regulations, not only in the case of Canada but also in the case of CETA, but also in EU accession we have always called for competitiveness, to increase the market, but everything that has been voted for so far we have doubts, not only of doubt, but we have visible effects since we entered the EU on the issue and on the economy, and in particular agriculture. I just know that we used to have 64 thousand before we joined the EU 64 thousand dairy producers, now we have 4600. I know we had 70% coverage of the product with milk, now we have no 20% we have very small. So we absolutely parliamentary representatives have the right to a second reading is certainly neither the promoter nor Mr Milosevic who has participated in all these negotiations for seven years as he stressed whether you were a minister and when you enter the EU, it is certain that they know something better, but the fact that a parliamentary representative is voting on something that needs to be opened to the public, that we need another reading of this agreement is that we do not know the effects on the economy, on imports, on exports, on competitiveness. Will it be of exclusive interest even to GMO products, that this food will end up on Croatian shelves without any control, why wouldn't we know the Croatian public? What's the problem? Not 2,300 pages of paper so we can't discuss whether or not the proposing is familiar with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42545	Thank you. Answer or whatever respected MPs Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42546	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's what I'm going to do again, or I'm going to read it myself, and I just said it earlier in the presentation, and I hope we get an answer from the proposing. So according to the annual plan of normative activities published for 2017, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia... is not until 4th quarter of 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the microphone.]] What is the rush that we now have to pass this law by an urgent procedure if it is in your plan, so the government's plan was scheduled to go to 4th quarter this year. I think the answer to this question gives us the answer to all these questions that we have all day in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42547	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42548	Dear colleagues, you're saying we need an impact assessment of the rules, but I'd say we'd need first of all an assessment of the effects of lies. Today so that Canadians and anyone else can trust us a little bit more. Yesterday I look at the news and today I read in the press how Mayor Anusic in Baranja opened the largest irrigation system in Croatia lateral channel of the Princes of Vinogradi – Dragonjac. He did so with the presence of Ministers Tomislav Tolusic, Tomislav Ćoric and General Director of Croatian Waters Zoran Đurokovic. He says that that channel is worth 129 million kuna. This would be great news so it wouldn't all be a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42549	My fellow Stazic, that has nothing to do with what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42550	There is, there is, about assessing the effects of regulations and assessing the effects of lies and letting me talk, stop interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42551	No, I'm sorry, but you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42552	This channel opened on 8 June 2015 and was released. And I know this is embarrassing for you to listen to because once again something has been stolen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42553	No, no, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42554	You stole the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42555	Now I warn you: Yes, I warn you because you insulted me, personally. [[/Intruder Stazic: And you remind me?]] I won't let you, yes. [[Intruder Stazic: And you do not allow me to say.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42556	If your government had stolen a project opened by Zoran Milanovic, then Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina, Mayor Šišljagic, in the presence of parliamentary representatives among whom I was alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42557	I now warn you by taking away words because you speak beyond theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42558	What was opened yesterday, it's some kind of lateral open channel network worth barely 18 million kuna. So I wonder if you have to steal everything except the diplomas you buy? You've got to steal everything and the results... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42559	You'd probably like to be kicked out of the gym right now, but I won't afford it. I won't allow you to be on the cover again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42560	So how will the Canadians or anyone else believe you? Explain that to me, how? What are you making laws for? For what? ... And you didn't, look, so everyone sees this, so everyone in Baranja knows this, so everyone knows it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, you painted the tunnels four times. How many times do you think you're gonna open a lateral channel? Should we tell that to the Canadians and the Canadian ambassador? If they knew, they wouldn't be surprised when you reopened the 128 million-dollar channel next year. And last time, Vice President, please stop interrupting me, you won't succeed, and don't shut me up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42561	Comrade Stazić, I know that you want to get to the front page, I know that you have problems that are in the party of various currents etc., I guess you want to prove it, etc., but you will not succeed that way. You received it because you did not respect the Rules of Procedure which you know well and knowingly and deliberately violate, a reminder by taking away words. So please don't do this in the future. Don't do that in the future. Indeed, this is what you show disrespect, not only to me, but you have offended me, but you are insulting your colleagues as well. You could have said all that, for example, if you'd asked for a break. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you know that. And yet you knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure. Are your colleagues, here are your colleagues, satisfied with that, do they think that's how we Parliamentarians will raise our dignity? I doubt it. The distinguished representative Ninacevic-Lesandric will say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42562	And you said rightly I'd say something, because I don't know what to say anymore after these discussions of yours at my fair. I will return to this impact assessment on the regulations that I consider really important so that we do not have these things happening to us but I simply cannot comment on it, so I am not defending you or Mr. Stazic or Milosevic, but I am expressing my position, which is that you cannot tell any representative that he will not use the replica to come to the front page. So you're violating the freedom of the media. Well, I guess they have a right to decide who's going to say something and what they're going to put in the media according to what someone said, you can't decide that. Because if you or anyone can decide what the media is going to write then I was just about to say, then we don't have to be surprised at the situation we're in today. So just be careful when you comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42563	Comrade Ninčević-Lesandric, thank you for reminding me that I should be careful, not me, you know what I said very well. You know very well what I said. I'm just saying that breaking the Rules of Procedure can't get to the cover, and that's obviously the goal of such outbursts. And I'm asking that it doesn't turn out like that. On no one's side. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42564	Thank you, Vice President, I'm always on the subject, if you haven't noticed. First of all, I don't mind reading anything else, so let me get this straight. However, it is quite unclear to me how there may be ambiguity and some misunderstandings in a document that has been clearly available since 2014 on the European Commission's pages. I was so sadistic about myself in the last meeting of the Parliament, I went to read that document from over 2,000 pages. So all activities of bilateral, multilateral, activities between Member States and even studies have been available to you publicly on the European Commission's 2014 pages. The German Social Democrats, who were initially rebelling against some other civil initiatives and Mr Lang, who runs the board, knows counterpart Busic, the European Parliament for international trade, claims that in this agreement, CETA is one, TTIP is another, that we understand, a level of transparency that has never been seen in any agreement just above the current standard of transparency precisely because of the pressure of civil society in Europe, which some 3 million signatures have collected against TTIP and then went to CETA even though these are two separate agreements, if I have opportunities, I will say something later. It is clear, therefore, that there must be a certain degree of confidentiality in each document, so it is clear, in addition, that on the one hand, trade with the EU, the United States is no longer having these problems that the EU has with Canada, but I stress that transparency has been achieved in these negotiations without precedent thanks to the pressure of civil society, the documents have been publicly available and are still publicly available and I really do not understand how there may be any further doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42565	Thank you. Reply by distinguished representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42566	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In 2014, when it was published on the European Commission's pages, I didn't deal with politics, however, I was doing entrepreneurship or making money so that we all here today would have our own salary, also in 2014 when you read it, I'm glad that I was making money for someone who read it, and it's commendable, but you can't expect me to know something that in 2014 stands, so no public contact at all was there that I was interested in reading one such document. Maybe that's another problem, why we as entrepreneurs aren't addressed to such things, why we don't have such a document in time, why we're not interested in reading it at all if this document, and obviously it is, affects us. A team more if it'll give us some benefits. Well, I guess we should be involved in that, give our proposals, critics, if something's wrong. So, I'm looking for a second reading, precisely because I'm not being directed and I see from the debate that most MPs, they don't even know the details of this agreement, and what's most important is that there's no obstacle to going to another reading. Even in your plan, I've now read to you that this was needed in the fourth quarter, so just let someone answer me why you've changed your own government plan, and why is it so urgent now? There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42567	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives in HSU, the next representative, Vesna Pusic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42568	... With co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, it is good that we have this debate in the Assembly, but I think it should be more of a springboard for the debate that we need and which should have continued to lead, which is how Croatia prepares and equipment to use this agreement and that, from this fact, free trade between the EU that we belong to and Canada, draws as many positive effects for the Croatian economy and for Croatian companies. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This process that started 8 years ago, so in 2009, Croatia, too, could first follow it and then participate actively from 2013 where negotiations were largely conducted with other EU members. That's what we've been involved in and what we've been able to participate in. So formulating the EU's position, vis-a-vis Canada, and then of course through negotiations with Canada, to seek a common solution. But our first task here was to position some of our vital interests as an integral part of the EU's negotiating position. And with that it went into negotiations with Canada. So, it's a job that we've been preparing ourselves for, if which we've been doing for years, of course, not just us, and certainly not in this case, given that much later we joined our influence was judgment, but of course other countries, not only governments and formal representatives of the state but civil society and representatives of civil society, and all together made this agreement unique, I would say, in the area of international trade agreements for several reasons. One of the things that makes it unique is the position contained in this agreement, related to the environment, related to the rights of workers, related to the resolution of investment disputes, and related to food safety. Many of the bile and negative attitudes that have been generated, so I would say both somewhat and against this agreement, have de facto arisen in discussions on another agreement. The discussions on TTIP, therefore, on a free trade agreement with the United States, which at the moment is on high hold, as you know, in the first place because the US administration has voiced opposition to that. Therefore, there is a large reserve towards free trade with one as seen in some other agreements, i.e. some free trade agreements. Therefore, the policy reflex of the US administration contained in me would say in the slogan "Americana First", or America first, opposes such an agreement and is very skeptical of this agreement with Europe. Many of the negative views that have been transferred or generated in the discussions on TTIP, is when TTIP, at least temporarily removed from the agenda, has been rerouted to this agreement which is indeed quite different and in my opinion should be an example of the way in which the EU is placed in formulating international trade agreements probably because the views of Canada and the EU's views are much, much more similar precisely in these environmental issues, workers' rights, food security. Standards are high on both sides and therefore it was possible to reach such an agreement as I said could serve and should insist in future that it be one standard for the conclusion of such international agreements. As far as solving investment disputes is concerned, of course, that's a big problem. But the current solution is worse than this. So, worse than that, we are now in a situation that is worse than what is predicted, significantly worse than what is provided for in this agreement. Contrary to what is heard here today, there is no imposing GMO food and products. It is mentioned explicitly the Paris Climate Agreement, which so far defines the highest standards in the management and protection and prevention of climate change that we know. So if anything, this agreement is not signed by the EU with a country that has lower or inferior standards for those who have EU countries. And if I may say so, they don't have any lower standards than we do. And by signing this agreement that we are, as we are, being exposed to the EU, we are exposed to competition. But Croatia cannot live in, can't even big countries in my opinion, and Croatia and fewer countries can't live without competition, can't live in state protectionism. And it is very unusual that those with whom I often agree who are very critical of the functioning of many institutions in our country, when it comes to such a situation, say not only Croatian institutions have to decide, there are no international standards. This is an international standard. These are in many ways the standards we need to pursue, which we still need to reach. And that's why, and from that point of view, this agreement helps us. As for the study of the impact of CETA on the Croatian economy, I agree that this should be done, I agree and I think it should be done continuously. But not to reject this agreement, but to understand how best to use it for our own economy. He brings the papers, opens up possibilities. The only thing that can threaten us is not bad conditions, but our own inability to exploit these conditions that are being opened. And that is why we need a study, to recognize and to recognise continuously where opportunities are opened for such an agreement to be used for the Croatian economy. A populist policy in both Europe and outside Europe has chosen free trade among other things as one of the objectives of its attack. However, free trade exists long before and from much earlier than any neoliberalism. There's like one form of human creativity at all, freedom of action, autonomy from direct state interventionism that I said existed long before Friedman and fathers of neoliberal economy. Therefore, our role in this whole situation as a country and here as parliamentary representatives is to try to analyze, define what this agreement brings and prepare for it and to adapt our economy. There's talk of big and small companies. It's obvious big companies are multinational. Big companies don't need this kind of agreement. Large companies already have their branches in Canada and elsewhere. These are agreements that are in the first row, this type of agreement, of course, are agreements that are primarily directed towards small and medium-sized enterprises that are not in that position as multinational companies that do not concern such agreements. And finally, as far as meeting Parliamentarians and the public is concerned. I think it's absolutely obvious that it's necessary to introduce parliamentary representatives to this, regardless of what the agreement has been available for many years, that it's necessary to get acquainted with this agreement because they're not familiar. And that the public needs to be informed of this agreement. However, this is not necessary, the way for this is not necessarily two or three readings in this House, although if you agree I do not see any problem in having this done in two readings. But that changes things, they won't do anything. So, we are not discussing here today what was discussed 8 years ago, 7 years, 3 years ago, the content of the agreement between the EU and Canada. We are today discussing the ratification of this agreement and it is not true that we could not participate in its articulation, we could, but today we are not participating in any other reading or any of us will not participate in the change in the content of the agreement. Because history doesn't start with us. This particular one began in 2009. But what we can participate in, and I think we should take part in, is that the wider the public learns about the opportunities that are being opened and the content or parts of the content of this agreement, and that can also be organised a symposium and a round table and a public debate on the content and possibilities that CETA brings with it. Another reading can be arranged, but I don’t see what the other reading changes. However, if colleagues feel that this is so important and that they care so much about it, without further ado, but neither in the second reading nor in the first agreement can change. Our club will support ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42569	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first one is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42570	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with counterpart Pusic, that the second reading will not help the text of the agreement to be read by those who have not read it so far. I guess I'm not too critical. I'm glad you mentioned Milton Friedman, because he said, I remember once, that if some politicians put them in the Sahara, the desert, after five years, there would be a shortage of sand. So the literature is welcome. When you mentioned the difference between TTIP and CETA, that's what you need to say, and it's not clear enough and I see that you speak very highly of it. TTIP also has political connotations, and CETA is gone. Both CETA and TTIP, apart from two separate agreements, is the fundamental difference that, unlike CETA, TTIP enters that area, as is said, regulatory cooperation and affects the EU's internal market, unlike CETA, and therefore TTIP has other than economic and political influence. When I read the study about the CETA, somewhere I found that the Swedish coups claimed that the fears caused by those chapters where you mentioned the influence of a multinational company on governments and the possibility of amending the law, completely unfounded, because just the individual CETA chapters, they highlight the non-discriminatory relationship on the market with producers, Croatia as a country with which it is a relatively small economy, it is precisely what a fair and equal relationship is clearly defined in the CETA text. Therefore, I believe that, of course, civil activistism should be critically re-examined and, of course, all fears are justified, but I believe that other reading would bring nothing more knowledge and nothing more than we now have with the knowledge of certain facts I'm contracting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42571	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42572	Thank you very much. Thank you, my dear colleague, I agree with what you said, but I am taking this opportunity to perhaps underline the fact that the political and institutional culture and tradition of Canada is quite different from that of the United States and that it is much more similar and closer to the European institutional and political tradition than that of the United States. It's often forgotten about us, and people think there's a left up there that's America, so it's worse than anything that's Canada, but actually institutionally, I think there's a lot more like it, and that's why this agreement was easier to define with Canada than it would be or what it is with the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42573	Thank you very much. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42574	My colleague Pusic, you said there was no opposition or protest against CETA, but it was according to TTIP, i.e. the transatlantic trade agreement fact, that it was in Germany against one and the other last year in 7 cities in Germany, as opponents of these agreements fight against it, believe that the standards and protection of both labour rights and environmental protection will be reduced. Therefore, they fight to preserve standards and, of course, fear the environment, fear the way they eat, which will reach their countries, and of course it was a fact and that it is true. However, in this debate, how visible it is that the effects, as we have seen in the previous kind of way when we have entered the EU, then there is only a fee, we see that we have not had good effects in agriculture since we entered the EU, because our agricultural capacity has been reduced, not only in dairy production, but the village remains empty, and without rich peasants, we do not have a country. The fact is that we must protect and protect well, observe all agreements and the public open another reading. It wouldn't be any problem if every MP could decide either for or against. And if there were protests, as I said, against this TTIP and against CETA, it was in Germany last year, and it was a lot of big protests in seven cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42575	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42576	Thank you very much. So I didn't say that there was no protest against CETA, but I said that a lot of protests and criticisms that were addressed to the CETA de facto account had been shed from demonstrations and opposition to the TTIP at the moment when it was seen that TTIP de facto was no longer on the agenda in the first row because of the American side, not because of the European side. And a lot of the remarks that were originally formulated on the account of TTIP then went to the CETA, even though these very topics that you mentioned by CETA take account of it and has as I said the standards reached in the Paris Agreement, for example as regards the environment. Otherwise, I don't think it's unfair to be cautious in such situations and such agreements and that civil initiatives are both rebellions and criticisms are a bad thing, just the other way around. I think it focuses on negotiators and helps to take care of all the things that need to be taken care of because although of the ten things are nine insignificant, one important is still the benefit of warning and taking care of it. As for the impact of EU accession on our agriculture, de facto, we have received a lot of money for our agriculture from the EU. Therefore, everything that is happening here is not the EU's fault, but obviously we must change our policies, improve or improve in order to take advantage of all these opportunities that have opened up to us, and in this respect, it is shown that the EU is not all the landlady present. It only opens up possibilities, but we have to realize them ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42577	Thank you. In an individual debate, the first one will now be spoken by distinguished MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42578	Thank you very much. We are all in the debate colleagues on behalf of the clubs have expressed their views, but the fact that it is very important for these agreements to be public and transparent to our citizens because people need to know mainly what the citizens are about, and so are we MPs who are going to vote on this agreement. What is most important countless times has been repeated and repeated, the effects and regulations in this agreement of these regulations experience has led us to say that so far in this House we have not been exactly the best public communication of some kind to our public. We see when we enter European integration into the EU that they have signed everything and everything in accession. So we have a number of directives that do not go exactly to the benefit of Croatian citizens, the development of the economy, the development of labour rights, the conservation of the environment, we have simply become those who are the market, and we see that our products mainly here mention agriculture and other branches, and agriculture is crucial that our villages are empty. Here's a colleague, Pusic, told me a few minutes ago that money from the EU was coming to Croatia that it was not good to schedule what it said about ourselves. We see in Germany last year all over Europe against TTIP transatlantic trade exchanges that there were protests and people rightly protested. This not only left or green but even religious communities have pointed to problems that occur in these agreements that need to protect the environment above all, labour rights of course and the domicile population, above all to preserve sustainable development in these areas, in bordered rural areas where residents emigrate from. And it just concentrates everything on having to concentrate on people staying in this case in the Republic of Croatia because only in the Dalmatian Zagora is 100 thousand people who have moved and had conditions and opportunities to deal with livestock. In the past 20 years, the same conditions are also the same in Slavonia because I have to say once again that before joining the EU, 64 thousand dairy producers, we now have 4600, that we have had more than 60% of the coverage of our market for our domestic dairy products, that today it is in a rapid decline and that this should end and that the triba means that these effects of these agreements should be exclusively directed towards Croatian interests. Canada will protect its interests here, whether our agriculture, our economy, our shipbuilding, so we think what our competitiveness is, so we had in our Croatia the construction of the largest building i.e. The largest project is highway A1, a gram of iron was not left in the highway, and in that time, we lost Croatian ironworks. What kind of agreements were they to import even iron for building in the building? I think 2230 pages of the triba open to the public, the triba give a second reading and the triba to preserve the interests of our citizens and farmers and the environment mainly of energy. We see the ratio of energy, so we see what we have received when we enter the EU with these quotas of renewable energy. We've got wind power stations where we're inciting the i.e. The subsidies go into foreign pockets, and our country, our wind, and we billions of kunas have to give incentives to foreigners. So let's be public, let's be transparent. For no reason in Germany, other EU countries organised protests against these transatlantic and TTIP and CETA. So not just lefts, not just some but even religious communities and green associations. Therefore, we MPs make a decision, we have the right to another reading, we have the right to debate, each with our own level of knowledge, we have the right to receive information and we have, because we are making a very important decision on this cooperation, which is an interest and which is the effects of Croatia in general and the environment and means both economic development and import and export, all these circumstances need to be well looked at and of course should be seen all together. And of course there are positive things here, investments and what needs to be encouraged, but really what we need to be serious, protects exclusively national interests, our branches for the survival of these people, so that it doesn't happen to us that GMOs go through this and tells us not to. Who says they won't? I don't really see it in this agreement. Who says our agriculture will grow, that we will export much more? Are we ready for these agreements and our competitiveness not only in agriculture but also in the economy, anything else? Therefore, I would ask once again to go to another reading and to open up to the public and associations and people who specialize in all these issues and to see us parliamentary representatives that we do not have to impose our position, because that is how it must be, so it went to the EU, so we had to arrest all the generals, locate and transfer. So we had to, we shouldn't have had an exclusive economic belt. Here is today the German Embassy is sending a public letter to us who have made the decision here, which we have made, i.e. Not us but this Assembly unanimously that arbitration is not recognised for contaminating i.e. The corruption and crime that has been through this process, against Croatia in the arbitration of Savudrija, and they order us to accept it. So much for some kind of relationship, so much for the abilities of Brussels' friends, Andrej Plenkovic, that Germany orders us to oppose this House's decision. Where are our friends now? Where is this Brussels policy? We'll see what happens to arbitration now, and we can't even admit it. But everywhere we fell, flew, and in the end we didn't really protect national interests both on the Adriatic coast, in agriculture, in the economy. And the reason for that is that we have two-thirds of Croatia empty, literally empty. Here I mentioned just now only in the Dalmatian Zagora in the Cetina region or in Vrgoračka region, there were 70,000 inhabitants in the Cetina region, now we have about 48 and it's in decline. We need to know these effects well and make the best decision and protect Croatian national interests, the interests of all of us and the interests of all individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42579	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic, who is missing, losing his right to debate. The next debate is the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42580	I would like to thank Mr. President, my colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we have a CETA agreement ahead of us. For those who are less directed to this, therefore abbreviations from the English word comprehensive economic trade agreement. So a comprehensive agreement between the EU and Canada that treats therefore economic issues and trade. Of course, we make an agreement on behalf of the EU that is a 550 million-domestic conglomerate with a country that has some 37 million. And the relationship is actually incomparable for the EU. On the other hand, Croatia will be part of the agreement. On the other hand, Canada, which is again incomparably both spatially and economically and by the population, is larger than Croatia. However, we are discussing this agreement today with the aim of explaining to the Croatian public why this agreement is in the interest of Croatian citizens and Croatian peoples to be much wider in the formulation. And also to raise awareness of all those concerned with this agreement in order to prepare as best possible for the implementation of this Agreement. So Croatia and Canada are constantly strengthening their trade exchange, and according to official data provided by and respected State Secretary Mrs. Bušić, this exchange last year amounted to some 49 million US dollars, hence 37 million exports from Croatia, so mainly from the pharmaceutical sector PLIVA Teva, food, Podravka, Kraša, Končar, Croatia Airlines, etc. And the imports from Canada were about 13.1 million. Which is why Croatia is in favour of this segment, which is not the case with many EU countries. Therefore, another argument that is very important and useful, so in the interest of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs is the fact that EU and Canadian trade is achieved at around 130, 100 billion euros, which gives our economy, for example, great chances. However, I will say here a few words from the position of my mandate here in the Parliament, so representatives of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So according to the relevant estimates, there are some 250 thousand Croatian emigrants living in Canada who have moved there through some four wave of emigration from the time of Austria, where from 1880 until today. However, what is the fact, therefore, given the specificity of the Canadian society most of these people have maintained strong ties both emotionally and economically and family with the Republic of Croatia, they are very interested in working here, investing and doing business with Croatian companies. It is also important to mention that the agreement provides support to those most concerned and those most aware of the benefits of the agreement. So the support in this agreement was also given by the Canadian Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, so the organisation of 50 companies related to Canada, and the market of these countries, which was founded 22 years ago, and which actually sees in this agreement, therefore the chances for improved trade, of course, for the mutual benefit of Croatian citizens, Croatian businesses and our emigrants in Canada. So, and now, let me just say a few words about what is already said and what is already mentioned in the opening statement by Mrs Bušić, so State Secretary, this agreement contains provisions on the market as the name itself says, and as regards therefore access to the market for goods, measures to protect trade, etc., which should remove barriers to trade, as well as assistance to sanitary, phyto-sanitary measures, facilitating the customs regime, temporary stay of natural persons for business purposes, mutual recognition of qualifications, financial services, company monopolies, etc. and mainly, therefore, are all the measures that will make it easier for our shareholders who are actually competitive, and who are seeking competitiveness in the world wide market because an agreement, as said here, I think that a fellow Milosevic said that, is abolishing some 97.7% of customs duties on European products and some 98.2% of customs on Canadian products. However, there have been a lot of complaints here today, and therefore concerns about this agreement, the type that the liberalisation of goods and services will endanger some economic operators in Croatia, including citizens, etc., but the truth is that competition can endanger some entities but only those who are not ready and able to play in the world league can all be encouraged for others to reach that level, to play therefore on the world market, and those who actually do not want and cannot do so will disappear and they would certainly disappear with the CETA agreement and without the CETA agreement. On the other hand, the same ones who are opposed to this agreement here in the Croatian Parliament negatively assess Croatia's membership in the EU, therefore, and cite only the negative things that are happening to Croatia, which are in fact most or none of them have anything to do with Croatia's membership in the EU, but are only talking about us, about our willingness to engage in the European League, which is the EU. I will give you a few examples, the same ones who negatively evaluate Croatia's EU membership, let them take a little walk outside the borders of Croatia in our southeast neighborhood, so here in the country where I come from, so let them see how they drive, which roads, take a look at the environment, so let them look at the administration, management, etc. etc., and then perhaps they will see Croatia's membership in the EU with different eyes. So let them look at how, let's say, these countries I come from, referred to leaving Croatia in the CEFTA agreement, so to an agreement that has a similar situation... who have actually been asking Croatia to come out of the agreement for three years because they cannot be competitive with Croatia, which is in the EU, which has raised its competitiveness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all arguments actually for all of us, that we're not afraid to go out on the world market because it just means the incentive to be better, because we can't stop and we can't stop, nor can we be an isolated island in that environment. After all, let's see why Croatian athletes are so successful and so competitive on the world market? Well, because they've been forced to play in the world league ever since, and then to participate in the Olympics, Croatian athletes have to place themselves in the league through rigorous qualifications. Here, we have been given the opportunity to play through EU membership both in the European and global leagues, and it is up to us to take advantage of these advantages. And finally to finish, therefore, again we, a country that has such a large diaspora, such a successful diaspora, a diaspora that has knowledge, which has huge investment potential, actually this agreement and similar agreements give us new chances to integrate that diaspora into a social, political and economic life of Croatia for mutual satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42581	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42582	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Ljubic, I am pleased that you president of the Croatian Committee outside Croatia have mentioned something because, you can imagine that today there is a debate about Croats outside Croatia. How much care would be here for those 250 thousand Croats in Canada? And now that the same Croats from Canada tell you that this agreement is something good that brings them good, now we suddenly don't believe them. Because this agreement, we're just part of a big family that's going to bring it together and sign it, and it's going to allow us to get new knowledge, new technologies, easier than we used to be. But when we talk about our emigrants, then we need to know, just remember that passport questionnaire that we all had to fill out, especially Croatian officials, so when someone asks you if you're a participant of the Homeland War, which is the general pride of every Croat, however it was the way it was. I'm, like, a minister, giving up the request to search for a Canadian passport just because of me, that foreign question. But what I want to say today is that many bilateral issues, concerning the elderly, Croats of older age, so from the Health Insurance and Tax Treatment Agreement, and everything gathered in the bilateral agreement after this, will be much easier to resolve, because when we are part of a common market that operates under certain rules, then simply and the residents living in those areas, you have to enable them to solve some problems bilaterally. And when you talk to Croats, ours in overseas countries, they only care about two, give us a health insurance problem and give us a pension problem. And we don't need you anymore. Let us spend our old days in our homeland. Well, when I'm talking about this agreement, we can't possibly have this out of our minds. I think this agreement will make it easier for us to solve these things both with Canada and with America.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42583	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42584	I therefore thank you for this replica which in fact only confirms the credentiality of this agreement for Croatia's interests. So I've spent a short time in Canada alone as a visiting doctor and I know that social values are also very compatible with our values here. So, attachment to cultural origin, fostering it. And that fact has made it possible for most Canadian Croats, regardless of the generation they've moved, to actually feel this attachment to our country. But what we're doing here and what we could hear from this phone booth today is actually always how something can't and can't refuse something, and then once it bothers us, the coal power plant, so the second time it bothers us, the thermal power plant on gas, and also from these parts people go abroad, our children, our youth, work in such thermal power plants and rent apartments near them because they're cheaper than elsewhere. So what we actually do here in Croatia and what bothers me and generally not only here but also our mentality here is this fact, the sight of innovation, the sight of something new. And in fact, what we must do here when it comes to our immigration, we must do so through our legislation and the Law on Citizenship, here is the Law on Foreigners, which may come in a few days, that in any way we are now liberalising the participation of our emigration in the socio-political and economic life of the country, as well as through the Electoral Law as well as by fellow Babić today in his replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42585	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ljubic, you were talking about those who have accepted this agreement means about the Croats in Canada. I'd just add to that that they had the conditions as anticipated by this agreement then 250 000 would not have gone there. But what you said to those who refused these and similar agreements I have to say that these days or these months it's associated me with a good part of these rejections and not agreeing to what was the beginning of the 19th century which was a crazy, crazy movement when machines broke down because it was thought to destroy jobs, when warehouses were breaking up, etc. Or half of the 19th century, a postage stamp was introduced, so it said it was legally impossible because it insulted those who received mail, who then paid their postage or when the first license for a car in London was given days but with an obligation to go in front of the car to announce that the car would pass. All these innovations clear things we can list the mass of such examples are, they don't know what innovation will bring, what this progress will bring, and there is always a clear thing when the electricity is invented, or started to benefit. There were many, not many, there were victims. It has its own negative sides, but we simply need to have the courage and courage to accept positive sides, and to neutralize the possible negative effects of that. And on that side, the criticism that is coming is actually I'd say in terms of our ignorance of what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42587	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42588	So I can only say that I agree with that and actually the fact that I just said so, so my stay in Canada as a visiting doctor, before that in Germany, etc. He helped me see new perspectives and that in my profession, so medically speaking, while I was actively in orthopaedic surgery... be better and that the institutions in which I have worked are also better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have no reason to fear competition. I repeat it in the first place should be an incentive for our economies to reach, therefore European and world standards in production, trade and this agreement actually opens up space. And that's the only thing that this agreement gives, and I don't see any negative ones at all, so I believe that Canada, which is today as far as I know, is at this scale of trade with Croatia that I just said earlier. At this point, I even think 10 EU members are below that level. I am convinced, therefore, that the application of this agreement will, thanks to the scope of trade and therefore, our emigrants will increase to a significant extent, and that can ultimately only benefit citizens and businesses in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42589	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the distinguished representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42590	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, Mrs Busic, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's really very short because there's no need anymore, there's a lot of things being said. Of course, the secretary of state explained a lot of things about the agreement itself and all the good that this agreement would bring or could bring. Of course, it has been crystallized that the agreement is the same as we are, either we accept it or we reject it. And on the other hand, it's one process that lasts. There, many colleagues and colleagues warned that it has not been since yesterday, that it has been going on for years. And what I would now conclude from this debate, so it's not a problem in the agreement, the deal is probably good. The problem is, are we prepared to accept such an agreement and what is it that we have done or what else should we do to benefit our citizens, our entrepreneurs? And here, he would be attached to his colleague Ljubic, if not only athletes, so the workers leaving the Republic of Croatia, in a foreign country are regularly extremely good, quality workers. That's what everybody's saying. Why are there good quality workers, and here they can't be, because entrepreneurs, because they have a better chance, have a better chance of working. And I think if we succeed through this agreement, if it works out, then it'll be positive for the Republic of Croatia, most of all, there's been an observation, whether such effects will be positive and whether they will cause negative consequences on a small economy, on family farms, because we have to admit that we are lagging behind, we haven't prepared ourselves well, we don't already have a law, we don't have but we haven't carried out the membership for 30 years. Here today he also mentioned fellow Stazić in some negative context of irrigation, all in which I am late for developed countries to be more competitive. And finally, to conclude maybe one thing that's mentioned here, I'm worried about that too, and that's working rights for us people are better for those workers' rights. Let's say the case of Agrokora, it's impossible in Canada, I actually showed the case of how much I followed a similar company dealing with trade, the big trade chain in Canada went bankrupt, 150 thousand workers were out of jobs, but the Canadian government didn't even blink. The Canadian government doesn't care, they don't care about it. With us, it's actually incomprehensible. Now whether it's positive or negative, we can judge it, but in any case, we have no choice. The future is such that we must free the entrepreneurs. The entry and exit of the labour market must be more flexible, investment, here mentioned fellow Klisovic investments, so we are responsible whether investors from Canada tomorrow, whether Croats living in Canada will invest here, there are many negative experiences. People came, they invested their savings in the Republic of Croatia, and they didn't have the best time. So we must, in addition to this agreement, pass laws that will encourage the development of entrepreneurship and ultimately attract investment. I hope I'm not too long... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42591	Thank you very much. One replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very short. Comrade Sagar, you have seen great concern for this agreement for Croatian interests, for the second reading. See how many of us are in the assembly before the State Secretary's final address, which will likely answer any questions asked by colleagues. It best speaks of us, how we function, how we work, and how serious we are, how seriously we want to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42593	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42594	To be honest, one short answer, I followed your debate yesterday, I simply missed you here in the Parliament, about a loan to the road industry yesterday. An extremely important topic, the word is, we know how much HAC and Croatian roads are in charge, the same thing is happening. So those things that are important, there's really no interest in MPs, and then maybe in that sense, a fellow Rainer, when he said when some MPs want to end up on the cover, then they come in the morning, they say something that's so convenient and then they're gone. But it is another story and the work of this Parliament, surely in the future, here is the Vice-President of the Parliament, all those who can influence it, perhaps the work of the Croatian Parliament should be changed, that most of these things are discussed on committees, and that some suggestions for change or addition are then adopted here. Here's the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42595	Thank you very much for this proposal. It's something I've been representing for years and I'd be very happy to make it happen, I hope we all will. Here, and now the closing statement will be given to us by the esteemed State Secretary, Mrs. Zdravna Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And thank you, honourable MPs, for being those who have listened to and thanked you and those who have gone out, but I must see now, because many of them have asked questions, and there are none present. I know they'll say they're tracking somewhere else or following their services, but anyway, I'll try to thank you in a few words and address the questions asked. I would also, let me also thank our respected Canadian representative who really listened very carefully to all these discussions. What could I say in the end now? Five years of this negotiation agreement. Five full years. For 2 years, this agreement has been made public on the European Commission's pages. Since November 2016, this agreement has been on both the European Commission and Croatian pages. So we don't have to print all these pages, he's in Croatian and available to anyone who wants to see and read it. Of course we can always give more time, we can leave that behind four readings. There were colleagues, some respected MPs, who said they would be in the 4th quarter and they could be in the 4th quarter. Of course, at 2, 3, 4th quarter, I say again, it doesn't take two readings as we've already exposed, another reading. What's actually going on in 2 readings, the Proposer is considering all of your proposals, and here, in fact, he's changing the text, and here we respected MPs, we can't change the text, it's an international contract. So let's let some flexibility be allowed for us somehow in this legislative activity. So I'd still mention it here. This proposal has passed, and I really must stress it, all the parent committees. A public debate was organised and the Canadian chief negotiator came and there were questions as to why the minister, the minister, met with him and was at the public hearing. The public debate was held in the Committee on European Affairs and was led by Mr. Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. The GSV held a very large public debate where the social partners really supported it. I want to emphasize this HGK, I don't know who mentioned the same thing he spent in fact there were more public stands, exporters have also made a positive statement. Now, as I've written down a lot, I will now especially for you who have spoken about complaints have been about the dispute resolution system. There was a lot of emphasis here in this debate, a lot of words have been said about it, and all that respected gentlemen MPs have been saying is about the existing system, the one I talked about that from the Republic of Croatia signed with Canada in 1997, and I want to make it clear again that this refers to the existing system that we have in agreement with Canada in November '97. The new dispute resolution system, which was incorporated into the CETA agreement, removes almost all these objections and is better balanced in favour of the state in favour of Croatia. About what I'm saying, I can say something again but I don't think it's really necessary. Finally, I would say as I have said earlier, Croatia has profited by entering the European market in the EU, so it has received a market of 500 million people. Our exports from the entry, I think we'll all agree that it averaged between 3% and 4% a year. It is regulated and we must face it as many of you have pointed out very well, we must face one open market. Today's world is a competitive world, competition is and I deeply believe that this is a great opportunity for Croatia, an opportunity for enlargement, an expansion perhaps in a small proportion, but I would say about Croatia and I would say that it is also in one big one because Croatia still has one chance and it is given an opportunity. I thank all of you who have positively expressed yourself in this direction and I ask that this be brought forward in one hasty procedure, and believe all those with all due respect and respect for all those who have spoken in favour of another reading, I hope you will still agree that it is not necessary and therefore I ask you to bring this matter quickly and to conclude this agreement. And as for whether we're going to be first or last, we're certainly not the first because some countries have already ratified, maybe while we've had this debate, maybe another state has ratified because it's actually on the agenda of their parliaments. Here I would like to conclude Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention, thank you for your participation, for your discussions, for all the good suggestions, and for your criticism. I always thank you for the criticism because from the criticism, man learns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42597	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42598	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. Here's just one question at the end, maybe it'll be too general, maybe it'll be layman's, but that's what I have to ask you. In fact, I and the Minister of Economy, Ms. Marti Dalic, made one remark because I noticed that the Ministry of Economy Deputy and all assistants are no one there technical professions. When we're talking about the so-called. economic diplomacy, what does the Foreign Ministry do about it, and do we actually have economic diplomacy? People, of whom the staff are composed, I think it is also related to this agreement so that indeed the Croatian economy can find a place on the market in Canada and that such efforts will be needed, and that is why people are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42599	Here's a reply to the replica by State Secretary Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42600	So I would answer or actually this when I prayed not to go to another reading also I want to answer, so MOST independent lists was directed to the President of the Parliament or to the Presidency of the Parliament to go to another reading so I would like to see the government's conclusion is that he can't go to another reading I apologize because it's been enough. [[/Intruder Reiner: And the response to diplomacy?]] About economic diplomacy, here's a colleague running this sector and he's very familiar with it and of course we're expanding and we're doing a lot to finally strengthen that diplomacy. [[Intruder Reiner: There were questions about economic diplomacy.]] And believe that now, and in the agreement we also made with the HGK, where both our embassies and other representations of the Republic of Croatia will actually have them. So we're working together better and harder, and we're finally doing this, because look, unfortunately, many years have passed and there hasn't been enough activity in that field, and we're really hoping that we're going to go that way right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42601	Thank you all very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll have one break as usual until 3:00 when we get back to work. Thank you very much. MEETING IN 14.43 HOURS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42602	The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 122. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt a conclusion which reads as follows: 1. On the final proposal of the Law confirming the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 122, proposed by the Croatian Act of 13 April 2017 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will hold a debate in the first reading. 2. All comments and proposals submitted in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be submitted to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. 3. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit, in addition to the final draft law, statements of the impact of the regulations to the Croatian Parliament before the final draft law is submitted. During the debate, the presidents of the applicant did not accept the proposed conclusion. I am voting in favour of the proposal to conclude the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which the applicant does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find the proposed conclusion did not get the majority of votes needed, so 78 votes were against, 26 abstentions and 16 were in favour. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 103 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against the Law on the Confirmation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to new points of the agenda that we will discuss unitedly. So I'm going to read you what the points are now because the problem is the same, it's international agreements and there's no reason to discuss them individually, this is pragmatic and logical too. The first is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 137; - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Interim Agreement with the aim of concluding an economic partnership agreement between the European Community and its Member States, from one end to Central Africa, on the other, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 134; - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Transitional Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d’ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 133; - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Transitional Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 135; - Final proposal of the Act confirming the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 136; Proposer of acts of all these draft laws is Government pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy and you received reports at the session. I would now ask that, on behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation that the State Secretary is a respected Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42604	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's how you've already read the titles of all these proposals, the bill of confirmation I'm not going to repeat it, so let's cut it short. So respected MPs, respected MPs, let me briefly present these final drafts of the law that the President of the Parliament has already read. So these bill proposals confirm the economic partnership agreements that the EU and its Member States have agreed with the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group before joining the EU. That is why, in the title, the very title of the law is said by the European Community and it is not the EU, so that it is not accidentally thought to be a mistake or a typeographic error. So these are transitionals, these are the transitional economic partnership agreement between the Ivory Coast on the one hand and the European Community and its Member States on the other hand, drawn up in Abidjan on 26 November 2008 and in Brussels on 22 January 2009. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Interim Agreement with a view to the conclusion of an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central African Party, of the other part, which was actually concluded on 15 January 2009 and which has been provisionally applicable between the EU and the Republic of Cameroon since 4 August 2014. The Transitional Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 28 July 2016 and provisionally applicable between the EU and the Republic of Ghana on 15 December 2016. The EU Economic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the USC States, is a abbreviations for the South African Development Community, on the other hand, drawn up in Casane on 10 June 2016, the Agreement shall apply provisionally from 10 October 2016 between those 6 countries of the South African Development Community. And we know that, we know that it is the Republic of Botswana, the Kingdom of Lesotto, the Republic of Namibia, the Republic of the Jar, the Kingdom of Swaziland and the EU, including the Republic of Croatia, but only with regard to elements which are within the competence of the EU. The Economic Partnership Agreement between CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, consisting of 15 October 2008, is also the first regional and most extensive economic partnership agreement concluded between the European Community and CARIFORUM. Or I can list all these countries for you but we know which countries are in this partnership, I don't think we need to list all these countries because we know which countries they are. In short, trade agreements aimed at development are in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation and the Sustainable Development Goals, the Millennium Development Goals and the Partnership Agreement between members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States on the one hand, and the European Community and its states, on the other hand, signed in Catan, 23 June 2000. These agreements support new trade dynamics among parties, help gradually asymmetric trade liberalisation and gradually integrate the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific into the world economy. All in line with their political choices and development priorities and strengthen existing relations between parties on the basis of solidarity and mutual interests. The Republic of Croatia is not a party to these agreements except for the Economic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC States, of the other part. Taking into account that the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to access to agreements concluded by Member States and the EU or signed with one or more third countries or with an international organisation, this is clearly necessary for all of us to carry out their validation procedure. The certification process should also be carried out in the case of an Economic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the USC States, of the other part, whose party is also the Republic of Croatia, in order for the EU to end the conclusion process and to meet the conditions for its entry into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42605	I thank the secretary of state. There were no replicas, we have two clubs reported, one individual debate. On behalf of SDP representative Joško Klisovic's club, he is not here, so he loses his right to speak, the second is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored counterpart Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have heard the presentation of the Secretary of State, Mrs Busic, on these proposals for the law on the validation of the agreement, on the EU's partnership with the countries of Africa and the Caribbean and the Pacific, there is no need to take a lot of advantage of the arguments, it is about agreements that are important, when it comes to the EU, they have more dimensions, they have a political dimension, they have an economic dimension and a dimension of development policy. It is about agreements which should, whose implementation should be possible, mean not only trade with groups of countries covered by these agreements but also allow these countries to develop better. The EU also has one instrument to suspend co-operation if it is established that the values represented by the EU and thus by the Republic of Croatia are not respected. With that, I plead to adopt these bill proposals under the Cotonou Agreement. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42607	I thank my colleague Kovac. So we don't have any more interested in the debate. I don't think there's any need for further clarifications by the secretary of state, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on these five points when the conditions are met. The final proposal of the Act confirming the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 137. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 120 votes to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, allow me to present the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on a comprehensive long-term partnership and to stress that the current relations between the Republic of Croatia and Afghanistan are intensive and partnered. In Afghanistan, Croatia has positioned itself as a European state and a credible member of the North Atlantic Treaty organisations, i.e. NATO, which has successfully participated in the operation of the international security support force for many years, and is taking part in the EuroPOL mission after the shutdown. Croatian civil action includes significant humanitarian and development aid and since 2007 Croatia has implemented more than 42 projects in Afghanistan based on established needs in the field in close cooperation with the competent authorities and with the local community. All projects are in line with the so-called. The overall approach that Croatia and all other participating countries use in their participation in peacekeeping operations, which means that military and police engagement in these operations should be monitored and always monitored by humanitarian and development assistance, as well as other elements of civilian components. At the end of April 2017, the Croatian Government adopted a decision to provide assistance in the conflicts of the affected Islamic Republic of Afghanistan under the Trust Fund for the Public Order for Afghanistan for the period from 2017 to 2019 totalling $1.5 million, since the establishment of a legal order capable of preserving security throughout the territory of Afghanistan is a top priority for establishing sustainable development cooperation. I'm saying, it only works for development cooperation because this is actually necessary to keep it all going. Afghanistan is interested in as many humanitarian and development projects as possible by the Republic of Croatia, i.e. by the International Community asking that their priorities and their actions be fully respected. Following this agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on a comprehensive long-term partnership, Croatian President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and the President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Mohammad Ashrafi Ghana signed in Warsaw on 9 July 2016 on the sidelines of the meeting at the top of the heads of state and government of NATO member states. The Afghan side has also ratified and informed the Croatian side of the note since 31 January 2017. The Agreement establishes the necessary international and legal framework for cooperation in areas of mutual interest, in particular political cooperation, cooperation in the field of security, development cooperation, economy and investment, culture and education, and establishes a mechanism for monitoring their implementation by establishing a joint commission for bilateral cooperation. It also confirms friendly relations between the two countries based on mutual respect for state sovereignty and mutual common interests in long-term stability and progress in Afghanistan. It will also contribute to strengthening the relations between the Republic of Croatia and Afghanistan, as well as to the sustainable economic and social development of Afghanistan. The implementation of this law does not require additional insurance of additional financial resources in the state budget except for what I have mentioned already in the development aid. Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, well-respected MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42635	I thank the secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first came to the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, but no one is there and they lose their right to speak. The same goes for SDP's Club of Representatives, a colleague of Klisovic is not here. The fourth and the club of independent MPs and HSUs, there is no one, so they lose their word. And fifth colleague Miro Kovac on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. He's here? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42636	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we heard the explanation of Ms. Secretary of State, Zdravka Busic. So this agreement was signed last year on the sidelines of the NATO Alliance summit in Warsaw and covers 4 areas of cooperation, security, development, development assistance, the economy and investment and education culture. It is also envisaged to form a commission for bilateral co-operation, which would clearly be implemented, to monitor projects in these four areas. Croatia thus shows that it is not only a military presence within NATO alliances in Afghanistan, but that as a post-conflict society that is today a highly developed state of the Western world, a NATO member of the alliance and the EU, it wants to make its experience available to the very fragile society of Afghanistan, so we at the HDZ Representatives' Club suggest that we support this comprehensive agreement between Croatia and Afghanistan. Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42637	Thank you. Final? There's no need. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on a comprehensive long-term partnership, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 129. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on a comprehensive long-term partnership, please vote. I find that most of the votes 117 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the law adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42640	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. After months of work and broad public debate, we have before us a proposal for a new Animal Protection Act. The proposal for a law on the protection of animals with the provisions of the EU Directive, in the area of animal welfare, also contains provisions of national interest, which contribute to the day-to-day improved welfare of animals, and individual areas, the use of animals, or their possession. When adopting the draft law, it was taken into account the requirements of the European Commission, which, through the pilot, pointed out the need to supplement the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of full adoption in the Croatian legislation of Directive 2010/63 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The proposal for this law therefore adopts amendments relating to the purpose of conducting experiments, human death in experiments, the time limit within which the competent authority shall notify the user by electronic means of the deficiencies to be eliminated and the conditions for the modification and renewal of the approval of the project. The proposed law provides for further protection of animal welfare during their use, either as... animals, experimental animals, animals in zoos or pets in different activities from breeding, holding, working, selling, fun to socialize with animals as key pets, and monitoring the implementation of the same and breaking provisions that are effective and act both deterrent and educationally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In relation to applicable legislation, and in order to ensure the welfare of animals during their use, further prohibitions of non-compliant treatment against animals, protection of pets during their breeding, holding and transport have been prescribed, and protection of animals during their sale. Treatment of abandoned and lost animals, inspection, misdemeanor provisions, which encourages responsible possession of animals. From those prohibitions, we highlight the ban on keeping dolphins and bears captive, ban the use of hooves to extract troops from the forest and ban the killing of dogs and cats for the purpose of producing food and other products. Furthermore, for the purposes of reducing the number of abandoned animals, provisions on control, reproduction of pets are prescribed, which provides pet possessions, and in the event that a large number of abandoned dogs are identified in a particular area, ways of financing the control of the reproduction of abandoned dogs in that area, the following is prescribed by the Minister of Agriculture. For the purpose of promoting public awareness of animal protection, the bodies of units of local or regional self-government as well as competent authorities shall commit themselves to developing public awareness and, in particular, on animal protection. The proposal for a law further sets out the animal protection measures that are grown and used for the purpose of production, which provides Croatian producers with equal participation in the EU common market, and enables further development of animal welfare conditions for breeding using rural development funds, i.e. the programme of measures aimed at improving animal welfare. The obligation to record key pets intended for sale with less than 3 female breeding females of the same species has also been prescribed, which has not so far been the case with a view to enabling all stakeholders to be placed on the market and for the purpose of monitoring the traffic of animals and animal welfare. The draft law prescribes a unit of regional self-government to establish coordination working groups whose role is to facilitate the exchange of experiences and good practices of stakeholders and to propose a solution to the head of the regional self-government with a view to reducing the number of abandoned animals as well as developing responsible life ownership. The bodies of the units of the regional self-government shall adopt a programme of control of the populations of abandoned dogs, taking into account the proposals of the coordination working group and taking into account the recommendations of the World Animal Health Organisation and providing it to the Ministry of Agriculture for assessment. The measures taken to increase awareness of responsible animal possession will also allow the budget of the units of local self-government for funds intended to provide abandoned and lost animals and will improve animal welfare and, consequently, the welfare of animal health. In the area of each unit of regional and regional self-government, one animal shelter for at least 50 places must be established, and units of local self-government shall finance and establish the work of shelters. The animals in the shelter stay until home. The provision on the obligation to set up animal shelters and the way in which the construction and operation of shelters is financed have been accepted without notice by the Association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Community of County and the Association of Cities. For the purpose of reducing the population of abandoned dogs, the units of local self-government shall ensure that by 30 June 2018 they are monitored for the implementation of mandatory micro-chip of dogs laid down by the veterinary regulation of dogs whose dogs are not listed in the pet register. In the register of pets, it is possible to enter data for the purpose of establishing and working a single information centre for abandoned and lost animals, which will allow the public to see all abandoned animals in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of fostering them. It is also included in the register of pets, and for the purpose of registering the owner of pets, it is reduced by three breeding females for the purpose of selling animals to establish the records of the same animals. In pet stores as well as in wholesale shops only animals from registered breeding with three and more female pets for sale or from owners of less than three female pets intended for sale which must be recorded in the pet register. According to this proposal, the inspection supervision of the law is carried out by the veterinary or agricultural inspector of the Ministry of Agriculture and the municipal directors in accordance with the general acts of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. The role of communal directors is strengthened in a way that can determine whether dogs are marked with a microchip and for the purpose of reducing the populations of abandoned dogs. In order to implement the law, the budgets of local self-government units should provide funds to provide assistance for injured animals and the work of animal shelters for food, vaccination or treatment at an annual level at a shelter of 549 thousand kuna, a total of €11.5 million for 21 shelters, additional to the construction of three shelters that have not been established in Brodo-Posavia, Dubrovnik and Ličko-Senj County in 2018 should be provided with a total of 13.8 million kuna. The funds for the creation of a single information centre that I mentioned, and the records of the owner with one or two breeding females as part of the pet register of a total amount of 100 thousand kuna, will be provided from the funding of the state budget within the financial plan of the Ministry of Agriculture to the activities of A5681 Animal Health Protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42641	I thank the Secretary of State. We have five replicas. He is the first of his distinguished colleagues, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42642	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Majdak. In your presentation, and regarding this law I know that the plan of normative activities, you said in fact the duties and obligations of the units of local self-government and I suppose the regional self-government related to the county, and it is related to animal shelters and as far as I've seen in this report 13 counties have shelters for these animals, the question is whether they also have permits for these shelters. So 10 counties have no animal shelter and then you said it would cost about 11 million kuna. I understand when the law was passed that you had a good intention and you said that it was a months-long debate about 5 months ago that seemed to me that it was. I hope I didn't see that talking to the Association of Municipalities and Cities, because it's basically not good to pass laws when you're burdening someone else with it. So from the state level when we pass the law, we burden units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, and they didn't foresee these funds in their budget. By passing the law, there are certain things that they are obliged to do if the inspection can be punished. That's one thing, it's good to keep an eye on that and if there are funds at the ministry's position to at least help local administration and self-government units in that part. In any case, I welcome both the education and awareness of the public, as well as the protection and prevention of animals. Let's say I saw what I saw in these criminal provisions, let's say that in closed animals there are fines from 30 to 60 thousand kuna, given when I go home to Split, then let's say when you stop at the "Macola" restaurant you have two bears and six boars, you know, and that's about 180 thousand kuna, it's not that little that should actually be punished by Mr. Macol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42643	Thank you. Answer or you'll end up? Okay. The second is Honorable colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42644	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. As far as the Animal Protection Act is concerned, unfortunately in Croatia, the Stock Fund doesn't fit in that part, I'm talking about pets not talking about others but it's literally destroyed, it's never been lower, you're witnesses, so if you mention the stock fund is literally wiped off the map of Croatia. So please, can you tell us how much we've been taking care of the protection of the livestock stock, so in agriculture, that means here, for example? in dairy or all domestic animals? What does it mean, what number was 10 years ago and what is it today? I am also interested in how much protection it is for farmers who are engaged in livestock farming and whether the Ministry of Agriculture affects the development of agriculture i.e. a stock fund or destroys a fund with current legal regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42645	Okay. The third replica is a esteemed colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42646	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So any legal solution that improves the animal protection system should be welcomed, so I welcome this legal solution and you will certainly have support. I believe that there is a lot of progress, but here I will relate to my colleague Babic, when we talk about local self-government units and criminal provisions, we have two problems. First of all, we're gonna do a little work with the fines. First of all, it's about education. And I'm very good at what you mentioned will be introduced to the register, so there will be a register showing how many pets we actually have and which are not marked, so that's not chipped, in this case of dogs. I don't know how it's gonna be with other animals, especially some exotic animals. But I think it's actually the biggest problem with dogs and cats. We have cases that when people come here for a banal reason when they need to vaccinate the dog then they let it go, then it's not theirs, then they bring it back again. So here it is believed that units of local self-government will take care of it. It seems to me again that it's going to fall on the back of the communal director and he's already got a lot of work to do anyway, so I don't know how successful it's actually going to be. Here, what we will certainly discuss, we will suggest that Article 63, paragraph 6, which reads: “The units of local self-government can prescribe permanent sterilization as a mandatory way to control reproduction. ” Because many people actually don't know or don't have the means so they don't want to do it, if units of local self-government can do it, then we're going to get rid of these problems of leaving cats and dogs, it requires funds. I think there's a castration of 300 kunas somewhere, it requires funds, but it still has ultimately for the whole community to benefit if it's a smart thing to do. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42647	Thank you. The 4th replica is the esteemed colleague Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42648	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Majdak. There is a law before us that certainly got the sympathy of all animal friends because it essentially solves a few key issues and, most importantly, it would indicate as the novelty of stopping killing animals in shelters and encouraging fostering housing. This new law also requires a minimum one shelter in the county while we in Osijek-Baranja County have two and we are particularly proud of the asylum in Osijek and the work of the Association of Victory which is a school example of how this problem should be addressed. They like a no-kill shelter only in the first six months of this year have housed over 200 animals. Householding, chipping and castration are ways of preventing the cause of the problem and so far somehow more concerned about solving the consequences. Of course this law can be even better, and I believe it will, even though this is a great start. I would like you to consider the fostering of animals after an attempt or after several attempts are made to open one option, which gives the European directive that these animals are also home. And I would agree with my colleague, Sagar, as regards the introduction of opportunities to local communities in certain cases, to give in some ways an order for permanent sterilisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42649	Thank you. And he's the last of the distinguished colleagues of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42650	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, actually, I also think the law is good, that it's made great progress compared to the last law. Well, here's the thing, my colleague beat me to it, and I also wanted to ask if the law provided for the possibility of fostering animals after trying especially the dog and cats because I think the law says that there's going to be immediate death, euthanasia, so some European practices are going in that direction because people have the sympathy of such an animal because they're being experimented. So if that could change, one amendment, here's our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42651	Thank you. The secretary of state will comment on how much he told me after taking the opportunity on behalf of the promoter of five minutes and the first debate that goes by clubs is, or does he want any of the board? Excuse my colleague Bunjac, he wants a colleague, Križanić, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42652	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 17th session held on 21 June 2017, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Animals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 18 May 2017. The Agriculture Committee shall be in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held a debate on the proposed law as a home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the bill contains preventive supervisory and control provisions which will result in responsible use and protection and welfare of animals. The protection of animals during use, modes, treatment of animals, conditions necessary for the protection of animals in holding, breeding, performing operations on animals, killing, transport, use of animals for scientific purposes, keeping in zoos, circuses and other performances when selling pets, and handling abandoned and lost animals, inspection and infringement provisions. The debate drew attention to the need to adapt Article 5(3) to the need to distinguish the terms of renters and Samaritans. The members of the board also warned of the financial burden that the application of this law will cause the units of local administration and pointed out that part of the financing of the animal shelter is linked to the number of inhabitants of the units of local self-government. A question has also been raised regarding the ability of municipal directors to collect abandoned and lost animals and the need to align it with the Law on the Communist Economy. It has been warned of the complicated procedures prescribed by the provisions of the bill and the need to create conditions that would be controlled and sanctioned by irresponsible animal owners. In the light of the provision of Article 63(4) of the Law, it is pointed out that, in order to manage the costs of ensuring fair competition, it is not well proposed to limit the conclusion of contracts for the collection and disposal of abandoned or lost animals only with shelters located in the area of units of regional self-government in which the unit of local self-government is located. And with six votes, the committee supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42653	I thank my colleague Križanić. And now we're moving on to the debate, the first one's "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42654	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have a law on animal protection, a very valuable law, every step in this direction is positive, I believe that all MPs will support this law, and the key question that is being asked is, of course, why this law is necessary, of course, because of the attitude of people to animals. So it's actually about protecting animals from humans, first of all. And it should be said that unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, the attitude towards animals is very bad, but I would not want this whole debate to end with the need to protect cats and dogs, but rather to actually look at this problem as a whole. It is true that the problem of abandoned dogs is very pronounced and especially in my county, Međimurje County, I believe that even those who do not follow this problem too much, that they could see last year the unloved scenes, especially from Roma settlements in Međimurje, which are 12, where at this moment there are about 2 thousand abandoned dogs that are in extremely inhumane conditions living, and tortured and wound up without treatment, without vaccines, and even without food, and it is estimated that there are about 5 thousand of these dogs in the whole county and only one asylum, to our pride, NOKILL asylum, means no killing, but with the greatest efforts of superhuman efforts, people who work there manage to take care of the most 600 dogs, which means that 85% of the abandoned dogs cannot be adequately taken care of. And so the question arises which causes so many abandoned animals? Well certainly one of the reasons you should look for right now in this time that is ahead of us, which is the time of your vacation, the time to go outside the place of residence, when you will see in the streets a mass of dogs walking headlessly, so without any supervision, and these are the animals that the owners left to go on vacation. Also, one of the similar reasons is that when a person owns three or less dogs, or other animals, he is not considered a breeder. So he's not considered a breeder, which allows him to trade animals indefinitely. And it's black. So, we can open a New Yorker or some other advertiser now, sign in pets, and you'll get literally 5,000 ads to sell all-powerful animals, but without any order, so there's no tax collection, billing, anything, and then when these cubs, eventually, don't sell, when they grow up, and then they don't sell the same kind of cubs throw themselves on the street or worse, they kill. It should be considered that everyone selling animals should be a taxpayer and be considered a breeder. The other thing, therefore, is the sterilization of dogs, castration is said to be prescribed but all the burden is transferred to local administration, which means that local administration should find these funds, here in Međimurje County, so for this one single asylum, which is insufficient to receive 600 dogs, 400 thousand kuna stands out. So 400,000 which is a very high burden on the local budget if it were to go into the care of all dogs, probably that budget would have to be about 3.4 million kuna, which is just too easy for the local administration. For this reason, the obligation to sterilise must be imposed on the cost of the owner should be included in the law. It means the cost of the owner. That the owner is obliged to carry out sterilisation unless the dog has either a work permit or a breeding licence. So, when an animal doesn't have a work permit or a breeding license, it has to be carried out, so sterilization. In that sense, law enforcement is very important, for example. Since 2004, the law that animals must be chipsed, and more than 30% of animals, is therefore not chipped. From 2014 to 2017, the law did not live. The law is often a dead letter on paper and on this side it is good to provide for powers for local and municipal directors that they have powers, so to check whether the animal is chipped or not. So, to put it briefly. It is necessary to implement the law, to carry out sterilisation, it is necessary to give power to the communal directors but it is also necessary for the financial burden of care not only to be transferred to the local administration, but rather to be transferred to the owners of dogs and then that the local administration can possibly co-finance this implementation. We should also, therefore, put under surveillance the sale of animals on black as we therefore witness mass in the Republic of Croatia. In this law it is very good and should be welcomed, it will be a historic day when Croatia votes this law after the measure that it is forbidden to kill for fur, to finally prohibit and kill in those asylums because these asylums have a very useful function, they really care for animals and provide them with a human habitat. And most important of all, sterilization, treatment of animals and daily advertising are done, and in this household they are very successful and very successful. However, when we conclude this problem of pets, we still have a problem, which is the problem of farms, that is, the problem of slaughterhouses that are in the same terrible state, even worse, treated animals than pets, where legislation should also be extended to keep these animals, to treat these animals as humanely as possible. We say in this law we are meant not to keep dogs on the chain, but cows can be held on the chain and on a very short chain in the stables. Many of these cows, many chickens, I don't know turkeys and all the other feathers and cattle used to feed are kept in conditions that they are constantly in the dark or half dark, that they are never carried out in sunlight, that they are kept in a cage, that these animals are in constant fear, that this constant fear simply pollutes their flesh with adrenaline and does not have the same quality of meat as normally fed animals. And that's what our citizens eat. Well, it may be funny to you, some of you, as far as I can tell, but you're eating it at the end and it's coming back to you. I think animal protection should definitely be prescribed on that side, so that's what they grow for food. And I also don't understand why it's allowed to or not be controlled to the extent that animals are given steroids, that animals are given antibiotics, which are hormones, that animals have abnormal growth, so you have animals that should have two pounds, so it's 10 kilos. Well, then, yes, so that this animal doesn't die of all these powerful hormones and unnatural growth, then it's given antibiotics on a daily basis. And these antibiotics come into us, also weak organisms, also create that human immunity is getting weaker. So, you know immunity is getting weaker, so there's more and more disease-like people like gluten allergy, other asthma allergies, I don't know Crohn's disease, etc. So I don't understand why this whole problem wouldn't spread a little bit to raise awareness here in the Parliament that these animals, therefore, deserve protection, to deserve care. I also don't understand why the government regulation allows animals to be fed by GMOs. So, we are a state that is all counties in Croatia, all 20 counties one city has declared GMOs free zone, but for animals the food GMOs are allowed. And now we have cases that 90% of the food animals eat GMOs, that these GMOs are turning into humans again, that these animals because of this GMO food, let's say I don't know the cows are, cows have weaker milkiness or become massively infertile. So animals are becoming massively infertile, so now they have to wonder why this infertility is increasing more and more in humans. We see that this is a big problem in Croatia, that 20% of couples are actually having big problems today to have offspring. This is allowed, therefore, by the Government's regulation after 2013. We're, like, declaring ourselves a country without GMOs, but all the animals, there's almost all the animals eating food, so when someone like the one in Vindi Varazdin accidentally doesn't eat GMOs, then there's no GMO. Is the first thing in our interest to eat such meat, and the second thing why we give it to animals. So if we're human to ourselves and why we're not human to these animals. Is it all just for profit, is it all just for profit. Here today we have adopted this CETA which also allows mass imports of GMOs to Croatia, and on the other hand we now swear to some animal protection, we deceive our conscience, we say that we are very good people. Here's my colleagues laughing. What does he care? Life goes on. Is that right? I'd like this problem to come to your senses as much as possible, so come to your senses. It is clear to me that you will all vote yes, but I would like, therefore, to see the problem as a whole, to make as many quality amendments as possible. We will personally hand over at least ten in the name of the Living Wall and hope that by adopting a wide-based law, we will make sure not only that the animals are protected but that the Republic of Croatia shed light on its face, that we have a more human society in the future, that we no longer have such unkind scenes as we have seen in recent years and in the media, so we support the Animal Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42655	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have four replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42656	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Comrade Bunjac, you have raised many questions, somehow I liked your beginning of this debate, in fact, the purpose of this law is to protect animals from humans. What we have to admit is that there's a great resemblance between humans and animals, when we look at it anatomically. After all, neither science nor medicine would have progressed if animal testing had not been done, which allows for this very similarity. What we are now, whether religious or not, what distinguishes us from animals is surely our superiority, supremacy, and we are actually deciding on the fates of animals, so it's important to pass this law. And when we talk about animal protection, we think of unconscious owners. You mentioned Roma settlements here. Well, I'm not sure it's Roma's fault there's so many cats and dogs. And I believe that there are unconscious people who just come, so when there's a lot of them, it still won't hurt to be another 10. But what we still have to understand and I was saying in the replica before and the secretary of state, it's very important education, we're not going to achieve much repression, education, because there are people who love animals very much, who have animals, and they don't really know how to deal with them. It takes time for an animal, and it takes effort, and it needs knowledge. And knowledge in general, there's a lot of violence against animals because of ignorance. Here's an example, we were in a society, we were sitting on a terrace, and a snake appeared. Everyone was scared, I wanted to, I was the host, I wanted to kill that snake. Then he happened to be the man who the vet said, "So don't Tomislav," he said which snake it was, and all he caught was nice hands, carried it away, I would out of ignorance do it. So it's not just for snakes, it's for many animals, people of ignorance and fear do it. So education is needed, not just the Ministry of Agriculture, other segments are needed. As far as local self-government is concerned, to transfer this burden to the communal offices, I am not sure it will only work that way, and my colleague Babic was saying, there is also the need for funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42657	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42658	Thank you very much for your comment, Honorable Representative Sagar. Of course it's not just Roma who are irresponsible to dogs, there's a lot more dogs in unromantic violence, let's just put it so harshly, which are also in very inadequate conditions, I mentioned this case only in the sense that it was very media-accompanied. So all the media wrote about it, these other cases were unfortunately less written. I've had the opportunity to go to a vet recently and it's startled me by how many animals are coming out, but these animals aren't wounded by other animals, they're wounded by humans, and you really wouldn't believe how many animals are wounded by cold weapons, how many firearms, what kind of injuries do people have in themselves, and we really have to ask ourselves what kind of society we are? When I look at these unloved scenes, sometimes, it really feels sad and I'm kind of demoralized because I wonder if we haven't transported these things how can we get to some of the more important civilization values? So, on the other hand, I support your idea that education is needed. I call on the government and the responsible ministry to carry out positive campaigns, they really don't cost much, and I believe that a lot of public people would get involved in such positive campaigns and if, I don't know, find two athletes, two singers, and let's say two actors, who would invite people to treat animals more humanely, I believe it would be a great effect, and on the other hand, I believe that the cost would be minimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42659	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. Next to the replica reported by an esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42660	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, there's a saying in Slavonia, and she says how much you love a horse, that's how much your soul is worth. I happen to be one of the ones who grows horses, i.e. Now I've got one, and I used to have nine that I've been dealing with cattle that a lot of people talk about, and they don't know, about people who passed the laws on agriculture, so the villages have been disintegrated by both cows and horses and sheep and pigs and everything. So now all we have are cats and dogs wandering the streets for which we have to organize asylum and skippers and everything else that we have to do. But I'll talk to you here. In the media inscriptions especially 24 hours and index.hr was carried out by a horse breeder named Tudja Josip of Oroslavlj, who had about 30 or 50 horses of cassar who dealt with them in sports, a man of all sides, a man who was really a fan of these horses, but because of those who passed laws, especially sports horses, and in favour of the indigenous breeds of our breeds that we have from the sows and lipiscaners and other honorable lipiscans, there are few and there are horses that people held only out of interest and not out of love and not out of hobby. Which they exploited and we say we won't exploit in any more forest work. But when the media deals with such people who gave all their love to horses, in the worst way, they come, they break through those animal guards, which I appreciate when they discover something positive, but also to discover something positive or negative, we would have to know something about these animals, so that in 30 to 50 individuals there are those who are sick, so horses have some pronounced diseases like how much, so bowel diseases are parasites that are weak as humans and animals, 50 of them must be one sick, skinny, I'm one happy and fat. So then they pick one of the worst copies of it, and then journalists who can't wait for something like that then they crucify those honest, honest people who've been doing their job for many years, but they're due to the carelessness of the system and those who pass certain laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42661	Comrade Culey would have asked nicely for your time long ago, so it would be your turn to finish setting up the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42662	I like horses, so I'm on my way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42663	I know you love animals, but your time is up. Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42664	Thank you very much. The media are very useful when they point to the problem of animal torture and on this side should all their efforts be supported, but the truth is that sometimes it is exaggerating. Here I know that one case from Međimurje when a horse died of natural causes and because he died of natural causes so that the boss was accused of torturing animals. And he simply asked them, so have you never seen an animal die as much as a man? It was a case of some kind of really yellow where people were being accused unnecessaryly of what they didn't do. But I'd like to mention when you mentioned the village, say, the problem of the bee. So now you have these dustings maximum with airplanes, throw these pesticides, glyphs on this one... we'll throw it even more in Croatia bees are extinct, so the big problem is that. I don't know if you know it in China people question the hands of fruit. So you have to take your hands and act like a bee, and between two trees, I don't know how to spend two flowers pollinating because simply the bee is gone. Are we so irresponsible that we'll kill all the bees first and then we'll say a word afterwards and there's no fruit. No more apples, no more pears, no more cherries, etc. Then we're going to import it all or we're going to dust it with our hands. So I'm just saying that this problem needs to be looked at as much as possible and realize that everything in this world is interdependent and that a butterfly has something to do with our lives. And that you said well, we can't really do this thing, said colleague Sagar, ask that we are all masters, and that everything else must be subordinated to our interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42665	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for his reply. The next is for the replica, dear colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42666	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you said why the government allowed the regulation to feed the animal GMOs with food. So I'm very interested in whether you really think that we can ban our animal food producers from GMO food because the EU is a European market, because we know that it's not an import, but it's a free-to-border food intake and we also know well that all the food that comes especially from third countries, which I think is a June from Brazil, I keep saying that which has no control is definitely fed by GMO food, so are we correctly prohibiting our producers from feeding GMOs, and all the food that comes from the EU to the tables on our markets is fed to GMO food. I am, however, for it to be firmly, clearly and loudly declared, to encourage the declaration of such food and to encourage GMOs to feed animals free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42667	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for his replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42668	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Križanić. So maybe you should mean today when you have, like, four times less sheep than 100 years ago, when we have ten times less cows and I don't know seven times less horses, the question is, how did people once feed all those animals and didn't have GMOs, what did they feed them with? So in Croatia, processed surfaces of enough resources to feed these animals without GMOs, but in some ways we succumbed to these import lobbys instead of creating legislation and conditions to produce domestic food, healthy food as much as possible ecologically, we now allow that GMO food to be imported, that it feeds on animals. And as far as I hear from farmers they have a lot of problems with these animals around the disease, and I also hear that Croatian citizens also have more and more problems with various diseases that had not existed before. Here's how many shelves are now placed on the stores, gluten allergies, now everyone's suddenly allergic to gluten. And what exactly is this about? It's that the bowel flora was destroyed that the digestive tract was broken with that unquality food and pesticides and that people could no longer eat normally as they ate for thousands of years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42669	I thank my esteemed colleague Bunjuc for his reply. And the last replica after this discussion, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42670	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bunjac. Here's a few times you said that your colleagues are laughing here, so I have to admit that I laughed at some of the things you said, and you clearly don't know much about it, or you haven't experienced these things. As far as adrenaline pollution is concerned, I think it's a minor problem than those of other meat pollution in various chemicals, and these are animals that are not affected by this law and which are not farmed in the Republic of Croatia, but have already been imported since I don't know how long the freezing has ended in our butchers. The other thing is GMO food. We have counties such as my Sisak-Moslavina, which have been declared GMO free, however, there is still a sale of food in Sanu, which is involved where the GMO soybean writes. And one thing is keeping animals on the chain, trust me that in our Croatian village today there are midwives who keep a cow on the chain in their stables, on the chain they take it to the pasture and believe me that this cow loves and appreciates more than maybe you do some people you care about. And many of us grew up on that milk of those cows that were grown on the chain and then there were Croatian bodies for what they were getting, we had the most famous baby beef in Europe, but here's the attitude is not necessarily bad but it's a thing in people who either respect animals or don't respect animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42671	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. The answer to your esteemed colleague, Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42672	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, so as far as this GMO food is concerned, I can only repeat that it is not clear to me why we allowed it, you said that Croatia is GMO, that GMO is a free country, all the counties have declared themselves. So why don't we respect what our county's looking for? I don't understand why the government doesn't respect that. As for this GMO food, it's incomprehensible to me that we still don't have a declaration. So go to any country in the neighborhood, whether Hungary, Slovenia, even Serbia, have a declaration on GMO food and only Croatia has no food. I listened to Minister Tolusic last year, he said we would introduce him. Especially when she was having an affair with that salmonella, it will certainly be, but there are still no stamps. So we have a situation that we're aware of problems but, obviously, some of the interests that are higher than that of the High House, the solution to the problem is not being approached. Well, on that side, I'm also calling for this law and for this CETA that was just before, and some other laws that will therefore come to the conclusion of these promises that have been long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42673	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42674	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. The Animal Protection Act this draft is extremely well adopted by the interested public as well as by animal protection associations and shelters. The existing law dates back to January 2007 with a delay that makes it impossible to keep milk cows in contact with 1.1.2012 and a ban on breeding animals for punishment from 1.1.2017. The proposal of the Animal Protection Act therefore provides for national provisions relating to animal welfare and compliance with the EU acquis on animal welfare, including the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Through the EU pilot, the EU Commission provides additional observations for full transposition into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia into the provisions of Directive 2010/63 of the EU, and the proposal for a law provides for provisions which are fully adopted by this Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. This Proposal for a Animal Protection Act takes care of the need to protect animal welfare during their use, whether as farm animals, test animals, zoo animals, different activities from breeding, keeping, working, selling, fun to socialise with animals and pets. The new law further extends the range of illicit animal activities, such as keeping captive dolphins, sexual relations between human and animal animals, pulling out live animal feathers, shooting animals, throwing firecrackers at animals, using animals that are not yet sexually mature, using hooves to extract troops except in exceptional conditions, exposing dogs to bought ears and tails and keeping them captive bears. It's all normal for us now, but a lot has been done so far. Further progress in technology will stop the need to use comas for so-called comas. ... But in unaccessible forest areas, there is certain need for such work today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law also mentions the extraction of troops under the same concept... , however, I believe that there is a need to clearly distinguish other works with which in the forest, so-called. renting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These works include not only the extraction of logs but also the introduction of wood from the forest by horseback, which are actions that cannot be subjected to the same concept but do not have the same weight in terms of well-being. Personally, I believe that these work horses in specific situations, therefore inaccessible terrains and under controlled conditions can be allowed. The bill sets out the obligation for the competent authorities of the state administration and the bodies of units of local and regional self-government, the development of public awareness and, in particular, of young people, including the owners of animals, to protect animals, and thus will affect better law enforcement and thus improve well-being. In this respect, it is also necessary to take into account the animal’s needs to show their kind of behaviour and to ensure appropriate accommodation, food and treatment when they are concerned. Strengthening the awareness of consumers who show an increasing interest in animal products held on farms with high standards of well-being that cross the minimum requirements and this law is a good basis for further development, improving the conditions of well-being, for growing, using rural development funds, i.e. the programme of measures aimed at improving animal welfare. It's another very important factor of this law. This segment is important in the farming of farm animals not only for the sake of well-being but also for the use of expiring resources that promote higher levels of animal welfare from rural development funds without use, which our cattlemen will find very difficult to compete with EU cattle farmers, for example in one rich Finland, from these sources, for the prescribed more standards of breeders, e.g. The larger square of the floor or full floor, free keeping of animals, natural light, ventilation, prescribed drinking water, veterinary care during delivery, etc., is given to cattle farmers from EU common funds 300 euros per feeder, which means that every year we are remounting to a wealthy Finnish farmer of the EU, or all of us, every year. We from these sources to today, ladies and gentlemen, are not pulling anything. And how would our peasants be competitive? We must, therefore, urgently create preconditions for withdrawing the funds of EU rural development funds. The Irish have withdrawn about 100m euros from this programme in 2014-2020. Other ways, so-called. a hidden subsidisation of the domestic production of certain Member States without speaking. This law also encourages responsible possession of animals in all areas of animal use. Especially pets. As the most sensitive group of animals the public is most interested in and about which my predecessors spoke today, which are dogs and cats. Responsibilities of the dog or cat are labelling, rabies vaccination, and other necessary vaccinations to preserve animal health and reproduction control, castration, sterilisation, which is also an effective measure of reducing the number of abandoned dogs and cats, and not abandoning its own pet. There's no such thing as a stray dog as a term, that's what we introduced him, every dog had a owner and he became a stray the moment we left him. Further measures laid down by this law lead to the control of the breeding of pets and the control of their sales with a view to ensuring animal welfare both during breeding and for the sale of animals. Therefore, in addition to the registration of pet breeding, with three or more breeding females of the same species, the owners of less than three breeding females of the same species are also prescribed to register, if they sell their animals cubs, thus allowing the monitoring of animal welfare conditions to be monitored. For the purpose of simplifying the procedure in the Register of Pets kept by the Ministry of Agriculture, the records of owners with less than a breeding female shall also be established. Registration of owners of animals holding less than three breeding females of the same species shall also allow their equal participation in the market. This enables them to sell animals legally in pet stores. For the purpose of advertising dogs for the purpose of selling or changing ownership, it shall be determined by the obligation of both sellers and advertisers to publish a registered breed or registered owner, with less than three breeding females. At that time, public concerns are high, with regard to the abandonment of animals, this bill provides for a more effective solution to that problem to the obligations of animal owners in terms of responsible animal possession, labelling, vaccination, care, not abandonment, breeding control. A unit of local or regional regional self-government setting up shelters, setting up coordination working groups and enforcing a public awareness obligation especially for young people on the need for animal protection. For the purpose of providing abandoned animals n the area of each unit of regional or regional self-government, at least one shelter with a capacity of at least 50 places shall be established. And local self-government units finance its establishment and work. Animals in the shelter remain until home, i.e. no longer possible euthanasia of animals after 60 days. Such a provision by the Republic of Croatia makes a strong step in the standards and welfare of animals and stands by the shoulders of the EU's most humane countries, and surely this act is to be welcomed, it is certain that there will be a problem related to the financing of the shelter, but this is another story. The implementation of laws and guidance of efforts and resources to control microchiping of castration programmes, sterilisation of systematic animal advertising and education of the population in particular of young people can even infuse financial savings with a view to preventing the cause of the problem rather than solving the consequences. For the purpose of more effective fostering animals in the Pets Register, the establishment of a Unique Information Centre for abandoned and lost animals will allow public insight into all abandoned animals in the Republic of Croatia. This draft law prescribes units of the regional self-government of the obligation to set up coordination racial groups and determines members of coordination working groups who, through their experience, good practices and knowledge and interest in the given problem as well as knowledge of local situations and possibilities, can best determine the measures and priorities to address animal welfare issues. The coordination working groups should also play an educational role that increases the awareness of animal owners, as well as the public as a whole, to ensure the welfare of animals. For the purpose of reducing the populations of abandoned dogs, the units of local self-government shall ensure that the implementation of mandatory microchip of dogs is monitored by 30 June 2018. For the purpose of preventing excessive reproduction of pets and thus abandoning them, animal owners are obliged to ensure that their reproduction is controlled. However, in the event that too many abandoned dogs are identified in some areas, the means of funding and breeding control may be prescribed in that area and the minister. The proposal for a law provides for inspection of the implementation of this law by veterinarians, i.e. agricultural inspectors, the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs, municipal directors, in accordance with the general acts of the representative bodies of the units of local self-government, it is certain that further education of these communal directors will be needed in relation to the emerging situation. In order to implement the law, units of local self-government should provide resources to assist injured animals and to operate animal shelters. At the annual level, it's on a 549000 kuna shelter, probably based on these 50 dogs. Surely that figure will rise if there are more of those dogs, and there will probably be more. A total of 11 million 529000 kuna for 21 shelters, for the construction of three shelters that have not been established so far in Brodo-Posavina, Dubrovnik and Licko-Senj County, it is still necessary to provide 13 million 878 thousand 500 kuna in the 18th year. The funds for the creation of a single information centre for the purpose of hosting animals and the records of pet owners intended for sale with less than three breeding females of the same type as the share of pet registers in total amounting to 100 thousand kuna will be financed by the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. Until the second reading, this law will surely experience some adjustments and additions, but the HDZ Club will support this important, comprehensive and above all useful, human law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42675	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a colleague named Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42676	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Krizanic. Of course, from the debate so far, it is obvious that everyone will support the adoption of this law for several reasons because it further expands the range of illicit animal activities. You yourself have stated that that part includes pulling the feathers of living animals, throwing firecrackers, shooting animals, using animals to work. It also prescribes the obligations of the owner with regard to the responsible possession of animals such as vaccination, labelling, reproduction control and the like. And that's all right until we get to one big but that's finance. Of course, it is to be expected that all owners of animals and pets will have one humane relationship with their pets, but they always appear unconscious. For them, i.e. The abandoned animal law provides for the construction of a shelter for animals. However, this is the obligation of a local self-government unit, or regional, and that is certainly the cost. And now we have one situation that often discusses decentralisation. Mayors, the mayors believe that they should receive larger budgets. But they often get extra commitments. Therefore, I believe that this law should certainly be supported, but it would be good to now be in the budget, i.e.. prepare the budget for the following year to provide for greater and more significant funds for these purposes, to help municipalities and cities, i.e. to finance the part. I think it would certainly be desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42677	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle. The answer of my colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42678	I thank you for that. It's a question of all the questions. Local self-government units were involved in the public debate of this law through the municipality association. Surely at that point, it was necessary to say, express the problem of financing this law and I want to say very clearly that every super standard, this is certainly a great super standard that no great cities, many large cities of European capitals like Vienna or Budapest or Prague have no No Kill shelters. And if Croatia is set for No Kill shelters and one human gesture, which is not killing dogs after 60 days it costs something. And it is certain that units of local self-government will probably appeal to the central government to meet them in that section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42679	I thank you for your response to my colleague Križanić. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Damir Felak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42680	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Križanić. I've been listening very closely to your discussion and I'd like to perhaps supplement that exposure a little bit when you were talking about using hooves to extract troops from the woods. Since that's my waist here, it's supposed to be Samaritans. That's not true. I should think of a similar formulation as you said, which means using hooves to extract logs from the woods. And it's also for bringing out warm wood from the woods. People who pull logs out of the woods are called renters, and people who use hooves, first of all, horses to carry warm wood out of the woods in Samaras, so these two terms should be introduced here. And I'm saying to add to this pulling the logs out of the woods, as well as taking the heating wood out of the woods. This is the case in Article 5(2), point 31 and secondly in the case of criminal provisions in Article 87. I'd like to say to you that I think my colleague Strick said a lot about these obligations of units of regional self-government, possible new financial commitments. I'd just add that this obligation is to report, so to speak, the movement of abandoned animals. I don't know how much it's actually going to be implemented in practice, knowing all the obligations that communal directors still have today. And I think we should think a little bit about doing it in some other way or finding financial resources that would allow local self-government units to hire then new people on these jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42681	I thank my colleague, Felak. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42682	I thank my colleague, Felak, and I agree with you, or you agree with me. At the beginning of my presentation, I said that the term for renting should be distinguished from the terms of samaring. Here renting isn't a wide enough term for all the work that horses do in the woods. The fact is that in some non-accessible areas of the Republic of Croatia, today, working horses are used for certain operations, which are called the extraction of logs or the export of wood by means of means of a car. Such actions will be very difficult to prohibit, and I do not agree that such actions should be prohibited in such non-accessible areas, because horses are intended, they are working animals, and are just intended for such jobs, and as far as communal directors and their work in local self-government units are concerned, I agree with you that they are otherwise burdened with many other jobs. If that job goes down on them, surely they'll have to be educated in microchip control, with those controllers. On the other hand, education should be made urgently, I appeal to the ministry that when this law is passed, education should be made for these communal directors, to teach them such actions, because without these things they will be very difficult to do at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42683	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. The next replica was reported by a esteemed colleague, Mladen Madyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42684	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Križanić, in the area of Koprivnica Crossing County, has a shelter that removes from 3 cities and a belonging municipality, stopping somewhere around 40 dogs, and it has around most of them not microchipted. So they're not microchip, they can't be found by the owner, and they're left with the capacity that will be filled in next month and they won't be able to receive it anymore. I'm asking a question. Who will finance soon-filled shelters and how many new conditions should be the capacity of these new shelters, given that after 60 days and this law I support that there is no euthanasia. That's normal. It is also being asked, and this was already a question, it will finance whether the state is going to go to a new law, that it also finance the implementation of the law, or to lower funds to local self-government. And as for the communal directors, you said they needed to be educated. Well, I think the municipalities have veterinary facilities, they have their concessions. And since you're a veteran doctor, you know. So we're going to educate the communal directors to read the microchip, and what does the veterinary inspection do? What are vets doing? The communal monks will be vets, they'll be builders and everything. So another load to the communal directors. I don't think that's right. Since I've been a longtime chief, I know what the problems are and that's the problem. But to put it down to the communal directors, and at the same time the veterinary cells have a concession in certain areas, I think it's on their own and veterinary inspection to determine those dogs that are not microchipted and that the state pays for this peacekeeping. Not bring down units of local self-government to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42685	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mader. Answer Mr. Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42686	I thank my colleague Mader for these questions. These are all life questions that we could certainly discuss for a few hours. So if there are 40 dogs, it's a microchip obligation after 10 days and that's it, those dogs should be microchip by now. Who will pay for the further stay of those dogs? The local self-government unit will co-finance, it's prescribed by this law. How the situation will be resolved further, if the shelter is filled with more than 50 dogs. So that's where we go back to that problem of human education, that dogs aren't strays by themselves, but we're letting them go, and the problem is that shelters will have to go into the obligation of fostering these animals. It's safe that if the situation happens, that it's going to go enormously into a situation where there's going to be a lot of dogs, it's going to be very difficult to finance the units of local self-government, that's what I'm talking about. When you talk about communal directors. I know they have certain units of local self-government with veterinary organisations contracts to collect stray dogs and it will still be able to stay. In that case, the veterinary organisation will load the microchip and return the dogs to the owner. However, this law went with reducing the cost of municipalities, and the municipality has a municipal director to read the chip and call the owner and solve the problem if possible. If it isn't, it'll be called a veterinary organization, just like you said. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42687	I thank my colleague Križanić for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42688	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, namely, the proposed bill must have made a step in certain provisions compared to the current law, however, several problems have turned out in this debate so far. So I'm going to point out the problems of taking care of animals myself, because, of course, the law is trying to protect those animals, above all that are abandoned. I think it's actually the biggest problem we have today, abandoned pets. The animals that are grown here and there are not so many problems, and especially these animals that are used for experiments, they are done by certain standards. I must point out that, in fact, the biggest problem for me is that people consciously take animals for pets and then after a certain time realize that they don't really need a pet, that it's too much of a burden, then they go on an annual basis, they have nowhere with it, and what will leave it in front of a shelter or somewhere in the woods and there's a problem. And what's going on? All of us who really like animals. I have two pets, two dogs I care about regularly, I care about their health. It all costs money, but if you want to have a pet, then you've made up your mind. But also, tax money pays all of us who don't care. And I think that stopping the punishments of such owners should and more control solve this problem the most. Because putting all the burden on local units isn't the answer. I have to tell you that if you compare a dog's food day in a shelter, then you'll get the information that that dog's food day at the shelter costs more than the meals of a child in a carefree child's home. And the units of the locals when they are discussing the competition are obliged to accept the offer of that offer of shelter offered by the most favourable price, and if we limit ourselves to a particular area from which a concessionary or one who has shelter should be, then we are very limited in the choice of those who have shelter. So I think that in this way we're going to create a huge burden for local units, and I agree with this on municipal redistribution, I don't think that's the answer because they've taken over the business of traffic control, part of the work of the Construction Act seems to me, and I'm not going to say it wrong now, and there's a colleague who's going to fix me, but they're determining which buildings are dangerous for the lives of people and passersby, and then they have to react there as well. I don't think that's really how we're gonna solve our problems, and that's where we need to make some moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42689	Thank you, colleague. Please be careful on time. Mr. Križanić, make this a waste of time in your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42690	I listened to her colleague and she didn't exactly ask me a question, but I'll try to comment on her views. Education of people about not leaving animals is very important. The obligation to microchip is another thing that once we have one high level of microchip, we'll always be able to find the owner. So if they're going to have 95% or 98, they're never going to have 100 or 90% of microchip dogs, so that's going to be less so-called. A stray dog that I say we can't use because no stray dog on its own is, but the irresponsible owner made it a stray. I've been a longtime chief and I'm aware of what you're saying. I know that local self-government is getting more and more busy, but in this area where communal directors would be involved, I think it's only going to be in that part to teach them to read the microchip so that they can solve the problem as soon as possible that they don't have to call each time a veterinary organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42691	Thank you very much for making up for your time. The next replica is a distinguished colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42692	Your Honor, Vice President. When you mentioned 100 million euros for these rich countries that invest in rural development and traditional animal farming, I had a light on how we did it in our Croatia and what we copied from the laws we used in our country. In fact, we all know well that we have prescribed standards on which farms in Croatia will be built, so we have promoted thousands of credits to projects, advertised, encouraged people to take these large loans, which then made large farms with ceramic tiles inside, with clay walls, with glass outside, and with special fertilisers, thrusters in that mushroom famozine as they call it, and then came to the nitrate directives, so we have placed that cattle within a meter of the length of the chain, so that cattle was sick of lying down, of the disease of the rat and of the rest, to finally get to know and finance again what our old self-sustained development, rural development, ecological development, and everything else. I'm wondering if we should have started with that right from the beginning, so I won't look back at the hooves, but I'll say something for the hooves, it would have been a very good incentive to not have this 100 million, but at least one million euros in the yards of the Slavonian peasants and return them to the original grounds of breeding at least black pigs so that at least we could survive if we were in anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42693	I'd like to thank my colleague Culley for the replica. The answer of my colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42694	This law is the basic law of the roof law for the adoption of a national over-standard programme that we must urgently adopt to withdraw all these funds that we have talked about so far. I have said only one example of 100m euros have so far withdrawn the Finns from the EU programme, but they have planned to withdraw eight billion from the 2014-2020 period. So not that we should have done that we had opportunities two years ago. I urge the Ministry of State to transfer to the Secretary of State that this national programme be made as soon as possible to make our cattlemen, we have good farms, our many farms are space shuttles and we can withdraw funds as far as standards are concerned we just need to make a national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42695	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42696	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Animals, which was referred to in the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which provides a series of provisions that will improve the existing situation when we talk about animal protection. In particular, it is good to specify provisions that prohibit and further regulate inadequate behaviour towards animals such as cutting the ears of dogs, their constant binding and keeping in closed rooms, the use of animals in circus performances, their abuse, etc. I also welcome the provisions that have been introduced earlier in relation to the breeding of animals for the fur that have already entered into force. Following the above mentioned club, the National Minorities will support the adoption of this law as it promotes the existing situation. On this occasion, however, I would like to address the problem of abandoned and lost animals in Roma settlements, especially in Međimurje County, which was brought out in all the media last year and caused the anger of the Animal and Public Protection Associations. It is a problem that this law itself without further efforts, the institution will not be resolved. I'm taking this opportunity to condemn every violent behavior on animals and their abuse, which often goes unpunished. I hope that the application of this law will cover as many such persons as possible. Unfortunately, to this day, we have not seen that the problem of abandoned dogs and their abuse has been solved nor have we been able to see a systematic approach to this great problem. As a major obstacle to resolving the problem of dogs in the međimurje and other Roma settlements, the financial constraints of local self-government and the inability of the Ministry of Agriculture and other national institutions to find a solution and means to address this problem have been shown. I've been warning about this problem since 2015 and before. In December 2015, I organised a meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture while the minister was Tihomir Jakovina. The same was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Health, representatives of Međimurje County and representatives of the asylum from Čakovec. At that time, we estimated that there were about 2.5 thousand dogs of unknown owners in Međimurje County, which means they were not chipped, recorded in the system, and that they were not receiving the necessary vaccines. The institutions are therefore very well aware of this problem. Even then, it was clear that these dogs were exposed to inhumane conditions and were even used for each other’s struggles and were abused in the worst way. At this moment, only in the Roma village of Kursanac is about 400 unsettled dogs, a dog asylum in Čakovec also 400 dogs with a constant overdoing of new animals. Because of the irresponsible individuals, the Roma community was hit by the public and then no sustainable solution to the problem was presented. Today, the problem is certainly bigger and bigger, but it doesn't come to the public until there's an incident. The isolated incidents then hit the entire Roma community even though the Roma community cares for these dogs, feeds them and protects them as much as it can. The Roma settlements are except for a dump where the majority of the population often leaves their waste also becomes a place where the dogs they leave before leaving for a year, going abroad and so forth. It is one established practice that asylum leaders in Međimurje can confirm. Due to the lack of political will to address this problem and to approach it at national level, the inability of local authorities and the lack of will in part of local self-government, this problem will only grow, and in the long run we will not be able to solve it without even higher costs for the state, but as we estimate it would cost at this point. The solution imposed as the only one is the disposal of these dogs and their sterilisation through means to be provided through the Ministry and the parallel imposition of the obligation of local self-government to make the programmes and the necessary operational plans to be used constructively. I'm sorry we didn't do anything about it in 2015. The last attempt to talk to the Ministry of Agriculture I tried to run in February 2017 and so far I have not received an answer. In co-ordination with the town of Čakovec, who is interested in seriously accessing the problem of dogs in the Roma settlement Kursanac, a letter was sent to the esteemed Minister Tolusic on 9 February 2017. The same letter I repeated on February 17th also to the cabinet but here I have no feedback until today. In parallel with the uncontrollable situation that we have in 12 međimurje and other Roma settlements, I have to point out also part of the cause of the problem when talking about selling and raising dogs. Namely, if a person owns up to three breeding dogs, he is obliged only to register it in the register of the Ministry of Agriculture until he is subject to any control when selling or profiting from the sale of purebred dogs. The Internet is full of ads with purebred dogs on black, whose sales are not subject to any control, which is one of the causes of the current situation. I therefore advocate that the control of such cultivation is further formalised and that the Ministry of Finance is more seriously involved in this and controls every kind of decline that has become a good source of uncontrolled earnings for us. This way, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture to encourage local self-government units to address the accumulated problems both to the benefit of these animals and to the benefit of local communities and their health and any other safety. This example shows that we do not care about the problems that occur in distant Roma settlements. While such situations would be impossible in Dubrovnik, Split, and other tourist cities. The problem I'm talking about is in the media, because of the isolated incidents, and it's just as fast from these same media. So media appearance has shown the Roma community as animal abusers and as a potential cause of the problem but in any case it is not. The Roma community has become sheltered for those dogs that are equally forgotten and distant from their former owners, such as Roma from the minds of the majority population in those areas. The conditions of living in Roma settlements are almost equally bad for both animals and humans. Instead of being just as energetic as pointing our finger at the Roma community, we would have had a sustainable solution and a half-solved problem by now. In order to create a prerequisite for the consistent implementation of this law, we first need to remove these anomalies and emergency situations that have been going on for years because the bill in this form does not oblige local self-government authorities or allow them to deal with this extraordinary problem even when they are willing to do so. Once again, I urge competent institutions to take the necessary steps and to launch action or operational plans, sterilisation and housing of dogs from the area of Međimurje County and other parts of our country. Of course, considerable resources are needed, some estimates say that legal and humane dog problems in Međimurje County would need to be allocated to 2 million and 400,000 kunas, which local self-government units cannot find on their own. In this way, in order to open up the possibility that we can do so, we propose an amendment that will give local self-government units the opportunity to prescribe sterilization in cases where it proves necessary. To irresponsible individuals with large numbers, let's... that further just multiply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, on the proposal of Animal Friends with which I agree, I propose the adoption and amendment relating to dogs and cats in hunting grounds, in order to sanction the killing of abandoned or lost dogs and cats in hunting grounds by hunters, I suggest that from the provision of this law concerning the exemption of dogs and cats in hunting grounds, these animals are protected from the will of hunters. If we are to consistently implement not this law, but a policy that will take care of animal welfare, but also our citizens, we must take additional steps to implement the idea in practice, because without further effort, the law itself does not change anything. Thank you, and I hope it won't be two more years and this problem will have to be exposed in this same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42697	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Velya Katazia, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Young Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42698	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Kajtazi, you mentioned on several occasions units of local self-government that they did not do certain things that they needed to do about Roma settlements. I can specifically say that in my community, you know that it's the same thing as a Roma settlement, that we've done in the course of the year twice to catch dogs, clearly at the expense of the community because we know how much it costs to catch dogs and when it drives to a stationary, but I'm asking you, are not Roma clearly to blame, so I agree that dogs... I'm glad they're dog lovers, too, and dogs come to them and they... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to the harm of those who have left behind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But at the same time, since the secretary of state is there, I suggest that there, means all that price, because units of local self-government are unable to finance this, to pass on to the Ministry of Agriculture, so local self-government units will certainly organise the implementation and capture of dogs in Roma settlements. I think that, first of all, the Ministry of Agriculture must be more involved in that part than just the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42699	I thank my esteemed colleague, Madero. The answer to my imported colleague, Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42700	Thank you. Dear colleague, I fully agree with you as I have pointed out on many occasions. I tried to arrange a meeting not only with the Ministry of Agriculture but also with those other institutions because the Ministry of Health is one of the important ones. Because we're all aware of what's going on and what's going on in Roma settlements, just these poor animals that are pulling different epidemics, infections, etc. It is true that local self-government cannot manage alone, and local self-government can also organise or report to certain competitions where vaccination and chipping can be organised and all additionally. What worries me the most is those stray dogs that come to the Roma settlement, and so miserable and miserable as the members of the Roma community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42701	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia, for his reply. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independents and HSU, distinguished colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal of the Animal Protection Act that we will have opportunities through two readings, so it is the first reading, which every time I use the opportunity to praise because it is extremely good, it can be discussed and through the debate, of course, the Proposer can through another reading and some other things. Equally, this is a law that was held in a public debate somewhere in August, September 2016. So it's been a month and it's caused a lot of public attention and it's commended to the public because there are a number of things that are good in this law. And indeed not only is compliance with EU directives but we have indeed made one step towards the law we have had. The steps this law has made are tied first and basic to... I.e. the disappearance and killing of dogs in shelters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to correcting this injustice, it brings many advantages because it will also encourage shelters to advertise and host animals, as well as castration and education programmes, and thus contribute to better implementation of this law. Equally, the law has stricter new criminal obligations. The new provision is that every county should also have a shelter, so that the shelter that this hour does not have Ličko-senjska and Brod-Posaviska and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. He'll have to. It's December 31st, 2018. A pretty important part of the law is education. Education should, of course, be from the earliest age. Each of us met sooner or later with the fact that we should have a pet and I think it's already said when we have the most abandoned pets we're talking about dogs and cats. When you go on vacation, and then the result is the same as those who have cottages at sea, when you leave the cottages. Around those cottages at sea or wherever they're flying, we have a bunch of dogs and cats that are really worried. A series of things have already been said in this law, but I'd like to sort of focus on some things. We also had opportunities to see the influence of the media when it comes to animals, or rather pets. If you remember a few years ago there was in one of our seasons, a time when there wasn't much in the media events in all the diaries, on all the TVs there were pictures of a dog diving at a depth of four metres and everyone admired that dog where the owner puts down a plastic bag that was white. And now that dog is diving four feet away. Absolutely unacceptable. It seemed to me that for the punishment of that owner was a dog, not commendable, but we commended it. And recently there was also a case of a dog from the Istrian county where Medo was barking, and then there was a judicial dispute and in the end Medo lost in the court dispute, and that court dispute ended so that the bear was forbidden to bark. And we're all very inclined, so it's all good-looking together, but we have to ask ourselves, because he's always human in everything. It's the man who doesn't say for his right many times that the owner of the dog is very much like the dog he owns. So pets are the result of the environment in which we live, and that is what dogs and cats are, and that is what dogs need to talk about. But I wanted to focus my discussion on two things. These two things are, first of all, we all like to talk about decentralisation and we love the law to say that something will do to municipalities and cities. With these municipalities and cities, we do not provide funds for them to do so. Very lightly in any regulation and in any law we say it is the obligation of the units of local self-government, so if they can't, then it will be the obligation of units of regional, or regional self-government. And let's see what we're talking about. Croatia has 556 municipalities and towns, i.e. 555 plus the city of Zagreb very different. As we are different here, so are our municipalities and cities. They're different assets that they manage. They have municipalities and cities that can do some very simple jobs, and they have municipalities and cities that some jobs simply can't do. And that's everyone in your area that you're coming to, we need to be aware of that. And so, when we put the provision into law, the obligation of the unit of local self-government, that is, municipalities and cities, we have to keep that in mind. Because my experience suggests that at least half the municipalities and cities, regardless, we will support this law. The law is very correct. The law has made a major step forward and all associations through a public debate have equally supported and it is absolutely good. It's a question of his great conduct. Those obligations that the municipalities and the cities of half of them will not be able to do so and we need to know this moment. And this moment that we're going to have municipalities that are simply not going to be able to implement, because they have a budget so small that they can't do any elemental things, that I'm not talking about unclassified roads and a series of other things, they won't have to do this, and we need to be aware of that. And when we pass such a law, then we should take care of what decentralisation means. decentralisation doesn't mean we give someone a job. He means that we need to provide him with the means to make sure that he can carry them out. It's real decentralisation. decentralisation when you give someone a job and no means is a dead letter on paper. See how many provisions there are in this law that it is the obligation of the units of local self-government. And now I'm going to come up with a few lines about the communal directors. Now it's next. When we don't know who's supposed to do what, then our rescue solution is going to be the communal director. Out of 556 municipalities and cities, everyone has no utility. Somewhere a hundred, according to the last record I had, I had relatively through, like, a year ago, I don't think anything changed a hundred municipalities and cities don't have communal offices, but they have some sort of agreement with some other community that certain jobs are being done by municipal directors. Let's see who the communal directors are. Communal monks are usually middle-skillers. And let's see what they're up to now, as soon as they're in business, what they're doing. When they were founded, they were founded by the Law on the Communist Economy, so what was in the Law on the Communist Economy was the obligation of the communal directors. Communal monks charge, i.e. to print parking tickets on the green surface. They're printing for air conditioning if I'm going on a facade. They are in charge of identifying works that are not considered to be the basis of the Construction Act. They're in charge of determining if anyone has a certificate. Is there someone with a flower jar where you shouldn't have? To charge for terraces that have tables and chairs where they shouldn't have. Then, under the Agricultural Land Act, they got some more jurisdiction, I failed, and I asked to see what they were, so I couldn't collect and see. Equally, they will now be given jurisdiction under this law. I made a joke at one point. My people, we, the people who have medium professional equipment, who are basically employed in certain jobs that are tied up in the Law on the Communist Economy, are giving new jobs. The question is the moment when they're gonna measure the pressure, the only thing that I know is that they don't work and they don't deal with it like this in divorce cases they don't do anything about it. The joke aside, but we need to be aware that it's not good, that when we don't know who's going to do what, we're transferring it to the communal directors because it's a rescue solution. It's certainly not a rescue solution. So, I can repeat and I can say what I said in the introduction. This law is a big step. The law is very correct. The law has made, not only compliance with the EU directives, but it has made a major step both in the way and in considering how we treat animals. So, it's always the attitude of people to animals. However, this law, as well as a number of other laws, has really opened up two problems. That one problem, that we easily transfer to municipalities and cities, we must be aware of what municipalities and cities we have, my people. Not everyone can. And of course, that problem of communal directors, when we don't know about them. They just, you know what, when they get too much work, they don't do anything and I'm afraid that's how it's gonna end. Let's say the City of Zagreb has a municipal redistribution, somewhere over 100 people work in this municipal redistribution. He asked for the City of Zagreb, if all the jobs are they enough. But you know very well that there are a lot of former chiefs and current commissioners sitting in our ranks, and you know very well what their communal order is like and what it can do. Since the law is in the first reading, for the second reading, we will prepare 3 amendments, but perhaps, if the Proposer decides, he may be able to think about it and install it, so there is no need. First amendment, that's what my colleague Katazi used to say, when it comes to hunting grounds, that's the provision of Article 3, where he says that this law does not apply to hunting and game management, and we would like more sentences to be added, excluding dogs and cats in hunting grounds because we actually see that in hunting grounds we have abandoned dogs and cats. It's the first amendment. The second amendment is about the ban on fighting staged animal conflicts, and it's about talking about traditional bull competition, it's not exactly a case for us, so I think it's a place in this law, that we're also saying no. And the third is related to the animals used in experiments, after the attempt at the bill is that these animals die, we think we should only add, if it is not possible to adopt them. Maybe... of these animals can be adopted, and only after that to be killed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To repeat, our club will support this law. I'd like these three things that we said, the proposer to consider, so maybe until the second reading is incorporated into the final draft of the law. But this is a really good example to think about all together here, which means when we make an easy commitment to municipalities and cities and let's protect those poor communal monks. They can't really do everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42703	Thank you, too, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. We have six replicas. The first is Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you are, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42704	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, I welcome the motionaries. Here's one thing that got in my eyes. At first, I'm glad we have a casual theme like this after this CETA, which is one I think is a key document that we discussed earlier. Now we have a more casual topic. And I'm curious about it like this. Wild animals are all animals except domestic animals, pets, official animals and working animals. Furthermore, domestic animals are animals that are domesticated, domesticated and grown for food production and for animal feed, by-products of animal origin that are not for human consumption. And what about the animals that went wild. Here's what I'm going to say is a concrete example. In my Sibenik, in my neighborhood where I live in Sibenik Varosha, there are many, 100 cats living on the street. What are they? Are they wild? Are they domestic animals, or do we treat them according to this law as wild animals or domestic animals? If they're wild, then we have to get them back to the natural habitat, and they're not domestically safe, because a man can't approach them. They're animals that can't be anointed, that a man can't touch, that he can't care about as domestic animals. I'm going to give you one question that I'm personally interested in because here I am, in my home, I have a situation that I have constantly new kittens that aren't piety, who are wild. What do you do with them? How do you treat them? Like a wild animal or a domestic? I don't think it's covered by this law, and I think it's necessary to further define. Well, here's colleague Dark, maybe you can start a little bit, so later the proposer can help solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42705	Thank you. It's starting to be an interesting debate. Here you go, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42706	Yeah, the debate is very interesting. My colleague Zekanovic, I really can't say something like this in a manner of measure when the animal is pitomatous, and when it goes wild. It's hard for me to tell which moment is when someone's going wild. And in a man it's hard to determine, let alone an animal, but I can agree with you that it might really be a little bit of an explanation, so it's something for the promoters, for the ministry, that they might see this kind of sensitive difference. But what I've learned is somehow animals always go wild when their owners are about the same, so they're the result of their owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42707	It's already a ski slope. Mr. Milorad Batinić, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42708	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash I agree with everything you said in your debate, and the taste that I realized is that it's working on that sentence, it's the responsibility of the local self-government unit, and that's where we actually stop. We never take into account the fiscal strength of these units of local self-government, and we can see very easily today we have data on it, we have a development index as it is, but it is still some indication of the development of our local units. And this bill again suggested that something be transferred to those local self-government units. Some of them will surely fulfil all these obligations, not to be represented by some large financial expenditure, but some local units such as my town of Pregrad or local units in Zagorje, Varazdin, Međimurje that have unfortunately low original incomes will be a huge expense to their budgets, and we have problems with that. We're definitely having problems with that, which is why I disagree. Article 7 is that the cost of the treatment of injured animals cannot be determined by the owner of units of local self-government. We cannot do this in this way, we must finally set some criteria and thus distribute the obligations and give some kind of financial resources accordingly. You also mentioned the communal directors, yes, indeed their powers or obligations are extremely large even you didn't say perhaps agriculture can also be entrusted in one part to the communal directors and some local units do so. Of course, those who are unable to form the agricultural redistribution that we must also form according to the law, and of course, agricultural redistribution, or agricultural director, also requires the same amount of expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42709	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Exactly, a colleague is that I deliberately focused my discussion on the club's name on these two problems because what's good in the law are already my predecessors said and I think others will talk about. However, we really need to talk about that in Croatia when we talk about developing unbalanced development, when we talk about the financial opportunities of individual units of local self-government as much as the difference is too large. So in the city of Zagreb a few or three years ago, our mayor said that we would have DNA or DNA analysis of feces from dogs because the dogs were microchipted and then an analysis would be done, so the owners who don't collect remains behind their dogs on the city streets would be punished. So the city of Zagreb has gone so far as to think about it, and we have here as counterpart Kajtazi spoke we have, say, the obligation of certain municipalities and bastards when it comes to Roma settlements and really about dogs out there who are both strays and large amounts of dogs that they should also take care of or kill or castrate or do something without financial opportunities to do so. And what we have to do, and this law is an example of a law that shows that if we make a commitment to municipalities and cities, we have to give them a financial opportunity to actually do it because the budgets are extremely different. There are those who can actually do it with their budgets, and there are those who can't do it and they won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42711	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42712	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, you said a lapus that the owners of a dog or cats are similar to a dog. It was supposed to be the other way around, now imagine what a dog would look like from our chairman, Mr. Radin, that would be one dog of collective character traits and we'd know it was a good dog. I wanted to say something so your debate was a life debate, I appreciate it, you were talking about communal directors that I'm going to say in my individual debate, I'm going to say one example of good from Germany, but since you here in Zagreb, I'm going to remind you of something that I noticed when you're walking around Zrinjevac in a beautiful park where early in the morning hundreds of dog owners are walking around, many of them are responsible dogs because of their physiological needs they clean it up, the city of Zagreb has got buckets, bags, but there are also those who don't. Not everyone has to love dogs, cats, not everyone has to have pets and should have understanding for those citizens who don't. The very same night on Tomislav away from Zrnivec was Zagreb classic, the Opera "Ero from the world after" appeared where hundreds of people with children were lying on that grass. I don't think that's appropriate and that the communal directors of what you said could be very difficult to arrange or very difficult to charge those penalties, to catch those animals or their owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42713	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My buddy Babic, he was a bit of a lapus, but I have to admit, I was thinking about my experience. So I've had a dog since my earliest life and in one period when we had one order as was my sister who was practicing the piano the dog was with her and had to listen to her exercise the piano and it was a dog that always while he was alive when she heard the music any one was freaked out. He was freaked out because of her, or because of us, because we made him think that some of the things that the piano exercise had caused him to be stressed for his whole life. However, let us return to the subject of the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is different, there are some benefits that the rest of Croatia do not have and we must make that clear. The city of Zagreb has, say, dog meadows. There is a possibility where you can really go with your pet, run, or with a dog, it's taken care of, there's a lot of places where you have bags and then you can, and people have certain habits. I live in the part of the head of Ratkai Passage that connects Vlaška and Martić and the place where there is no way that if you don't look out to pass there that you don't have to clean your shoes because it's just talking about people and always talking about people. And when it comes to animals, we're actually talking about people and the attitude of people to animals. Equally, one dog meadow in one part of Zagreb, the western part was caused by the revolt, the revolt of the other residents who said that the dogs who come to that meadow bother them for their lives to come early in the morning, to bark and everything else. You can't please everyone. But I think the good meadows where the dogs come in, and also here, I'm flying to Novi Vinodolski, there neatly along the promenade you have the same places where the bags are. And in fact, how we take care of dogs and pets, or animals, always depends on man.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42715	Thank you very much. She has the right to the replica of Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42716	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I really appreciate your debate and you've actually offered to report me to the part where you were actually talking about burdening units of local and regional that have really been hard to bear so far. And now that there is no more death after 60 days, that obligation will surely be greater. However, we are all for animal protection, but I wanted to warn you of another problem that has arisen so far. In fact, all municipalities and cities did not participate equally in costing, so the burden fell most often, most of the burden of paying shelter costs to those cities that actually contracted with shelter. And all the other local self-government units practically used the shelter services but did not justly participate in it. And there's another problem that, which is related to this chipping control, so all unscrupulous dogs, so those who aren't under control practically their owners knew how to leave them and leave such dogs at the shelter, so they were being led as dogs by the local unit, which actually pays for the shelter. So they created an extra load to that unit because no dog says where it came from if it wasn't chipped. Thank you very much. I think that's where we should find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42717	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42718	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelkovac, I agree with you and with what you said. However, this may well be the moment to see little, this law also has those infringing, or criminal provisions. And there he says that a fine of 1,000 to 2000 kuna will be fined, so those fines go somewhere up to 50,000 kuna, I think the maximum penalty. It would be very convenient to see at one opportunity you know we are also talking about regulations and that we should also see the effectiveness of the rules, so it would be convenient to see at one opportunity how much punishment was actually charged, how much it really is based on the fact that someone did not really comply with the law, who charged it, and what part of the budget it went to. If something is done by municipal directors and they are employees of municipalities and cities then it should be complex and so there is a part of the penalties they can charge and that goes into the budget of local self-government units, it probably wouldn't be a big part but something could be done from that. So we're also the same part of the law when we're all reading, then we just ignore it a little bit. So there's also this part that's talking about criminality, I think the biggest 50,000 kuna for various violations are different penalties. And at one point, it would be good for the proposings, i.e. the resolution ministry, to see how many penalties were imposed, what was charged, and that those penalties would go to local self-government units where the offence was committed and something could be done. And it might be one newspaper and thinking in the laws that we have in the future because if employees of these municipalities and cities are already doing something, then it would be convenient for it to be there. We, when we were doing regulations from the area and construction all those jobs that we said were done by municipal directors, were defined to charge fines to go into their budget. This, then, depends on how much the budget will be, or always, the captain or mayor can see little on how a certain municipal director does his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42719	Thank you, too. Mr. Tulio Demetlik is looking for a replica, he's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, I fully support your debate, and surely this law is a major step that has been made I will say by the promoters because we have had pressure from outside but also from associations, countless associations in the Republic of Croatia that help with their work and effort to take care of these abandoned animals through shelters, nutrition and so forth. And I'm sure we also welcome from the IDS Club that this law is being implemented through two readings because we're going to have a chance at amendments. However, about what I may disagree with your assessment, you said the law would be better implemented. The law will certainly be good but it is questionable to implement this law and precisely for the very reason that you yourself have stated how the units of local self-government will implement it. Most of us here have debated us exactly in a way that lacks financial resources. And so far, certain units of local self-government are exactly what I'm going to say is the goodwill of the leaders have found a way to reduce the number of these abandoned animals by financing the sterilization of these abandoned animals, I'm going to tell you especially the cats that have been mentioned whether they are wild or domestic because they are really creating a problem especially in the old town's cores where they reproduce uncontrollably and then over the summer it's a mess, that we're not talking about scents and additional cleaning and investing units of local self-government, so maybe one of the amendments that will be directed is certain to allow units of local self-government to implement through their regulations. that sterilisation is introduced as mandatory for these abandoned uncontrollable animals and thus will reduce the pressure towards fostering i.e. to take care of these animals. The fact is, what you said, that communal monks are doing everything today. I made a joke, so I said my nose and mail, to this when I should, or to be home masters and unit of local self-government, especially those less, simply don't have the opportunity to finance additional labour in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42721	Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42722	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Demetlika, right, with what's here, you were the mayor of a town that I'm guessing, you still had a chance to do part of the job. However, I have indeed seen through my work the municipalities and cities and their budgets where they have barely managed to satisfy the minimum, and surely that, somehow, the problem of animals will only come at the end, before they will have to maintain roads, before they get some investment in asphalting, before that something else will come. And to me, this law was really a good-looking subject to point out that problem a little bit. So, I think we can all stand up here and advocate decentralisation, but decentralisation is not just decentralisation of work, decentralisation must be decentralisation and money, so also financial opportunities to give the municipalities and the city what they have jurisdiction to do that they can actually do. This law is a good law, so there's going to be some amendments but I think it's in the discussion, some of the topics are set up, so I guess the Proposer's going to see a little bit of this debate, so maybe something that's acceptable and built into the law. And it's a good law, and it's really a step up, and it's no accident that the associations that have praised the law for protecting animals. However, in order for the law to really be lifelike, to be applied, not only to be good so that we can boast that we have a good law on paper, we must really take care of these financial resources that are needed to implement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42723	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I congratulate you on your first session, right? And it's not? [[No, it's not the first.]] Second. I didn't see I welcome the Secretary of State. [[Intruder Radin: They'll find out that you haven't been twice.]] Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, I would disagree with you on the communal order, you were quite fierce, critical. In fact, I agree that there is a part of the jobs that community directors may need, but a number of jobs that community directors do and can do are not necessary, you said, parking cars on the green surface or not, these are things that they can certainly do with that professional equipment. And secondly, I don't agree with you to throw out our traditional competitions. You know, I'm from the Dalmatian Burn, so-called. Vlaji up, it was our main party, our old folks' activity, and it's not, you know, not Spain, it's not bull killing, it's free will. So we could ask the question and people, you know boxing is much more dangerous and rigorous or some of our martial arts that we can also interpret that we're pushing them for money, right, to compete there, and fight, kill, see how many dead boxers. But it certainly can't be identified by some of the bull killings that are in Spain and some of the countries that deal with it. And then you know, if you kill the customs, you'll kill the village. We've already destroyed the poor village completely, but this is a motivation for people to grow bulls. Because those bulls are grown, those bulls don't train to fight like dogs, it's free will of their own, if you're the film "Sonja and the Bull", I hope it is, it was an interesting movie, so you could see there that some bulls don't fight at all, these come in there and if they think it's not smart to fight, then they both pull back. So it's no dangerous thing. I know you citizens think that, you who are less of a village, but here you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42725	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42726	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, there's no point in us getting along in everything, the point is that I'm different, and that's why we're discussing that you're thinking one thing, I think another, I've seen recently was on one television, anywhere in the back of a Dalmatian mountain where these horns seem to be something with them, and everything else, so it turns out, well, maybe I'm talking. It seems to me that I'm not even sure how strong a tradition is, but something to think about, so we can adopt or we don't have to. It seemed to me like it would be good, but something really is for discussion, the alky around the communal directors, believe me, I'm right. So, it's not that they have medium professional equipment, but the point is, these people have been in a Renaissance that understands everything, so there's no way that one communal director understands it all together. And that he deals so differently and that you can hire 10 different people in a relatively small town is impossible. So it really needs sensitivity, to see what jobs we need to give them and which ones we don't, because it's really our tendency when we don't know what it's going to be, they just can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42727	Thank you, too. We're going to the club debates now. The first is Mr. Milorad Batinic, the club of representatives of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this bill, though in its first reading, but I believe that it is such an integral perhaps with a few amendments, so that it can be supported even if it is in an emergency procedure, because we consider this a qualitative step primarily in order to protect animals and it is prescribed and in a very good, quality way are regulated less, more all areas. So I don't have on the scale of the matter a fundamental observation, so I'm going to use a part of the debate to talk about what might possibly be in the application of that law in understanding this law could cause certain dilemmas and doubts of those who will have to participate in its implementation. And I'm also going to look back at some of the amendments that we believe, and all the MPs get from the Animal Protection Association. I'd like to start with Article 3 first. This law applies to all vertebral animals and now, pardon Article 3(4), this law does not apply to hunting and game management. And there was now proposed one amendment except to be applied to cats and dogs in the hunting grounds. We need to understand the Hunting Act, which is the hunting ground, its distance from the settlement, so 300 meters, I think it's a radius where you can't shoot. However, the status of the cat and dog themselves, specifically within the hunting grounds, are predators. So I'd like to ask the secretary of state that in some ways we can do one thing and call it an additional clarification. I believe for the sake of understanding and those who have submitted amendments to whether there is any other way of removing dogs, the cats that are in the hunting grounds. We're very well aware, we're aware of what damage especially during a certain period of time, so when there's a lot of cubs, whether it's a rabbit, a pheasant, how much harm dogs and cats can do in the hunting grounds. So, on the one hand, we're protecting, on the other hand we're aware that dogs and cats will do damage in the hunting grounds. Furthermore, there was a lot of speech and controversy whether it was a tradition, whether something was a tradition. Of course, we all have to start from the beginning. The man first hunted animals to domesticate them, subordinated them to his needs. They were his source of food, a source of tow and, of course, the dog was like the first to be his first and best friend. Thus, in this part of Article 5(5), it says to train animals other than traditional bull competitions, to participate in them. This sounds correct to me, and that tradition may have been anew in the last few years. However, according to some studies, this tradition was not only in Zagora, there was such a tradition in all those areas where the popes, i.e. the oxen, were the main strength, or animal strength, of the drawbar. It was a tradition, but perhaps not in the form as it was popular today to go into traditional. So I'm saying there would be if there were to be more detail about certain restrictions in terms of animal or bull protection or whatever. In addition, the same Article 5 paragraph 31 applies to the use of equidae for the extraction of logs from forests except in difficult accessible areas where this is not possible without the use of equidae. I would suggest that I suggest that the board be added to the hooves. Pupkari, why the hooters? Because there are still parts, there are very rare, but where with the steering strip you're also taking out either the cream or the rent of the logs. Also, the fact is that the oxen are not put on sables, but in another way they are drawn out warm, so they are also in the status of Samaritans. This part is the same correction of the nomotechnical nature. So the extraction of the troops isn't Samaritans, they're renters. And bringing out the heat is a single woman, or Samaritans. Just one nomotechnical correction. Now, analogous to that, the same amendment is forbidden to organise the horse's withdrawal contest. I'm not generally forbidden in terms, but certain restrictions on whether or not it's written in this section to even two tons. I mean, it's a little bit still I'm taking for granted, it's my profession in a way. I've had my working life to see live, to participate in both the Samaria and the horse rent. I know how many horses he can pull, which he's sneezing, what kind of terrain two tons could pull a couple of horses that's an honor. No ox was burdened with such loads, so I wouldn't want to mystify or raise my reputation over some things. But I'm saying, that's where I'd suggest if it was prescribed, I wouldn't ban it from traditional stuff. Because it has been said and I support it, we try to keep people in the country through rural development measures. Let's not take away some things that they're not only traditionally bound to, but also emotionally. And let's not forget what he once said better to make the village extinct than the customs. But the people of our village are dying out. And let's just leave some of the events that are going to happen and certain generations that have moved back from our villages. I think it could be this kind of thing. But I am absolutely inclined to suggest that certain restrictions are prescribed experienced normatives. There are standards in Croatian forests. For these things, I suggest that you may be more informed about it. Furthermore, a lot has also been mentioned, and I would also briefly like to look back, and for the very reasons of implementing certain legal standards that I absolutely support, because this law will be very difficult to implement if there is no synergy between national, regional and local environments. First of all, I'd have the intensity to educate the citizens themselves regardless of whether they have pets, whether they don't. Do they have pets, don't they? However, that this should be done parallelly and initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture, primarily, not only that these things are in associations, that those initiators are primarily education. Education in a way that raises awareness of the need for care and protection of animals. So I believe that, over a period of time, certain of course, that would be results, that there would be fewer stray dogs and that, finally, the cost of both citizens and local self-government would be much less than it is now. Yes, I agree that local self-government is required to participate, so Article 63, on the other hand, which speaks about the obligations of units of local self-government, and I will repeat what was said today, it was, it will be difficult to implement this law in all units of local self-government, although there is the possibility of reaching agreements with veterinarians etc., etc. However, given the financial strength of certain units of local self-government, but also for the sake of the organisation itself, my proposal was on the board, I will repeat it here, to care for shelters, asylums, so to the abandoned animals, to worry about taking over the regional administration. And local self-government, as acceptable as this will be, based on the number of inhabitants in its area, that it is paying into one single budget, means that, through the administrative department, the county budget, is completely irrelevant as it will be and that the county is taking care of it. About shelters, but also the unit of local self-government based on population numbers because it's some sort of analogy is one man, one dog, one cat, maybe it's unacceptable to someone, but let's start with some attitude and based on going and financing. Also my proposal was on the board, I'll repeat it here, the city of Rijeka. 100 and how many thousands of people or more, the town of Split 200, so it is unacceptable that Split-Dalmatia County has 1, according to the logic of things, and I think urban environments are not immune to the number of stray dogs and cats, but rather the opposite. On the contrary. Usually, the accent is placed on rural space, smaller cities, less environments that there are more animals to take care of, so that it is recommended, of course, to be consulted, to see certain statistics, to build, an example of a size greater than 60, 70,000 inhabitants or 50, to form asylums on their own for animals, and the county for other units, municipalities and smaller cities. But I'm saying these are suggestions for thinking, and I'd like to think about it a little bit more. The powers of the communal director, so here I can agree with my colleague Mrak-Taritash, although there is much more to what municipal directors do and what they do with the law, not to get away from work, but I would first of all bring here a question for certain activities, actions, which this law foresees that municipal directors must do, the question is education, the question is expertise. It's a matter of expertise. You don't need to run away from it, because no one's running away from the communal order, from the local self-government unit that the communal directors won't work. However, how qualified they are for certain types of business they are given. We've got vets, we've got veterinary stations, someone's gonna say, so it's private, why not. Well, these are the people who are facing it. If he's a vet or a vet, people know the job. And the local self-government unit can make a deal for certain activities and it would have to be concluded with him. Furthermore, there was, I am primarily saying this for the reason that Article 95 to 30 June, units of local self-government are obliged to ensure that the implementation of mandatory micro-chip dogs of a specific veterinary regulation is monitored, in the possession of a dog whose dogs are not listed in the pet register. Now that's the question, how do you do it? How do you do that? I remember, I remember actually when my late grandfather told me, it was a long time ago for the old Yugoslavia, that they were hiding, he had two dogs, he hid one, and the other was paying taxes. Nothing has happened since then, and I'm going to say 70, 80, 90 and 100 years have changed into the mentality of our people. I'd even say there are irresponsible individuals today. So the implementation of this will be very, very difficult and very slow. What I would also like to say, I say, we have no dilemma in supporting the law, but very interesting on page 6 is the sources of the necessary means to enforce the law. And when you look at that data, financially, they may be retained budgets, and they're not something, but when you bring it down to 21 County, so when you bring it down to the number of units, it's not. Let's say for sure, it's 21 a year shelters cost 11.5 million kuna. Well, that's not something. But setting up how much it costs, constant care, plus work, so there's a lot to be added to that. So I say, I suggest, absolutely, we will uphold the law, but here's the secretary of state, you will have written down these remarks from all of us here. More or less, I think we've all said the point and I'd like to think about it and try to do another reading, to appreciate these things, to think about it, and I believe that if they won't be respected, that we'll get an explanation for what reason they're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42729	Thank you, Mr. Batinic. You have one replica from Mr. Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42730	Mr. Vice President. Mr Batinić agrees with you that we cannot place abandoned dogs in the settlement and abandoned dogs in the hunting grounds under the same denominator. These dogs in the hunting grounds de facto are crazy and they are predators and at that point we must very well distinguish these two laws of the Hunting and Animal Protection Act and we cannot unilaterally accept amendments to only one interested group because they certainly do huge damage to that moment in the hunting grounds. And I'm saying, one side is one story, the other is the other, and it really needs to be figured out how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42731	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr Batinić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42732	Thank you. Well, I believe my colleague Križanić is not just you, but everyone here agrees. We don't need to do a very sharp distinction, the difference is what, but we need to make a difference again and we need to respect the Hunting Law, we need to respect it because you're going to ask hunters how much damage cats and dogs do to them in the hunting grounds. Especially in that coverage where there's no hunting-economic surface, and the gamer is so intelligent that it's there right in the hunting period and during the hunt, and there's a space for stray dogs, cats, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42733	Thank you very much. Mr. Predrag Matic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the beginning, I will say that the SDP club will support this law and for several reasons, the law is good, the law is implemented in two readings and any shortcomings if they show up through the amendment we will fix it. With this law, we become the country with the best legislation in the area, and that is also something to praise. I also commend a quality public debate with 1300 different proposals and additions of which almost a thousand were respected, this should also be commended. Whether or not the role of animals in people's lives should be particularly highlighted. They serve us from diet to help with work and health care, down to socializing, can also be done in reverse order. Since a lot has already been said by colleagues in the debate, they will probably say a lot more by the end of today’s session, I will just list a few things that we support in such a tax. So the ban on dying after 60 days, the control of the reproduction of pets, the recording of pet owners, the registration of all breeders, for holding more than 20 dogs or cats the conditions should be as in animal shelters, the obligation to microchip and castration. Each county adopts a programme to control the populations of abandoned dogs, and this law ensures that the population is educated. However, I would refer especially to two points of the law, one would be particularly commendable, and one would be criticised. So in Article 5, paragraph 31 speaks of which samaras, here is a colleague who also said those renters who pull out those logs, so I didn't know if you had the opportunity to see a documentary, it's something terrible that these animals are exposed to, and I commend here the legislator's intention to limit it only in those cases where it's necessary for an animal to help a man, but in all other cases where a tractor, truck, fork, loader should spare animals and suffering, and I also support it. What you would point out as one criticism, although some colleagues here did not say that, but supported, so Article 5 also mentions in paragraph 2 the competition of horses in the tow logs, popularly called in some landscapes of sleaze or scapariades. I think it's wrong, I think we've overcome what's been said here, let the village die, but not the custom. I think it's still something that's exaggerated. We can classify horses as well as cattle at various fairs, we can determine which is better, bigger, nicer, and we don't have to prove that in impossible conditions when it's even a little bit more glamour on that whole story, so when those in the mud wolf two tons in order to enjoy and enjoy it, my recommendation would be that those organizers take on these logs and I assure them that the people would enjoy it even more and they would find it very interesting to look at it that way. So things can change, this is the 21st century, and it's mentioned here and Corrida in Spain that has a centuries-old tradition, but still some of the provinces in Spain are going to end these things. I'd like to and I suggest, through the amendments, we're going to give that concept of tradition, so it's the same strange thing, or it's going to meet exactly those who want to do it. So tradition is, let's say, if something's been going on for over 50 years, but we know that the tradition of this kind of competition is pulling back 10, 15 years, and it's not a tradition, it's a classic and traditional animal torture. We will, of course, submit several amendments between these two readings. And to end up making a little joke, we're going to make a few amendments, and I'm sorry there aren't any colleagues here, but we're not going to ask for the inclusion of the antifascism tradition in that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42735	Thank you very much. There's no replica. Mr. Marko Sladolev on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, Marco.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42736	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I am glad that, almost all clubs have praised the law. And here's a little commendation to former Minister Davor Romic who participated with you in the draft of that law. It doesn't matter to us which minister was doing the law, it's important that the law is good. I believe the law after two readings will be even better. I'll make the club's praise for the law which is good in law. My colleagues will bring up some amendments after me. Here is the first provision of a new Law on the Protection of Animals that has been spoken, which has caused the greatest enthusiasm and satisfaction, in public, is that the cease-killing of dogs in shelters, which, apart from correcting injustice and saving animals, brings many other advantages because it will encourage shelter to advertising and fostering animals. The new law adopts stricter and new criminal provisions and will now sanction and irresponsible citizens as well as institutions, cities, counties and responsible persons for not implementing the law. The information centre remains as a commitment but is now being introduced as part of a pet register that runs a competent body, which is very important because it will prevent some dogs from ever ending up in a shelter. The new provision is that each county must have its own shelter. The current shelter does not have Ličko-senjska, Brod-Posaviska and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It is also an opportunity for the minister to order mandatory castrations in areas that have many dogs as if he could also do so by a veterinary inspector for individual cases. The proposal also brings novelty, which is that each county brings a control programme, a population of abandoned dogs and delivers it to the competent authority for assessment. The powers of the communal directors are being extended and the establishment of the animal office is being imposed as a logical sequence of events, although the jurisdiction to enforce the law to the communal offices has been transferred since 2013 but is now even better defined. The obligation to educate the special praise of this law and to encourage animal protection has remained by law and is a very important item that binds local communities to the education of the population. The regulation on reproductive control has been tightened, although it already existed in the law is a little better now, more strictly defined and local communities can and should act on it by controlling and punishing irresponsible custodians and castration programmes. The dog marking at the shelter is now mandatory after 10 days, i.e. during or shortly after quarantine. Also one important piece of news in the law is the ban on permanent dog bonding. This is very important because after the decisions of Zagreb and Osijek, the emphasis is placed on the responsibility of citizens to ensure appropriate conditions for dogs. The law will prohibit physical abuse of dogs and psychological, chain - holding or boxing. The Veterinary Act is soon changed, so it is necessary to change the time limit in which puppies will have to microchip from 3 months to 6 weeks so that they can no longer sell or give puppies that are not microchipted. It is also a recent problem that there are many microchip numbers in the base of microchip dogs under which there are no data recorded by the veterinarians during microchips and such failures should be eliminated even when amending the Veterinary Act but this is the subject of another law, mostly the Most Independent Lists will support this law in addition to some amendments that we will submit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42737	Thank you, too. In front of the Club of Representatives of HSS Mr Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42738	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate, here's to welcome you on behalf of the HSS Club. And we will support the adoption of this law and express our satisfaction that this law has come into debate and into first reading. And here we bring greetings to most members of the field associations and different volunteers who have carried this burden so far and support this law and welcome this complex text of the law. We are most pleased and encouraged by the provision of termination, killing dogs in shelters because this law corrects the injustice that because of the irresponsible behavior of the owner, individuals paid the price by killing dogs in shelters. I want to publicly commend the units of local self-government who realized that it was unnecessary and bad and that they organized... shelters but I would also like to commend both these powerful volunteers and associations who carried the burden of such a way of taking care of domestic animals in shelters, nokil shelters and thus showed when willful, enthusiasm that and with little means can be taken off the streets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there are good results, so here is praise for the city of Osijek, good experiences in Međimurje and some other environments. And if not always everything in money shows an example that the city of Dubrovnik, which is one of the more financially powerful units of local self-government, has not been resolved in this way, so that it is not always all about money, but is more common in the organization of solving a problem. By this law we transfer the obligation to units of regional self-government and it is already said that the three counties have no shelters, including my Brod-Posavina County, which is not well and I welcome both the mayor and the mayor and of course the mayor to resolve it as soon as possible. And here I heard from a few organizations today, volunteers who took care of animals on the streets. Simply physically and financially, they can no longer urge this problem to be solved as soon as possible. And here is also the contribution of the debate that, since the first reading is still to think about the dimensioning of the obligations of the units of regional self-government because not all units of regional self-government have the same number of local self-government units as well as the number of cities and population so that the number of 50 that is necessary for the shelter to have in each unit of regional self-government for maybe Požega County is sufficient, but for example Zagreb will certainly be too small, only one shelter. So it is also considered that until the second reading, the part would be consistent with the number and size and number of inhabitants and possibly whether projections were made as many domestic animals as pets in a given area, how much this capacity of 50 places would be sufficient for any period because at this very first moment, it is quite a good result of fostering animals from the shelter because these volunteers were trying to get rid of them as soon as possible, because they had no financial opportunities, the question of whether the capacity in the next period in our people’s empathy towards animals would be so great that this flow from the shelter to the foster home and in the future would be good, I hope that they would, that they would, that they would, in fact, have the capacity of 50 in some areas would certainly not be sufficient and certainly need more shelters with more places to accept them. Also, already mentioned, we pass laws, but they are not implemented because since 2004, the obligation to microchip and worry about the fact that more than 30% is estimated to be over 30% of dogs, pets, is unencumbered in Croatia, so here's the question of what do we have over 30% of unregistered cars in traffic? How would you treat that? I think we need to find ways and models to chip every animal, to know who owns it, and that everyone takes care of their pet. They won't be able to solve this alone by the local self-government units, and already my colleague Madyer said that through the communal director and others they mentioned, they won't be able to get rid of this until the end. We suggest that you consider including veterinary cells that have a concession over these areas, have veterinary technicians, have equipment, have educated people, so you won't have to educate a communal director, we won't have to get equipment and certainly have experience and already have through the ordered measures and incomes from dogs because they have an obligation to vaccinate dogs, so they have income, have the opportunity to get through microchiping revenues and I think that way you should consider introducing and veterinary services into this business. We also well envisioned this law the possibility that the minister could order mandatory castration in areas where there are many dogs, e.g. The mentioned Roma settlements in Međimurje and me in Slavonski Brod are a large Roma settlement if there is a problem of a large number of dogs that are not chipped, which are uncontrollably multiplying, but if we have already burdened the units of local self-government, we give them a tool, we also give them the opportunity to prescribe permanent sterilisation in some cases when the system is scheduled, when the ministry does not do so, when the veterinary inspector for a particular case makes it his own request either to the ministry or to this municipal or city council decision can make a decision on sterilisation in a particular area if a large number of animals that are not chipped, which are uncontrollably reproduced, so that here is the model. And of course, it has been mentioned already since we have delegated the obligation to units of local and regional self-government, then they need to be provided with income and should be initiated as soon as possible before the adoption of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and increased their original incomes so that they can carry out these jobs because I think that with all those obligations they have they will not be able to endure it. This is where my colleague Mrak-Taritash joked that the communal director was doing all sorts of things and that physically there's no other way to get there, so I'm going to compare it like this, you know who else is to increase incomes and do jobs and start doing things? Well, Tisak has forced his shopkeepers to sell both newspapers and other products and to have higher incomes, and what happened because of the crisis in Agrokor, and they've been blocked, with these jobs we're afraid we'll block our units of local self-government. Of course, we support other activities that the Animal Friends Association has imposed through the amendments, I agree in this part of the problem in the hunting grounds that it should certainly be observed differently, that it should still be regulated through the Hunting Law, but that we must certainly make sure that every animal has its own owner and appeal to us from small feet through education from kindergarten and school that the animal is our friend and that we often say that animals are our best friends, but the question of what they think about us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42739	Thank you, too. We move to individual debates, the first is Mr. Ante Babic. He's gone. He's hunting barking dogs around Tomislav Square. First Slaven Dobrović, you were moved up, I didn't see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42740	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So we have already heard the praise of this law, which is a step forward, of course many European directives have been implemented and therefore animal protection standards are increasing. So I'm not going to abuse time, I'm going to be specific. I've been given suggestions, of course there's still room to improve the law, so I'm going to bring two things out here for a little while. One is the study list, which is Article 30, which states the possibility of using animals for educational purposes, and I think the omak is left out of pre-graduate study, which is no reason to be, so there are pre-graduate, or undergraduate, graduate university studies, there is an integrated study, so that it needs to be done a little bit. Of course, the use of animals for educational purposes is also experiencing changes, it is settled elsewhere. There's a 3R principle, so where it's actually trying to replace that animal model with someone else wherever possible, where the number of individuals decreases, where the conditions for these animals' growth are improving. So we don't have to worry that there's something hidden in there. In fact, the second thing has already been brought out by colleague Mrak Taritash, so I have also come up with a proposal to take the animals after testing if possible and home, so before dying, if there is such a possibility, I would suggest it anyway. I think that's a good idea. And that would end this individual discussion of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42741	Thank you so much for your time. Now it's Mrs. Drago Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42742	Here you go. Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome Mr. Tugomir Majdak's proposal. I'd like to be here as soon as possible. This debate has gone a little longer and I'm glad, this is a good topic. This law is well-accepted. I see there's been a lot of animal protection here, and I'm very pleased to see that. But, of course, in the implementation of this law, many others and their participation and activity will depend on whether this law is successful. We're here a lot, this law is called the Animal Protection Act, but we can never separate animals from the protection of humans, from animals and animals from humans. We first mentioned shelters. The shelters except that they protect animals, they definitely protect both people and we're aware of that and here we have provisions of course quite often when animal protection organisations are involved in these discussions they mostly mention dogs and cats. But here, when we talk about wild animals outside our natural habitats, we also use the terms of shelters that should be the first to hit how to, do we protect humans and animals, meaning when wild animals are found in some populated areas. Let's just say there was a fox at our side by the sea, a Kuna. When the sushi wolf descends, it comes to the highway. In such situations it will be very difficult in practice to implement this so that first we take that animal to a shelter, the question is where is this shelter, how do we get to it, then we're looking for a hunting authority. Maybe it's real that this third situation is gonna happen, and I'm not even gonna mention it right now. So I would like to point out that, let's say the inventory of wolves, the wolf management plan since 2015 has expired and we should work very hard on that because in areas rich and natural habitats, which include both NATURA 2000 and parks, we definitely need to think a little bit more about this. And then we included this story and the communal directors. I don't know how ours would get along, and they're hard to handle when we get a fox, a wolf. After all, those first hunters are coming to our aid. Of course they avoid that extreme necessity to kill such animals. That's how I'd like to say it. Of course, and as far as this law is concerned, we all noticed that there is a decentralisation of obligations not from the means, so we should think about it further. And here, I wanted to make these comments so I don't catch any lines, but I don't want to be long in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42743	Thank you very much. And you were summed up which is commendable. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic is even more summed up because he's not here. And in the end, Mr. Tugomir Majdak, on behalf of the promoter, will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here after the first reading of the Animal Protection Act in this House I will underline just a few things and in that part answer a few questions that have been asked whether through replicas after my opening presentation expressed or through this public debate. First of all, I would like to thank the individual exhibitors, as well as the representatives' clubs, for the general positive assessment of this law, the bill's proposal. I would also like to point out that in the context of the public debate, the public debates carried out, the good part and the questions raised today, a good part of today's debate, the Ministry of Agriculture already explained in response to a part of the public debate. But we look forward also to your suggestions until the second reading and we look forward to some constructive comments on the proposal of this law, the Animal Protection Act. I'd like to set a few things aside, which means we should especially highlight. Since 2006, the unit of local self-government has been bound by the law of that time and since then a commitment has been created which is today defined by this estimated fiscal meaning of the effect that is brought down on the units of local, regional self-government so that it is not defined by this bill. Further in the framework of the public debate but also a joint meeting with the Association of the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, the Association of Cities and the Croatian Community of Countys, we have also defined what we will include with the bill and what this means the provisions will be defined. And we delivered these, so to the organizations they represent, so units of local and regional self-government, we delivered the meaning of the bill. We have not had a single remark regarding this fiscal impact that will descend on units of local, regional self-government. Here is also the law transposing the EU directive, the EU regulation, and in that part here are your enquiries which have been sent about, so a regulation which the minister can adopt on castration or sterilisation that this bill defines it. And also, then you will define the financial obligations of this minister's order... By transposing the regulation, the regulation into this bill,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is defined as an option and as an option and it is enabled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also in the area of competence of the municipal director, there are prescribed obligations, which I return to 2006 and the law that defines and fiscal effects, has also defined the obligations of the communal director, and on the unit of local self-government to define the detour and way of implementing some, we are aware that certain units of local self-government are more successful and the existing law that was defined far away in 2006, so that I call on the obligations of this law to ensure that they are fully implemented as far as possible. As far as questions are concerned, as regards other laws that are not subject to this law, which rely directly on this law, the Hunting Act, the Veterinary Act, the Law on cattle farming. The Ministry of Agriculture is working on making new laws, will also be in line with the provisions of this law, and in that part I am also giving an answer to some questions and to a part of the debate that was focused in that part. And finally, the state of livestock, the stock fund, the esteemed representative of Buljo, here's the answer, he first asked the question, it's devastating, but the negative trend has been extremely negative in the last 5 years. Not only in the case of animal species, the kind of livestock of domestic animals, but also, which is still devastating in the part of the owner, means, i.e. agricultural holdings, the most in the part of the family holdings and this ministry for the past 7 months, both through the mentioned and new laws, and through regulations in most parts and activities, gives particular emphasis on the revitalisation of the livestock fund and on the development of future livestock farming in the Republic of Croatia. In this part, the possibility is made possible, this is also the esteemed representative Mr Križanić pointed out on the 2nd time, the implementation of the animal welfare measure, measure 16, under the rural development programme, which unfortunately the Ministry of Agriculture decided not to implement, and as of next year, the Ministry of Rural Development Programme changes will start implementing this measure, and on the part of the proposal of the Animal Protection Act, the basis for implementing this measure, i.e. basic standards, on standards, all of what agricultural economies will prescribe and implement, will be through certain types of EU support and payment. Here is another one for all today's participants in the debate, so the clubs, so in the course of an individual debate, thank you for the positive reviews of this bill. Also, if I'd forgotten, he's not here, Mr. Kajtazi, here I call for a meeting, Mr. Kajtazi, along with the representatives of the local self-government units, in order to solve this problem for mutual benefit and interest. Thanks again for your attention and I'll see you in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42745	I thank the honourable secretary of state, Mr. Majdak. We have one replica. My dear colleague, Dear Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42746	Comrade Majdak, here you have mentioned the measure 16 that we have not entered into the rural development programme although we have had the possibility of the European Commission entering it. If shelters can be financed from this measure, then the deadline given to units of local self-government should be in line with your activities when you change the rural development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42747	I thank you for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42748	Thank you to the esteemed representative, Miss Roscic, for asking. The measure 16 is aimed at payments which are not defined by investment measures. This is respect for higher standards than the basic standards prescribed by the Animal Protection Act and there is no investment support. In some others, whether funds, whether rural development programmes, are potentially possible. But more in part of other EU ESIH funds, but to this end, unfortunately it is aimed at agricultural producers, according to livestock holdings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42749	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Mr. Tugomir Majdak and Branko Bukovic Sosic, head of the agriculture ministry department for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42750	Proposal for a Animal Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 147. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Animal Protection Act 1 is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 119 votes, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42751	We move to the following agenda: - Proposal for a law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, first reading, P.Z. No. 144 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered by dispatch to the Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Is it possible that the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs. Marija Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42752	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciated parliamentary deputies and respected parliamentary representatives. During last year, the Ministry of Agriculture has on several occasions pointed to the existence of unfair commercial practices and sought protection from a number of agricultural producers and food industries and interest groups such as HGK, HPC, interested associations of dairy, meat, fruit, vegetables and wine, all in order to address the problem of unfair trade practices in the Republic of Croatia's legal office. Following the adoption of a European Parliament resolution on unfair commercial practices from 7 June 2016, the Association of Agricultural Producers within the framework of an HPC-based initiative, shall initiate the creation of a national legal regulation which will regulate unfair trade practices in the Republic of Croatia in the spirit of the aforementioned European resolution. In this regard, domestic producers of the industry pointed out most often those problems mentioned in the European Commission documents or in the European Parliament such as delays in payments for sold products, unilateral changes in contractual terms, sudden and unsettled terminations of the contract, demand for payment for goods or services which do not have a real value for the other party, charging of fictitious services, transfer of transport costs and storage to the other party after the place of delivery, forced participation in discounts or frequent actions, thus destroying the domestic market, imposing unconditional return of unsold goods and refusing to enter into a written contract. The existence of the problem indicates a partial and existing legal regulation through the Law on Trade. However, the Law on Trade provides for the resolution of recognised unfair commercial practices only in that part of the chain relating to traders. Therefore, the stakeholders of the food supply chain within the meaning of this bill are not only traders as in the case of the Trade Act but it is the chain made by the manufacturer, most often the producer of primary agricultural products, the purchaser, the processor and the trader. There have been significant changes in the food trade sector over the last ten years with the emergence of the supermarket that have caused different conditions and the structure of the food supply chain in the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, the strengthening of major chain trading systems has led to a significant re-shuffle of retail trade with a large number of small and medium-sized traders, which has concentrated market and economic power within a dozen large trade chains. In line with the strengthening of market concentration on the retail side, the emergence of unfair commercial practices is also expanding. Following all of the above, the Ministry of Agriculture developed a draft law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain to regulate relations in the food supply chain in order to contribute to the establishment of sustainable trade relations or balance between trade, agricultural and food products actors. In order to effectively implement and to comply with the provisions of this law with comparative practice and legal arrangements in other Member States which have settled this issue, the legislator has designated the Competition Protection Agency as the competent authority for the implementation of this law. The law prohibits the exploitation of a significant bargaining force by purchasers and/or processors or traders in relation to their suppliers by imposing unfair commercial practices. In view of the specific relationship in the food supply chain and the economic size of traders and the purchasers and processors of the provisions of the laws, the amount of total annual income shall be arranged, including the annual income of the related companies achieved in the Republic of Croatia through which the trader, i.e. the buyer and/or processor, is considered to be the bonds of this law. In this respect, the amount of total annual income in order to make the fuller coverage of the debtor of this law for a group of traders is determined as an amount exceeding 100 million kuna and 50 million kuna respectively in the case of purchasers or processors. By doing so, the bonds of this law have become 97% of the companies in the activity of trade and, to the same extent, those in the processing and buying sector. The law clearly defines all phenomena considered unfair commercial practices of purchasers, processors and traders. The law further provides that the purchaser or processor or trader may not impose obligations on the supplier which are not agreed in the written contract and the minimum elements of each contract shall be prescribed. The law also provides that an account or ransom block must be issued for each supply of a agricultural or food product. The administrative measures imposed by the Agency under its law aim primarily to deter the perpetrators and other persons from violating this law and to establish fair, fair, balanced commercial practices that protect all participants, especially those weaker on the side of the food supply chain. In this respect, it is established that the administrative penalty measure of up to 3.5 million kuna will punish legal persons for serious infringements of this law, a million and 500 thousand kuna of a natural person for serious infringements of this law, or a million kuna of a legal person for the ease of violation of this law with a maximum amount of up to 500 thousand kuna of a natural person for the ease of violation of this law. The provisions of Article 32 regulate that all existing contracts must be aligned by the end of 2017 with the provisions of this Act, and in particular Articles 4,.5. 9, 10, 11 and 12 relating to the obligation of written contracts, minimum elements and the determination of basic and other unfair commercial practices. The law is also part of the legislative reform packages, within the framework of the first reform priority, the stimulating business environment, the strengthening of agriculture, tourism and sustainable development, and constitutes an adjustment of the mechanism for preventing unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, or in the trade of agricultural and food products. In particular, this refers to preventing a dominant position in negotiating relations and regulating the market, sanctioning the imposition and transfer of costs, unjustly transferring the costs of one party, one party in the food supply chain to the other weak side. The outcomes of this law will have an effect on the change in trade practice, in particular the positive effects on the production structure of the food supply chain in relation to the other side, purchasers, processors in the part where they are suppliers of traders and market dominant trade chains. Given the lack of a single normative framework at EU level, this normative solution will have a significant impact on the segment of the economy in the area of agriculture and food industry in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in view of that expectation, the proposed law should be adopted in accordance with Article 23(4). The law on the assessment of fiscal impacts, so the proposer predicted that the effects of this regulation on the Croatian economy and its purpose should be measured within 2 years. In order to implement the law in the state budget, it is necessary to provide a million 360 thousand 628 kuna in a position relating to the Agency’s implementing body on protection against competition because, given the expected large and huge number of procedures, it is necessary to employ a minimum of 6 employees in the Agency who will all have a judicial exam, a detailed judicial experience and will not be able to participate in the work of different interest associations in accordance with the procedures governing the prevention of conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42753	I thank the guest secretary of state, Mrs. Vukkovic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished counterpart, Tomislav Liposcak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42754	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Well, right away, I must stress that I welcome this legislative proposal, especially through the prism of the area from which I come, that is, the Ogulin area and in general the Carlova County. In recent years, more and more unprocessed agricultural parcels, unprocessed agricultural businesses have been growing, and in general there are fewer people, especially those younger people who want to work and live in the country and deal with agriculture. I don't want to say that people don't want to work, exactly the opposite. The population of our region is extremely valuable and is traditionally connected to the country and agriculture and our agricultural products are recognised and known not only in Croatia but throughout the world, especially potatoes and our ogulinic acid herbs, which are particularly bearing a protected designation of originality at EU level. However, precisely the uncertainty, i.e. the inability of placements of produced goods, then very often the reduction of the ransom, previously agreed prices at the peak of the production season and the unreasonablely long payment deadlines are only part of the unfair practice of which people are rejected from the country, from agricultural production and then there is nothing left for them but packing bags and looking for happiness elsewhere in larger cities or often abroad. That is why I appeal to you both as a ministry and an agency that should in the future mean monitoring the implementation of this law so that this law will not only remain a dead letter on paper, because if we correct and abolish at least a part of these unfair practices mentioned in this law then we will be able to talk about this law not only from the point of view of the economy and agriculture but also perhaps one of the measures that will keep the population, especially the younger population in rural areas. And just as possible, as well as a certain demographic impulse that we like to talk about so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42755	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lipošak, for the replica. We have the next line, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42756	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, praise is worth trying to help the producers. However, honestly speaking to me, article 7 has created a confusion. Because if the manufacturer is in the VAT system, then the appearance and content of the account is prescribed by the value added tax Regulation. So this is all that's written here contrary to the law, the Value Added Tax Regulation. Even this term of compensation is something tax termology doesn't know. Therefore, if the agricultural producer issues an invoice, if the system is in the VAT, it is primarily obliged to stick to the Value Added Tax Regulation. So it's something that needs to be aligned with the rule because only the provisions that have been made are simply not so, it's clear who's prescribing and how the bill should look. The second thing, the 60-day deadline, so the definition itself, the payment deadline can't be 60 days from which day? So you have manufacturers who, say, produce strawberries and they constantly pick them every day and deliver the goods. From what day does the 60-day deadline begin? So that's defined by the contract. Does this take place once a week, once a month, twice a month? So it has to be clearly defined when it starts to run 60 days. So these are purely financial things that are regulated by lex specialis laws. And these are the laws of higher order compared to this law, no matter what this law looked like. Therefore, the appearance of the account if the obligor is in the VAT system must comply with the value added tax Regulation, if not in the VAT system, the income tax Regulation has defined what the appearance of the account must look like. And something else that I don't understand is the height of punishment. Are they in line with the Criminal Code? Because it happened not once, I'm telling you from experience, not once it happened that certain levels of punishment and those penalties are not in line with the law and then that law fell because someone filed a constitutional suit or anything, that law falls because not every lawmaker can determine how it fits. So you have a violation law precisely defined the height of punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42757	Thank you. Answer? Okay, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Not the end.]] The next replica is distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42758	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with Associates, welcomes you here at the HSS Club and welcomes that this law has come into the parliamentary debate, in the first reading because it has been waiting for many years and is good to be here today but the fact that we are late with this regulation, the fact that neither at EU level has been similar regulatory and good for the first time Croatia has shown its teeth and among the first to go into market regulation in a way to prevent unfair state practice. What this means is, it should best be shown on the example of an agricultural product processor who told me that he had to pay for the entry into the trade chain, so he had to pay for the rebates, so he had to pay for the shares, so advertising and finally the unsold part of the goods back, which says that he had set out about 60,65% of the price of his product, simply couldn't be covered and was brought into a situation to close production. The biggest problem is precisely in the production of milk and meat in the Republic of Croatia, so here are the examples of milk production where with 65 thousand producers today we have to some 6 thousand producers in the last year, a year and a half we have lost over 2,000 producers, I have been told today by associations of milk producers of the Republic of Croatia. Today, the purchase price of milk in Croatia is from 1.86 to 2.30 June, and you have on the shelves milk of 3 kuna. Over 500 million tonnes of powdered milk is excess on their EU market. And there's a real danger that he'll come to our market. This agency will not be able to control itself and the proposal is to control and through inspections continue to be closer cooperation of all state authorities, not only to be one control annually but to be continuous control of trade chains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42759	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vlaovic, for the replica. Next to the replica reported an esteemed colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42760	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associates, so from what Mr. Shuker said, from these discussions that will follow during today, it is good to know about these things because certain things can be fixed by the second reading, or they can be regulated. You said in fact that this law is part of a package of these reform laws in the area of the first reform priority, it is actually an encouraging business environment of strengthening and agriculture, tourism and sustainable development, which means that it is in fact a regulation of mechanisms precisely to prevent these unfair trade chains, a practice in the food supply chain, i.e. in the trade of agricultural and food products. What that means is the State Secretary, perhaps not all, which is the late payment for sold products, unilateral changes to the terms of the contracts, the sudden and unsettled termination of the contract until the conclusion of the written contract is refused. What is important, the stakeholders of this food supply chain in terms of this bill, as I understand it, are not only traders, like the Law on Trade, but it is actually a chain made by both the manufacturer and the buyer, the processor and the trader. And in the spirit of what my colleague Tomislav said, and in the spirit of this law, there is actually an effect on the change of that trade bang, which is very important and I welcome the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42761	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his replica. Next to the replica reported by distinguished colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42762	Thank you very much. And finally here's that this law is ahead of us, whether it's too late or not, now it's questionable, but better ever than never. Because so far the commercial practice of blackmailing the owners of trade chains who sold food products that were blackmailed by farmers who had remained in debt, who destroyed, who created their empires, eventually threatened to destroy the Croatian economy, and now we have to fight to keep these OPGs and small economies from these blackmailers and hope that the law will reach them, for what? Because of all the evil they have done for the Croatian state. This law is good and, of course, it is necessary in this first reading to look at everything that is positive and negative, here's a colleague of Shucker's said he needs some things to comply with the law, but the fact that for those of ours, which means suppliers pressured and killed them so we see what happened in Vrgorec, is a man, a young man who has already taken a chainsaw for several years now, drank out, is paying 6 kunas of peaches from the imports, and 4 kunas to him, our domestic top peaches and the man goes outside and the big fang has been drunk in the breed now, it's a sad tragedy and it's true and it's a very important problem means import lobby. In fact, I remember that from New Zealand, 10 kuna lambs were brought to trade chains, and I know that the pensioners were buying, while our Dalmatian lamb to a man below 10 euros is not worth producing and working. Therefore, this law is good but we need to look at everything and protect our farmers if it's not too late for manufacturers. So as soon as the law comes into force and applies to everyone, it's obviously not applied so far. Those who have destroyed the peasants are still palaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42763	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. We're moving on to the committee's reporters, do they want to take a word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first debate took place on behalf of the club...I apologize, however, on behalf of the board, dear colleague Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42764	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, the State Secretary and Associates of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 17th session held on 21 June 2017 the proposal for a law prohibiting non-compliance with trade practices in the food supply chain, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by an act of 11 May 2017. The Agriculture Committee shall be in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held a debate on the proposed law as a parent body. In that explanation, the applicant's representative pointed out that the draft law lays down rules and measures to prevent the imposition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Furthermore, by establishing the characteristics of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain by suppliers, purchasers and processors and traders. There is no doubt that a ban on the exploitation of a significant negotiating force, the content and the way in which contracts and contractual obligations are concluded is required. The proposed law prescribes the authority of the law enforcement body, the way in which the procedure is implemented and decisions taken, as well as the imposition of exactly criminal measures to establish unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. In the debate, members of the board warned of the difficult position of Croatian producers related to the inability to place agricultural and food products, and problems with too much importing them. The opinion was pointed out that it was necessary to install provisions in the law to ensure the placement of domestic products. It is pointed out that the prescribed period of payment for fresh products of 60 days is too long and that, taking into account the fact that it is available on a daily and weekly basis, it should be reduced to 30 days. The proposer's representative pointed out that, due to the EU's common agricultural policy, the EU's functioning contract, which the Republic of Croatia took over by joining the EU, could not be incorporated into the draft law by provisions that would ensure a market advantage for Croatian producers. The possibility of shortening the prescribed payment period for fresh products from 60 to 30 days may be discussed until the final draft of the law is drawn up. The applicant also informed of the launch of a coordinated action to monitor the standards of agricultural and food products on the Croatian market and warned of the need to reorganise inspection services and to form a single inspection body in the Republic of Croatia. It also announced the work on changes to the standard markets which would increase the number of fruit and vegetables to be monitored through a general and specific market standard. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose this law to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42765	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanić. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored counterpart Miroslav Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42766	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues. MOST of Independent Lists welcomes the fact that here we have finally seen the proposal of this law on the assembly benches in its first reading. We hope to see another reading as soon as possible. We don't think we're two, three months or a year behind on this law, but we're going to be late for years. I would just like to stress that 20 countries have passed a bill in the EU, which is a code governing this issue and that we have launched this job earlier. Some of the things we look at today in the Croatian economy, first of all, I think about the situation in Agrokor today would not be so difficult. The market position of producers of agricultural and food products operating in the food supply chain is one of the most significant limiting factors in the development of agricultural and food production in Croatia and this is something that our producers have been meeting for 20 years on this unregulated market. That is why I can say that as a club, we are particularly proud that the adoption of this law was initiated during the past government while the Minister of Agriculture was Mr Davor Romic. Our ministry experts and experts worked hard and hard on this law and fought against various lobbies. With this continued the current government, and with this position I commend. The example of unfair commercial practices that our manufacturers encounter is the suspension by purchasers or processors by means of non-transparent product classification when buying, where manufacturers meet to agree to blackmail and unilaterally impose buying-in and accounting conditions. After that, there is a non-payment, a long-term non-payment of purchased products on which the fact that none of the producers, or rarely any of them, are entitled to interest. And even when he has a right to it, he dares not charge it because he must meet with the redeemer again afterwards. At the same time, purchasers supply manufacturers with re-comparation for production, and charge consumers with interest until delivery of the product and, of course, as I said, do not pay interest on their debt to producers. In this way, buyers, through unfair commercial practices, make several profits on the load of the manufacturer and kill our producers. Especially here, I think of those small and medium though they too are in a very difficult position, but still much easier to survive the non-payment of 120 or 160 days. Furthermore, by selling certain agricultural and food products at dumping prices, I am referring above all to milk or meat with a view to attracting customers to the malls, disrupting the system of market price formation, causing a drastic decline in the prices of certain products, which is all markedly negatively reflected on producers who are not able to produce in such conditions. We therefore support the objective of this law, which is to regulate the market and prevent the abuse of the dominant position in the food supply chain, which includes manufacturers, processors and traders. Furthermore, we also support the objective of this law, which is to establish fair trade relations between all the participants listed in this food supply chain, which will result in a more favourable position for our producers on the market. It's about a law that will for the first time regulate trade relations in the food supply chain, not to repeat myself now, and I'm saying everything but what the secretary of state said. So far, we have had the Law on Trade which did not cover the complete issue and did not regulate unfair commercial practices. Because the Law on Trade refers only to the store of traders and not to other participants in the chain, and in addition to that, through it is insufficiently overcome by the fear factor, the fear factor, which is present through all suppliers, to which the European Commission and the European Parliament, in the debate on unfair commercial practice, in the food supply chain, have proved to be from where this factor, not only with us but in the EU. It is precisely because, as I have said already 20 EU countries, I have passed either a similar law or at least a code that regulates this section of trade, which is evident that, unfortunately, in Croatia so far, if we compare our behaviour, the behaviour of these 20 countries, there was no political will to address this burning problem. With no such regulation, our producers of agricultural and food products are far more unfavourable than their colleagues in the rest of the EU. We as a state can and must make sure that our farmers are given equal conditions in order to be competitive on this large common market. Key provisions of the proposed law are seen in limiting the sale of the final product below the cost of costing in production or below the purchase price, including the cost of value added tax, because we detected and also as a society, and as consumers, numerous examples of sales of foreign products at dumping level, which, of course, is a marked damage to Croatian production. Only this small segment would have a very significant impact on the favourable position of domestic farmers on the market. Therefore, the law will have an impact on the better market position of the producers of primary agricultural products compared to the buyers of these products, on traders, as well as on the more favourable market position of agricultural producers and the food industry compared to their position towards importers. The law will protect the entire chain from primary manufacturers, via buyers and processors to traders. And the final effect of this law will be a much more favourable position for producers on the market. In order to avoid unfair trading conditions within the meaning of this law, it prescribes a clear, form and mandatory content of the contract between stakeholders in the food supply chain, we think it is very good, because here we have had situations where the accounts, accounts, invoices of traders, contracts of traders and manufacturers containing 50... A variety of rebates, we can say free pens, which our producers had to pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say that we are glad that in this whole story, through the amount of income generated by individual traders or buyers, almost the entire Croatian market is covered, i.e. all the most important traders and producers. Also, what we are pleased about, what AZTN is involved in this law, AZTN is in one way, so I say in a bad voice among most traders and for a reason for them and it can be in a good voice with Croatian consumers. In fact, it is known that AZTN is a well-organised agency that gathers experts and very quickly determines irregularities and thus very effectively charges penalties, unlike many courts in the Republic of Croatia, and we think that for this reason it is a very good decision to involve them in all of this. Therefore, we think that the amount provided here for the cost of the law itself and the employment of new experts is minimal, in relation to all the good that its application will bring, and given the practice that traders have with AZTN, I am sure that very soon everyone will go into the application of these laws. In particular, if the level of punishment is taken into account, the penalties established here. As I said, this law, it is not a few months or a year late with it, but for years, we are glad that finally, someone dared to deal with these lobbys, I stress again, that the preparation of this complete law has started for the past Government and Minister Romic, but it should be commended that it continued and that today it is on our benches. As a Club Mosta, we are particularly proud of that fact in our discussions and we will support this law, we think that it is not very good elements, I think that suggestions should be accepted, of course parliamentary representatives that will lead to its further improved and we appeal that the second reading of this law, which, regardless of the late time, and today’s debates, is one of the most important regulations for Croatian producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42767	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Simic for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42768	Col. Simic, so you're stressing yourself that there was pressure on the suppliers, i.e. blackmailing suppliers from those who bought... produce and earn money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certain that I would be interested in the public, can you explain who worked here in Croatia? If Agrokor had participated in this, and as much as Agrokor is, I have information, many, of course, and many have already failed, many manufacturers who have been stable because of Agrokor's blackmails, can you tell me exactly, i.e., not exactly, but at least roughly, methods and pressure models. You said here some model, but what Agrokor did to those people essentially left empty Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora mostly, and do you think which should now have key effects on the team that would have key fair actions towards those people who are now at large, and who have made it possible to do what this law allows us to do if it was applied probably. So the most crucial problem is the people who made it possible and the structures that made it possible because they certainly had their own people in the ministries. I don't believe that the finance minister who was in Agrokor was doing a man's job that didn't know the key functions, that he didn't know what was happening to the suppliers for years, and before that he was even in the ministry high-ranking, it seems to me at the Ministry of Finance during Mr. Schuker's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42769	I thank my esteemed colleague. The answer of fellow Shimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42770	Dear fellow Bull. Well Agrokor was present in these relationships both as a producer and as a buyer and as a merchant. Surely it is a fact and it is known to every small and medium and large supplier who has worked with that system that they have certainly used their position as a large buyer and at the end of the great trader and have put pressure first through lowering the prices that it goes far below some normal profit for the manufacturer, and on the other hand by paying off their debts which, as we can see and the testimony of the manufacturer sometimes meant that you have to wait for your money for 200 days. Agrokor has thus done great damage to small and medium-sized suppliers. But what you would like to say is not just Agrokor or Konzum. This law will shorten or reduce the strength and number of foreign traders in Croatia who are using their positions in a strong way and treat Croatian producers as they should not apply in their countries because we have seen that 20 EU countries have already passed such a law or code. They have so far used Agrokor as they have used, or Consume, their position, and I am sure that if this law is properly implemented, it will never happen again. One of the guarantees which is why I believe that all merchants and buyers will nevertheless take care of the fact that AZTN is involved in this whole story known for its efficiency and the high penalties they charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42771	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished colleague Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42772	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the last ten years, the Croatian food market with the beginning of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has become part of the single European market and trends from the eu market have affected the formation of the structure of trade in the Republic of Croatia. By entering the EU, however, these trends in the integration of large trade chains of foreign owners are becoming even more pronounced. The unscrupulous fight for profit and profit leads to the situation that such chains reach for various ways of unfair and unfair games on the market, and one of these is an unfair commercial practice on the food supply chain, all in order to make fast profits. Among other things, such a chain of foreign owners of imports or imports into the Republic of Croatia without any control, goods of questionable quality, re-packed or re-selled before and by selling such food, destroy prices by domestic quality products, thereby destroying agriculture, domestic food industry and domestic traders, and extracting enormous profits from the Republic of Croatia. By taking over the eu directive, Croatia becomes a European market by entering the EU and is not subject to any border control. For example, by importing or importing meat from the EU, it is not subject to inspection from the limit of processing until the finished product of sausages or burgers, unlike domestic production which is subject to permanent inspection by slaughterhouses. This is how EU directives are prescribed that we have to take over by joining the EU, but no one is defending us from enhanced supervision and the cause of so-called. above standard especially if such occurrences are common. Only during sampling shall there be no discrimination against the individual entity in the food business. In accordance with the hygiene package, self-control of entities in the food business would be sufficient in these situations where they carry out the control of critical points according to the HACCAP system. I am, however, far more prone to food control by inspection services according to the level of risk prescribed by the competent bodies than self-control of meat that has come into the trade chain of foreign owners from the home country who are here without control and control of grinding, processing and installing meat products. I note that the possibility of contamination of foodstuffs of animal origin is precisely at this stage of processing the largest. Furthermore, it should be made very clear that food products are just the bait used by traders during their actions and attracting customers. These products of the retail chain lower below the purchase price and thus deliberately enter the red to attract the buyer, and then with other high margins which the customer fills the basket to offset the loss and make a profit. However, such practice is inadmissible because it puts pressure on suppliers of primary producers, but also on the food industry. We often have examples of action sales of groceries, for example, chickens from the Czech Republic at 15 kuna, but then domestic brands raise the price where such a domestic product becomes double unacceptable to the customer. They should therefore find the possibility of positive discrimination against domestic products on the shelves of the trade chains. Some of our neighbors have an unwritten rule that shelves have 40% domestic goods and various ways and inspections of such practices. Furthermore, traders form the ultimate price especially in shares with no sales costs, no added value, no VAT, although they account for the tax on the purchase price. A number of examples on the Croatian market are in the entire food chain, especially in the case of permanent milk, chicken meat, pig meat and other food products where traders form a retail price at no cost of selling, and thus permanently put pressure on suppliers to increase, additional benefits. For the above reasons, it would be good to provide for the prohibition of the sale of the product below the purchase price of an agreement on the added value of the additional statement of that cost of sale. These costs, for example, are 11% for the sale of permanent milk according to Eurostat. Costs of selling meat, milk and dairy products and fruits and vegetables are higher, around 26% and each trader is obliged to show them to the competent authority for the control of this law, the Competition Control Agency. Some EU Member States have prescribed selective payment deadlines for their semi-permanent food products on their laws. It would be good to include in the law the provisions of the maximum payment period within 30 days for fresh food products, fresh meat, milk, cheese, consumption eggs, fresh bakery products, fresh fish and seafood and fruit and for all other food products would remain 60 days. For traders, buying is a dynamic of the purchase of fresh food daily, week or two weeks, so it is normal to shorten the payment time to improve liquidity to a good extent in the primary agricultural production sector. All EU member states protect their own primary, agricultural and livestock production through various hidden and public subsidies. It is therefore the task of us representatives, as well as the Croatian Government, to take all the necessary actions to try to strike some balance in a huge difference in the negotiating power between small suppliers, processors on one side and large trade chains on the other. Unfair trading practices greatly deviate from fair play and impose stronger rules in the food supply chain and thus destroy small and medium-sized enterprises. This phenomenon has also occurred within EU member states since the start of the 2008 crisis and has culminated in the Russian ban on imports in 2014. Already in 2009, EU documents show that a solution is being found to increase the competitiveness of food supply chains because the burden of crisis and market disturbance has shifted entirely to manufacturers and consumers. I note that the majority, already said 20, of the 28 EU member states introduced various regulatory measures and mechanisms to address the problem of unfair commercial practices, so it is high time for us to do the same. The responsibility for protection against competition is given by this law to the Competition Protection Agency, which share an ex-post and not as HERA and HANFA acting ex-ante, and in this respect this agency is not a regulator but an executive body which is good. It shall be competent to implement rules which, for the purpose of implementing the Competition Protection Act, establish and impose penalties, so that it does not impose a criminal or indictment proposal but punish the infringements of high sentences in the first instance. It's good because we know that criminal court proceedings and then even in high criminal courts would last years or go out of date. In this way, the Competition Protection Agency shall impose administrative penalties, criminal measures and decide on its legality the administrative court and, in the second instance, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The penalties prescribed, the measures for the perpetrators are extremely high with the aim of dissuasive influence and balance the participants in food supply, hence the weaker supplier and the stronger buyer or processor and trader. It is therefore necessary to provide the Agency with 6 new employees and raise the budget for cca. One million and three hundred thousand kuna, which will surely be fully paid. The law further prescribes the conclusion of a contract between suppliers and buyers as well as rules of play in this relationship. Furthermore, the contractual relationship between the supplier and the trader as well as the legal consequences if the contract is not concluded and does not contain all the prescribed provisions. They are thoroughly processed and listed all possible unfair commercial practices in the trade of agricultural and food products, suppliers by purchasers and processors. Exposure of the debtor to the re-promaterial until the purchaser has no obligation of the same to the unpaid agricultural products. Receipt of receipt of delivery of agricultural products, payment of compensation to the supplier for kala, rasp or fracture. Payment period to the supplier for more than 60 days. Other unfair commercial practices in trade, agricultural products imposed on the supplier by the trader. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. Finally, I would like to say that this law is long-awaited and well received by the Croatian public, especially small OPGs. I am sure he will be well accepted in this House. It is high time for a second reading to come as soon as possible to achieve the balance and regulation of this problem. And the HDZ club will back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42773	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Parties of the Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia, Reformist and Independent Representatives esteemed colleague Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42774	Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Respecting the circumstances in the assembly and respecting your time and yours, I will not convince the bill, and I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said. So I'll be, I'll try to be very brief. In fact, so far there's been some kind of protection in the chain of manufacturing trade, now to avoid buyers, shoppers, processors, etc. But it's judicial protection. And our courts, em are expensive, em are slow and there was no luck, but there are what fellow Simic warned and you in his material, or in the bill, that fear factor. Sue me, your goods are no longer on my shelves. And that's the whole problem, and it's good to finally get a clear and loud warning. It is good that the article appears to me to be the 4th and 5th, 11th and 12th draft laws taxing on what is an unfair commercial practice. It is finally something that no law so far, nor the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is only principled, on the basis of which we could conduct the dispute, has taxed. He's talking about the end of the sale contract, but in this case, we now have a strong weapon that what we've already lost because we haven't had this law, we're just keeping the existing production and we're opening up opportunities for new food production. But normally, that's what we need an instrument for. I think you've well proposed to the agency that normally requires and certain budget funds, with qualified personnel that can monitor law enforcement, we'll have evolution done after two years, and I think that should go on a shorter deadline in the second reading. I don't see any reason why we can't do law evaluation after a year, law enforcement, I think we can and that's absolutely necessary. Now, what I would really like to ask you as representatives of the ministry, you will have to conduct the education of the OPGs, you will have to conduct the education of small, medium-sized enterprises involved in food production, related to the application of this law and their rights. People don't know because if they did, then I believe that neither by now nor by Agrokora nor by Kaufland, I speak by heart, I don't claim anything, nor by Lidla, nor by Interspar, and I don't know which other trade chains in Croatia, would not pay the fees for entry into trade, would not pay for the policy, for their goods in that store, would not pay for the advertising fee, the propaganda of their goods, and not even that catalogue or the flyer that the trade chain issued, and they paid for it. So they actually paid, paid, lost at the price, at their income, every price reduction, so the stock, what wasn't sold at the stock market, stays in the store. And then back to the old price, for that old price he didn't get the manufacturer anything, it went into the merchant's pocket, it's extra profit. It wasn't sold in action, that's clear. Therefore, there are a number of forms of compensation that manufacturers had to pay to either purchasers, or processors, or trade chains. And it's good with you in these four and five articles taxingly cited. In any case, if I do not repeat the Club of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatian Independent Representatives, support this proposal of the law in the first reading if it does not have the character of lex specialis, then you will have to respect these remarks made by the distinguished colleague Shucker, so there is time, only please refer to the appeal that you do not wait long with the final proposal of the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42775	I thank my esteemed colleague, Rechimir Varda, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, distinguished colleague Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42776	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Nice greeting to State Secretary Maria Vukkovic, esteemed fellow MPs, the long series is talking about this particular issue, has been warned about her and the agricultural and economic chamber, we are all witnessing a crisis in the largest Croatian company Agrokor, and I am thinking that right now it is the right time to change the way in the Croatian economy, that it is time to correct the existing disorders that today have the form of normal business. This law will certainly contribute to new practices and rules that will result in fairer trade and relations between manufacturers, buyers, processors and traders. This law refers to 95% of the sector of trade in agricultural and food products, and in the EU's survey on the same percentage, almost the same, it was stated that these economic operators were, at least once, exposed to the form of unfair commercial practice, which ultimately resulted in lower operating costs and lower revenues. Ten thousand OPGs were blocked, nearly half the dairy producers had to put a key in the lock of their stables because of their current operations, and many Croatian brands have failed. It is necessary to introduce order on the unsettled market of agricultural and food products, which is one of the basic preconditions for changing the situation in agriculture for the better. Consistent implementation of the European Regulation of the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, respecting the laws in the protection of the competition and the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, creates fundamental and legal certainty for primary producers. This is precisely the prerequisite for agricultural producers to finally put their focus on association as the most important factor of survival on the market. For example, there are hundreds of associations of fruit and vegetable producers in Italy, many in my Slavonia, but there is only one roof association in charge of negotiations with traders who negotiate better prices and terms of sales. I am pleased that the Competition Protection Agency responds directly to this Croatian Assembly, and that within two years the Ministry will evaluate the effects of this law which will clearly show us whether it was good or not, and I personally think it will be good, that it will be good and that it will arrange the market what is necessary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42777	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Mikulic, for this debate. We have one replica. My dear colleague, Dear Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42778	Thank you, Mr. Brkic. Comrade Mikulić, you have just pointed out that now is the right time to apply best practice from the EU. We young people had a chance two months ago to go to the European Parliament and to work and see what is the best European directive to protect those who are still here in this situation economically weaker. These are the primary product manufacturers whose process is much more sensitive, subject to great risks. On the other hand, most of us have merchants. Our colleagues also told us about Ireland where there are two, three major merchants who still have the opportunity to dictate some things on the market. And it is important that, as a state and as a ministry, we put ourselves in place, and as soon as possible, all the good examples of the practices that our European MPs are bringing at European Parliament level, we apply and introduce into our law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42779	I would like to thank my colleague Roščić for the replica. The answer, dear colleague Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42780	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of mine you've noticed quite well. We have a very bad situation and what I believe in and what I am glad to do is to apply these good practices from Europe to make it better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42781	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague Mikulic. We have another replica. Dear colleague Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42782	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my respect for Mrs. Secretary of State and her associates. My colleague Mikulić, I would just look back at the part and, of course, express my agreement with you on the part of your presentation in which you spoke about the nearly 10,000 OPGs currently in the blockade. I come from rural areas myself, I come from Podravina, so Virovitica-Podravska County, and unfortunately I am a witness not only this year, but last year, and I have painted a terrible picture where people in the fall are plowing out entire fields of kale, paprika, that I am now not counting, that I am not taking away the time of different agricultural products because of the fact that their products go first and foremost below all the price outside, that they are simply not worth producing. And I fully agree with you that the way we've had so far has just led to the failure of many brands, many Croatian agricultural products. And that, among other things, this law leads to legal certainty for many agricultural producers, and then also creates a basis for just joining small agricultural producers who, among other things, will avoid the situation of vigouring fields, that with tears and sadness in the eyes, so at the end of one production we go to say so in the years our agricultural producer faces impotence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42783	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic, on the line. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you're having a debate in order that if we're already passing the law, we can sort out what's bothering all the agricultural producers. However, we have a Law on the Protection of Competition which regulated an area that did not regulate it. And I'm afraid if these provisions stay in this law, knowing that these greats have everything from legal experts onward, and the producers are unfortunately unmanned, they have accountants who come to collect papers from them and goodbye. Quite legally uninformed, and therefore some of the provisions in this law, I think, should be brought into line with the laws that clearly define it. So the very definition in the law, the payment deadline can't be longer than 60 days doesn't mean anything. We have to define by what time. So that's one thing. However, what creates the most confusion for me here is this article 7 where the issue of an account is defined. So, given that most of these producers in the VAT system, most of them, are the largest part of them. Because in order to be able to deliver large trade chains, they're in the VAT system. The Value Added Tax Act and the Value Added Tax Regulation have clearly defined what the account must look like. The other thing is, there's no such thing as financial compensation. There's rebate, there's approval, there's anything else, and that term has to be used here. Because when you talk about an account account, it's first and foremost issued so that someone can charge their own, service or goods sold. This service, delivered goods or supplied services shall also withdraw and pay value added tax. Therefore, this account primarily serves to see how much the person who has done something must be charged, and later on there may also be a rebate on that account, can also be approved by the Regulation and the Value Added Tax Act is the precise tax status of that rebate and approval. Therefore, I think this Article 7 should be harmonised or only applied to the Value Added Tax Regulation, and you have solved everything. Also, the word “separation” does not exist in the financial dictionary. There's a break-up, kalo and a rip-off. There's no such thing as a split. You should put that in there. And now at the end of the criminal order. You have called here in line, because how the Competition Protection Agency handles this, and this law defines that six people should be employed by the Competition Protection Agency and do this job. However, at the Competition Agency, it is precisely written to you why this agency is being set up. Same in the IRS Act, it tells you exactly why it's being founded. Therefore, if we do not introduce the Agency for Protection against Competition that they are authorised to apply and enforce this law, be sure that the first sentence of these large companies they use and so each hole will use to say that you are not in charge of this. Also, if you look at the criminal provisions of the Competition Protection Agency, they are percentages on something. Look, you're leaving here a terrible big,... Right to the one who's in control and you say, no more than 3.5 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Pay 3.5 million kuna to a legal person who has 30, 40 billion traffic, but these big concerts or pay 3.5 million kuna to a small fruit shop that has an annual turnover of a million or something else kuna is a big difference. That punishment must be tied to some kind of total traffic or something. Penalty for legal and physical persons of a million and a half kuna. Any natural person who could pay a million-and-a-half kuna is in the VAT system and keeps books in double bookkeeping and has traffic greater than 2.5 or 3 million kuna and therefore, he is already in this and he pays a million-and-a-half kuna to determine whether there is a physical or responsible person. A natural person is your status to perform an independent activity. So that's where you have to define clearly who that punishment goes to. If you say he's going for a legal person here and you say he's going for a natural person. A natural person by this termology is your self-employed person, she has the ability to pay a million and a half kuna, then she would, as I said, be in business books, be in the system in profit tax and not be a natural person. So that amount of a million-and-a-half kuna for a natural person is simply disproportionate to these 3.5 million kunas. Or do you have to explain which natural person you mean, and also, which means easier or more serious violations of the law? You at the Competition Protection Agency when a fine of 10% of the total traffic is determined, exactly writes to you, calls for EU directives and exactly what it is. Now let's say, from all this stuff that's written here, what's easier, and what's more serious about breaking this law? And secondly, the implementation of this law by a legal or natural person who, in the sense of this law, is considered a redeemer. You mean here you define only punishment for the redeemer, and what if it's a violation, you can listen to me, please. And what if the offence was committed by the supplier? What happens then? For look at what is written in Article 25(1), a violation of this law, a legal or physical person, who, in the sense of this law, considers a redeemer. So you here, you automatically have a one-way sentence, but here are the two parties in the process. So contractual obligations may not be carried out by one party, may not be executed by another party. So you can't say about one. So, you've defined here, for which terms, when a contract is broken, the sentence is determined. Therefore, that punishment is paid by the one who broke the contract. You don't have to write that it's a buyer or a manufacturer. I mean, do you understand? I'm just telling you, at the second level of the IRS at this point you have about 20,000 items. You know why? Because of clearly undefined and unclear application of tax laws. And about the general pink law and the rules, you're going to practically cut. And therefore I would be pleased to make this law good, to be applicable, and to be simply feared by those who break it. But if we have a lot of holes in it, no one will, unfortunately, be afraid of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42785	I thank my colleague Shuker for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42786	Comrade Brkić, thank you, Mr. Schuker, for making these proposals, but I would just like to point out something, you said that almost, or that we can assume that every agricultural producer is in the VAT system. But here when I talk about this law, we protect the entire system and the one and that of the primary product manufacturer, then we have the processor, then the one that resells, so that very often happens, not only in this situation, the manufacturer, the processor, but that often trade chains or workers with a lot of farmers have some action, periodical or similar or certain specific products with a quality label ecologically, which are not sold in large quantities, and they establish cooperation although, let's say, OPGs, especially as natural persons, are not in the VAT system. So it often happens that the primary manufacturer of the OPG that is not in the VAT system and is working with the trade chain, and at the very moment when he is much weaker, is crucial to protect him, and he is not the one that is in the VAT system, so I think we will have to leave this situation, too, that we are not only referring to the Value Added Tax Act, but that we are also predicting these agricultural producers that are not in the VAT system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42787	I would like to thank my colleague Roščić for the replica. My colleague Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42788	Look, colleagues, these are the provisions of the Income Tax Act. And the Income Tax Act. If they don't either, then you have a so-called. It's a market cup. And the market cup is when one who buys a product, and that can only be done on the market, takes the product, since it is not in the VAT system, issue an account and on that account is calculated by VAT and he pays the VAT. So, they're bound to pay VAT that buys it goods. And those who aren't in the VAT system, and in the OPG, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're in business books and they're in accounts. So that's defined by the Income Tax Act. It's defined, so it's the same as your craftsmen, hairdressers, anyone else. They have a book of traffic, at the moment of fiscalization, they don't need a book of traffic anymore, they won't run it, and that fiscalization of the last 15 grand goes from 1.7. So it's all settled by law. Those laws that need to be settled. This law should only be resolved that those who take the product and also the services must pay within 60 days, the rules must be followed, the contracts must be defined by the kalo and the waste to which the damage goes, to whom it goes, etc. As you have, for example, you have a remittende in the press. And you know exactly, the paper spreads around and what's not sold goes back and exactly what's tax status of it is known. It's all defined in the law, and we don't have anything smart about it, we just have to call on the laws that determine it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42789	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Shucker. We have another replica, dear colleague of Anka Dark-Tritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42790	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, if I understand you well, and I think I am, what you have said in conclusion is that you would like the law to be applicable and you have also mentioned in this debate the problem of six employees who should be employed in AZTN, and they will not be able to be employed there because it is thus not defined in some specific regulations. Well, then there's a big problem with law enforcement. So it always says that good intentions, are good intentions and there is no one I believe in our ranks no matter how much now... but the end of a working day that will not advocate that we have such a law that we have as much regulation and that we do not have that problem. However, there is always the problem of implementing the law on the one hand, so that it can be as simple as possible, that we do not have dilemmas, but on the other hand that will implement them. So if I get this right, there's gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42791	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, I learned to read the documents I get in front of me and as if there was no other document to work on. So I from this document, and looking at the Law on the Competition Protection Agency, is defined there what they do. If we want them to enforce this law, we have to put it in part of their business. Because you can't because if it's defined that they're implementing the Competition Protection Act, then I know about the Customs Code of the Tax Administration, so I'm talking about the administrations that I've been in charge of for years, when we changed certain powers, we had to define the Tax Administration Act and give it new assignments. So I say I'd be very happy to do it, but I don't see it from this together. But with all intents and purposes, this can practically begin to work as God commands, because if we want to call a competition for six people, God forbid it to work with 1.1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42793	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for his reply. We have the final word State Secretary Maria Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42794	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament for this constructive debate. Here I will try to briefly refer only to the basic remarks which have been made, so I will say about the work on the provisions of this law in the commission were representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Agency for the Protection of Competition. The draft text of the law was also passed by the Office of Law and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Administration and in the section relating to the mentioned article. ... But of course, we will certainly check all the possible terminology of the fee, account content, administrative penalty measures of the delirquent agency and we have written down and we will check them all and if the text can be better, and probably we will try to correct it in cooperation with both the Croatian Assembly and all the competent authorities. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The period of compensation shall nevertheless be referred to in Article 70. The VAT law, but I agree that if it can be more specific, we should do it. Our intention was precisely defined on the rules of both the VAT and some other regarding those who are not bonds of value added tax, but we also witnessed that they apply for years, and we have in our hands the bills on which the two points of compensation remain and that no one has yet punished it. And our law regulates an unfair commercial practice that says no more charges for services or goods that have no value for the other Contracting Party and we believe that... But we're going to make everything right and I believe that can be better. [[She's talking too fast, she doesn't understand.]] As far as administrative criminal measures are concerned, they look pretty high. We've been told, and there's been a series of sessions that we can consider this and that's confirmed by the competent departments of law... The Agency for the Protection of Competition, implements provisions in a way which it implements through the Competition Protection Act, it is a matter of close matter if it is necessary to coordinate the section I believe that we will do so in time. As far as evaluation is concerned, the appropriate time is still two years because the existing contracts will take another half year to comply. At the end of the 60-day period, I believe it can still be specified from which moment it runs. Correction of a term such as a period of decay, of course we'll accept it all. Finally, this law does not go to a criminal court, we wanted the Competition Protection Agency to carry out the examination procedure and impose administrative criminal measures because we consider it more effective, more effective and we believe that... the perpetrators, although administrative criminal measures appear to be high in the law, are scheduled to have a 40-day deadline in which they can propose to remove the deficiencies and then, by temporary solution and control, will remove the possibility of collecting the fines. But here's what we're gonna see one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42795	Thank you very much to the esteemed secretary of state, Maria Vukkovic. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the esteemed State Secretary, Marija Vukkovic, for the reasons of the proposal, and for the chief of the sector, Mr Miljenko Rakic, and the senior adviser from the ministry, Ms. Snjezana Skakelja. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue the debate tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. It is up to the proposal for a law on the safety protection of maritime ships and ports, first question, P.Z. Number 143. I thank you all and have a pleasant rest of the day. Session interrupted in 19.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-29-0.u42796	Proposal for a law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, first reading, P.Z. No. 144. The motion is Government TH, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain 1 is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 120 votes for, unanimously, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
