ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55819	Dear Chairman, I demand a 10-minute break on the subject of disgrace, that is, on the subject of General Pralj's suicide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55820	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break, just because we're taking the heads of responsibility, we're choosing words, not like so far silence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55822	Okay. We have a break from 15 minutes to 9. Excuse me, colleague Glasnović, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55823	I'm looking for a break on the same question Mr. Pernar mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55824	Okay. We have a break until 9:55. After the break, we'll start with the vote. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] The first came to the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA and respected colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55826	Thank you, Your Honor. We've been told systematically for years that we've been silent and we're not talking probably because it's starting with the assumption if we're going to stick our heads in the sand like an owl that the reality that exists around us doesn't actually exist. After years of silence for more than 20 years, they surfaced to say deep wounds and to the surface was what was going on and what was not said on Croatian television. On Croatian television, there was no talk of what was happening in Herceg Bosnia during the war. And the Hague court found and the defence did not dispute that the crimes against Bosniaks were happening and what the political summit was being accused of is essentially that these crimes that took place were not only controversial but it was systematic to say their actions. And that is why the issue of political responsibility has been raised and the Hague court has declared the first HDZ president Franjo Tudjman, Gojko Suška and his associates from Bosnia and Herzegovina as responsible for the crimes. What's in the eye is that HDZ doesn't recognize The Hague's verdict as true and believes it's separate from the truth. At the same time, however, it does not question the work of the Hague Court, or its jurisdiction. I now want to tell my colleagues from HDZ and the SDP that it is not possible to accept the jurisdiction of a court rather than accept the decisions it makes. It is possible, for example, not to accept the court and its jurisdiction, resulting in his decisions not being taken. And I therefore conclude that the HDZ is to say that the disagreement with the verdict is hypocritical and dishonest. As far as relations with generals are concerned, and in general Croatian officials, we all know Sanader's famous speech from the Split Riviera where he spoke which country extradites its generals. And it is he who, along with Shakespeare, who is the creator of these nakaradan governments, which means he has extradited, that is, the order to extradite Croatian generals to The Hague. Some will say it's not the Praljak extradited he's voluntarily gone to The Hague. It's true. But why did he leave voluntarily? Well, he also knew if he didn't go willingly to end up there again, that means he had a choice of eclipses or beatings under quotes, the end was the same. It's the Hague Court. In the end, although media is seeing that Bosniaks are the only victims of HDZ politics or generals such as Praljak who drank poison indignant with the whole situation of the HDZ policy sacrifice are Croats themselves. So this verdict is not a verdict for Croatia, for the Croatian people, but for one policy conducted by one party. And that policy was equally cruel for Bosniaks during the war and for some other minorities, unfortunately. But also to those who exercised that policy, and later, like consummated goods or old rags, they were rejected and committed to the mercy and mercy of The Hague. But she is cruel to us Croats who now because of this and this kind of policy that HDZ implements, monetary, tax, budget and each other are simply in a state of severe crisis, severe economic depression and, unfortunately, a blow to the top, which is why hundreds of thousands of our citizens are being evicted. And the famous demographic sterc said that this wave of emigration now going on under HDZ is worse and bigger than it was at the time of the war, which means HDZ is much more dangerous to survive. And the survival of our people from the visible enemies outside that the media shows us. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55827	Second debate of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and esteemed counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55828	Thank you very much. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, yesterday's act of General Praljak is the cry of telling the truth about the Homeland War, telling the truth about policies that did not stick to national security, did not defend the foundations of the state that is the Homeland War, did not defend the Croatian truth about the victorious Croatian soldier. Is the joint criminal enterprise of 500 thousand people that Croatia from BiH received from Bosniaks here during the Homeland War? Is it a criminal enterprise where a Croatian soldier prevented Ratko Mladic from answering any charges of crimes committed in Croatia for the rescue of the bull's enclave of the butchers who would make it worse than it did in Srebrenica? Gentlemen, the six paid for the Croatian... politics, courting policies, the policies of forgetting our six in The Hague. General Praljak made this act as a scream to tell the facts of the Homeland War, not to be silent. From this Parliament, counterpart Pusic and HNS said there was an aggressor war going on. Ivo Sanader conducted the policies of Vladimir Seks, to arrest, locate, arrest, transfer, process the most prominent sons who gave freedom to the democratic Republic of Croatia, so that today those who called, who ignored, who in 2008, General Praljak, would have his book on the Homeland War, which he wrote tirelessly in The Hague to prove the truth, the secretary of the Ministry of Culture today's minister rejected as a ham during the politics of Ivo Sanader. We did not protect national interests, we did not protect the truth about the Homeland War while Croatia was being robbed, while the INA robbery, telecommunications, while the youth of Croatia was leaving, is the message of General Praljak. We must tell the truth about the Homeland War on the victim of the Croatian man for survival in these areas and not allow the theory that the Hague court has given due to the poor policies of Croatian court, Brussels and The Hague officials allowed to try to distort the truth. Croatians and Croatian soldiers are responsible for BiH, as well as Croatia. It is unfortunate, too, that our current president of the Parliament was foreign minister. I ask him publicly, what did he do during diplomatic relations for a six? Did he visit them? Should it have waited 2016 since 2004, 12 years for a minister to go to the Croatian defenders, General Praljko and ask him what he needed? Not the Hague tribunal, lobbyists with international and Serb and Bosniak and anyone to twist the truth. The graves will never forgive us. It is time to fight for national interests, it is time that in that cup of poison that was poured on by those who located, identified and processed Croatian heroes to tell the truth about the Homeland War, gentlemen of the HDZ, from the SDP, mostly we defenders of whatever political option we are in. Only in truth, with loud truth, with the scream of General Praljak can we preserve the Republic of Croatia and we must preserve the Croats in BiH. We have forgotten these people, this people who have suffered and has not fought for equality in BiH for centuries. Gentlemen. We must not only pour ashes but tell the truth and fight for national interests. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55829	Third debate, respected counterpart Zeljko Glasnović, on behalf of the Advocacy Club for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55830	... And the three of you called me yesterday when you were like when he drank the poison. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] If they found you, you wouldn't be sitting here today, you wouldn't be sitting here today. Half of these aren't here, they celebrate the day of the Republic, yesterday it was, they don't care about the Croats in BiH. And if those people didn't have HVO, I'd have to mention it, I'd welcome all the majors, officers, officers, HVO soldiers, and if they weren't here, we wouldn't be sitting here, not saving your syncures, your pensions, etc., if it wasn't for Posavina, Central Bosnia, northwestern Herzegovina, Mostar, we wouldn't be sitting here. Croatia would look like Cyprus today. Shame on you both and sit here and gloat. Yesterday, Praljak took his own life for his people and for the historical truth. ...is a historical truth because I've been there since the beginning I've been there, and you laugh there, and later we'll talk if you have something to say to me, don't talk there. Come out later, I'll see you. For historical truth, my friend, and what is the historical truth? for historical truth, for historical truth. [[/Intruder President: Please don't argue. Please be quiet.]] And this verdict yesterday, who sits in those courts? Those who killed millions of people in Indoquina and who is sitting there? A Chinese judge who's a de facto communist country yet, where people kill for organs. They share justice with the Croatian people. They have no moral right. What's to be done now? Those who stayed there should ask for the extradition of these people because it is not the same Norwegian prison and prison English and Spanish. In Spain you have Moroccans, sitting there, coming there, his life is worth 15 minutes when he gets to the bathroom he's done. That's what you should be looking for. It should be published for the Croatian people, all those who falsely testified against the Croatian state, from Mesic to the next, who lied. And whoever read the book here wrote a colonel of the U.S. Army called "War in Central Bosnia"... It was supposed to be translated and shared by these people here to see who attacked whom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wrote it for us. What was Croatian diplomacy doing? Why are we where we are today? This verdict de facto, de facto approved by the great Serbian imperialism, legitimateized this great Serbian imperialism, about it not being spoken here, not talking about the return of the Croats to its hearth, 160 thousand was driven only from the Bosnian Posavina, they cannot return. And what's going on? The propaganda against the Croatian people is still spreading, the court is lying worse, and what happened yesterday is the rape of historical truth from common sense. And what did the Croatian State do? What are our people doing now? Who's writing our history? What is translated into English and Croatian to bring this war closer to a general man outside? We don't have a book yet, we don't have a museum on Homeland War. We live... They're writing history to society and to us... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the other one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who handed over all the documents to The Hague? Thousands, thousands of documents have been submitted there, CDs. I came to the archives, the documents were being submitted, the Japanese journalist came from Tokyo and was available to him with the entire archive of the Homeland War and that and all documents from the HVO. If we don't wake up, we're free to say goodbye to this country. And now we need to do this demes control, we need to get together, and we can't forget these people, all said Mr. Bull here. Who cares about the return of Croats to BiH? Half of them are missing. What kind of politics is that? What about these, we're talking here today, who's sitting in the Parliament here? What about lustration laws? This is de Fato, the parliamentary representatives de facto extension of communism. There's never been a lustration here, ever. That's where people sit who don't know who attacked them here. Who attacked you here? That's where the people, the defenders, the homeland war, who don't know who attacked them and what we're doing here. We're worried here, we're discussing a lot here, what we're worried about, we're philosophizing here, and we've got a country like the former state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-30-0.u55831	We're done arguing. We're done, please, colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues, please. Comrade Habek, please calm down. We finished the debate after the break. But before, here I see a colleague of Bunyan, a colleague of Bulj.
